A friend of mine used to say, he said, My church may not need me, but I need my church. Appreciate that. Let's open our Bibles, please, this evening to Revelation 4. Revelation 4. Eleven verses in this chapter. I'm going to read the whole chapter this evening. And when you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please, and we'll honor the reading of God's Word. The Bible says, after this, I looked, and behold, the door was opened in heaven. And the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking with me, which said, Come up hither, and I will show thee things which must be hereafter. And immediately I was in the Spirit. And behold, a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne. And he that sat was to look upon like a jasper and a sardine stone. And there was a rainbow round about the throne, in sight, like unto an emerald. And round about the throne were four and twenty seats. And upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white raiment, and they had on their heads crowns of gold. And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings and voices. And there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven spirits of God. And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal. And in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne were four beasts, full of eyes, before and behind. And the first beast was like a lion, and the second beast like a calf, and the third beast had a face as a man, and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle. And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him, and they were full of eyes within, and they rest not day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy. Lord God Almighty, which was and is and is to come. And when those beasts give glory and honor and thanks to Him that sat on the throne, who liveth forever and ever. The four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne, and worship him that liveth forever and ever, and cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. What a chapter. Let's ask the Lord to help us tonight, please. Our Father, we bow in Jesus' name and we thank you, Lord, for your precious word. We well nigh tremble as we come through this passage, for we get the opportunity to look at a scene, Lord, our words fail to describe. Lord, as we look into your throne, help our hearts to be lifted up in worship of the one who sits on the throne. Lord, we thank you for the privilege to gather. We ask for your blessing on our time. Help both the preacher and the hearer. Lord, hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up the Lord Jesus. Oh God, please help them above and beyond Lord who and what I am, that Jesus might be properly edified, exalted, and set before the people this evening. And Lord, what you do, we'll be careful to give you the glory, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. You can be seated. In Revelation Four, we have changed address We left Revelation chapter 3 from Laodicea and the Spirit of God, the Word of God, saying, He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. And then we move in Revelation chapter 4, verse 1, and we're no longer on the earth. We're no longer dealing with the churches I've Asia Minor. We're no longer dealing with the people of God down here in their infirmity. We've now moved to a whole new scenario. We're living on a whole different plane. We're in a different scene, and that scene is a heavenly scene. We're in the very throne room of the Lord. I want you to think with me about it tonight. I believe this chapter pictures what the Bible describes in several different places. I want to read them to you, if you will, or you can follow along as well, please. But go back to 2 Thessalonians quickly. And I just want to read one verse, I believe, here, 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. I'm talking about these Bible descriptions of what I've just read out of Revelation chapter 4. In 2 Thessalonians 2, verse 1, the Bible says, Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. And by our gathering together unto him. There it is. Our gathering together unto him. Go back with me another book, 1 Thessalonians 4. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, and just let me go ahead and read this portion, verse 13. But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep. That you sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be, here's your words, caught up together. Caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words Go back to 1 Corinthians, please. We're still talking about what happened there in Revelation 4. 1 Corinthians chapter number 15, and I'm just going to read a couple of verses here. First Corinthians chapter number fifteen and beginning down in verse number fifty one Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible. Look at this, and we shall be changed There's your phrase. We shall be changed. Go back one more place or two here, Matthew 24. Matthew chapter number 24. And verse number 40 says, Then shall two be in the field. The one shall be taken. There's your word, taken. And the other left. Two women shall be grinding at the meal, the one shall be taken and the other left. Now, friend, whether you call it being gathered together Or whether you call it being caught up, or whether you call it being changed, or whether you call it being taken, or whether you use a word that's not in the Bible, but the principle clearly is the rapture. The reality is that this is the blessed hope of the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ and everybody who saves looking for it. We're looking forward to the revelation of Jesus Christ. He's not going to reveal himself like he did to John on Patmos. He's not going to reveal himself like he did to the seven churches in Asia Minor, which is the picture of the whole, but he's going to reveal himself in his home atmosphere. in his home setting, right at the very throne of God, and there is where God's people are going to be. Some want to squabble over the timing of the rapture of the church. Others want to parse terms and dissect every little detail. But my purpose here tonight is to remind you, don't lose sight of the fact. that the that one day the Church of the Living God is going to be ushered into the presence of the Lord Jesus on his throne, and we're going to see him for who he is. Thank God that day's coming. As we look into this chapter, we're going to find out what lies ahead. Now listen, if you're saved tonight, I'm reading your future. I'm telling your future, and I don't have to see your palms to do it. I'm reading the Bible. Because this is what lies ahead. My my worry is not when. That's not any of my business. Quite frankly, my Bible tells me not to worry about the when. It tells me to be concerned about the what. Don't get so caught up worrying about the when that you try to be able to predict things that's impossible for you to predict. Simply know this: that there's coming a day when the Lord will come. The Lord will come. I want to break this chapter down into four parts. The Lord helping us here tonight. I want you to see the timing. That's here in the verse, the timing. And then I want you to see the trumpet. Did you notice how many verses reference the trumpet? And then we're going to look at the talking because the talk the trumpet did some talking. That that trumpet had a voice. And then we're going to look at the throne, which by the way, the bulk of this chapter deals with the throne. The emphasis of Revelation 4 is not so much on the timing and not so much on the trumpet or not so much on the talking, but the emphasis is on the throne. Did you notice that we read that John immediately was in the Spirit? Isn't it interesting? He went from being in the Spirit on the Lord's day to being in the Spirit in the Lord's presence. By the way, how you're living is how you're going John John went in the Spirit because he was and immediately he was in the Spirit and the throne at the throne. And listen, it was because he's in the Spirit on the Lord's day down here. I think we find that emphasized in the Revelation all through its chapters, that there's suddenly coming a day when what man is, he shall be for eternity. We're quickly running towards a place, a state, where what we are is going to be set and sealed for all time and for all eternity. I don't know about you, but I don't want to be someone who's not in the spirit when the Lord comes. In other words, I want to be ready. Notice with me, if you will, the timing here. The first part of this verse of Revelation 4. 1 says, After this I looked. After this. Now, there are no words in your Bible accidentally. Everything in the Bible has a purpose. John could have just went on and said, I looked and behold, a door was opened in heaven. But the Spirit of God said, Now, John say this first, after this. After this. I want you to notice the sequence of this timing. What was it after? After the personal revelation on the Isle of Patmos, after the corporate revelation there to the seven churches. It was after this. It was after these dealings with individuals per personally and then i it dealing with the church corporately. It was after this he looked. It was after this. Friend, after Revelation 4, you don't see the church on earth until she comes back glorified. You're going to see that as we study together. We do not have the church on the earth after this point. Now we do see them coming back, and they're part of that great number who are on those white horses coming behind the Lord Jesus And yes, the the church will come back at that point, but the reality is until that time, until that uh juncture, uh the church is up yonder. So it was after this. I want you to notice the scene. What's the scene? There's a change here. As I've said already, we went from earth to heaven. We went from earth to heaven. We're talking about Asia Minor. We're talking about the church at Epsis, Smyrna, Pergamos, the church at Thyris, Artis, Philadelphia, Laodicea. We're talking about Patmos. We're talking about all these places that were physical locales that you could visit, and then all of a sudden John says, now I'm in heaven. I'm now at the throne. I'm glad that though I'm a I'm living on this earth, I've got a citizenship in another place. I've got a home yonder in heaven, and one of these days like John, I too shall be there. Thank God we've got that to look forward to. Heaven's not an imaginary place. It's not a a figment of the imagination. Beloved, it's the truth of Scripture. And it lies ahead. But look, there's a place. There's a place we're going to call home. There's a place that one day we're going to land on its golden shores, and it's going to be our abode for all of eternity. Down here you might drift from shore to shore and place to place and live here and yon, but there's coming a day where you're going to settle down and move no more. It's going to be your home. If you're saved by the grace of God, it's going to be that place where you can finally uh hang your hat, so to speak, and say, home at last, home at last. That's our home. That's what we're looking forward to. Notice the scene. But then I want you to notice the suddenness of all this. We go one moment talking about the church at Laodicea, and the very next, he's in heaven. Just like that. I'm glad there's going to be no cancelled flights when it comes time to go home. There's no there's going to be no standing by and a holding pattern. uh waiting, you know. Uh listen, friend, I I'm grateful that one of these days we're gonna go home and it's going to be, as Paul described it, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye. Buddy, it's gonna be faster than you can you can't speak a word that quick. The Lord's going to come. The suddenness. Do you see that? See the timing of it. I had a man tell me one time, he said, well, I I'm going to kind of wait. And he said, I know what the Bible talks about, the dead raised first, then Uh the people that are saved and alive after will be caught up. He said, What I'm gonna do when I see the dead raised, I'm gonna pray and get saved. I said, Sir You're taking a mighty big gamble. Number one, that you're going to be alive when that happens. Truth is, we all got an appointment with death and we don't know when it is It's appointed unto men once to die. But here's what we do know. We do know that the Bible again tells us, like Paul said in a moment twinkling of an eye, it's going to be so fast there's going to be no time to get right with God. He's going to raise the dead and he's going to transform the saved all in such a split second moment of time that it's all going to be done before you ever know what happened. So the time to be saved is now. Don't play games with your soul. We see the timing. But let's quickly look at this. Let's look at the trumpet. The Bible says that after this I looked, and behold a door was opened in heaven, and the first voice Which I heard was, as it were, of a trumpet talking with me. A trumpet. Notice again the sequence. I do not believe that things are put in the Bible accidentally. He said the first voice. Now he's going to hear a whole lot more. I can't wait to get chapter 5 when he hears that new song. He's going to hear it. And and listen, he's not only going to hear that, he's going to hear the worship of those twenty-four elders, and he's going to hear He hears like Isaiah heard way back yonder in chapter number six, he's going to hear those holy beings that circle the throne saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. But the first voice that he heard was a trumpet. Now listen, I have no problem believing That we will literally hear a trumpet. I don't have a problem with that. Now if you do pray about it. But all I know is that my Bible says that what John heard, he said, it was like a trumpet talking. If I'd have thought of it quick enough, I'd have got handy to give us a demonstration, and I'll tell you, you can uh the trumpet is one instrument, there's other instruments, but the trumpet is one instrument you can just about make talk if you know how to play it. And our brother does. I mean you can just about speak with that thing. And I I really believe that Again, it's emphasized what? Three other places? The trump of God, the last trump. It speaks of the of the reality that we're going to hear a trumpet. And the truth of the matter is, is that the Lord is going to summon his people. I want you to see this. What does that trumpet symbolize? All through your Old Testament. I don't have time. I don't want to get bogged down here. But if you go back to Judges chapter 7, a trumpet, mark it down and read it at some point, chapter 7, verse 20 of Judges. And Nehemiah does it as well, and other places in the Old Testament, a trumpet was used to call to action. Then I said, when we're building over here and the enemy comes, we'll sound uh a trumpet and everybody comes where they heard that sound. And we'll all fight the enemy. It was a call to action. Gideon said, when we get them all surrounded, you blow your trumpets, smash your pictures, let the light shine brightly. What was he saying it's a call to action Trumpets in the Bible always are a call to action. They symbolize a call to action. What's going to happen when the trump of the Lord shall sound? It's a call to action. It's a call to the saints of God to rise up and come home. Come up hither, as John said. Thank God one day we're going to hear that call to action. And by the way, there won't be no deserters when that trumpet sounds There won't be none turncoats and t and turn away and run. There'll be no individuals who will be AWOL on that day. All of God's little children will be present and accounted for. People get sort of tore up about this thing, and I I don't believe, uh I don't want to go on rabbit trail here, but I I don't believe we ought to desecrate our bodies like the heathen do. Uh I I believe there's a proper way to bury a loved one who's died. I realize we're living in some weird times and strange times, but Uh I I don't believe God's gonna have a problem finding all the pieces of dust that are left over. I don't believe he's gonna have any issue trying to collect everything when he com listen, he's the Lord God Almighty. He's the creator of ever Adam and cell and and little small particle of your being. And when that trumpet sounds, it'll all come together just like God said it would, and home to be with the Lord we'll go. That's coming, church. That's coming. That trumpet. The symbolizing of a call to action What's the significance? The significance of this trumpet is that it results in a translation. Listen, John hears the trumpet, and he goes from here to there. John hears it it just like that. You say, preacher, how's that gonna happen? I I really can't tell y'all how. But I know it's going to occur. If you're alive that day, listen, if you're alive at that moment when Jesus comes The Bible tells us we're going to be changed. Just like that. You're going to go from this whole earthbound, mortal, corrupt, tabernacle. To a heaven bound, incorruptible, immortal, being in a moment of time Gravity will lose its hold. I don't think we're going to have time to soar. I've seen some of these paintings. It's showing people in the breeze. Boy, I don't I it's just gonna happen so fast. You're gonna go from here to there just like that. You're going to be translated. When that trumpet sounded, he said, immediately. Immediately. The moment that sound entered his ears, his eyes opened, he was in the Spirit, he was in the throne room of God. Just that quick. I hope you hadn't been saved so long and and stuck that thing away in your back pocket somewhere that you're no longer thrilled about it. It's disheartening to watch people sit and say, Ha, you know, yawn a little bit and go to sleep and say, Oh, that's yeah, I know it's coming. Do you know it? Give your head a shake. Do you realize he's coming? Do you understand that any moment the Lord could come and you'd leave this old world? I don't care what's happening in your life right now, brother, sister, this is going to cure what ails us. You might have arthritis so bad you snap crack on pot like a bowl of cereal every time you move, but there's going to come a day when all that'll be gone. There's gonna be no snap crackling popping down the streets of glory. You're gonna have a brand new, glorified body that don't get sick no more. Thank God for that. Friend, listen, that's the reality of what lies ahead. And this old struggle we have in this flesh as we long to live for the Lord and fail him and have to go back and use first John 1 9 and get our hearts cleaned up again and again. One day that's going to be no more. You'll no longer have to weep bitter tears of repentance over disappointing the Savior. One of these days when you see him you shall be like him And my friend, you are going to worship him in a perfect body, a perfect state, a perfect place, and you'll give him all the glory. I say, even so, come quickly, Lord Jesus. Thank God for that bright hope. That blessed hope of the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior. The significance of that trumpet is that it resulted in a translation. He went from here to there before you could blink your eye And I'm telling you something, that's gonna happen. You and I need to live like we believe it. I'm afraid a lot of times we don't really believe all the stuff we say we do. We don't really believe that that he's going to come and when he comes we we're going to leave here. immediately. If we did, would we do many of the things we do? My older sister used to babysit us and she had a little leverage because she wouldn't tell us when mom and daddy's coming home. But she'd say, now you better behave, they're coming and it might be soon. Now we wasn't old enough at the time to know what time they they'd come, you know. They had a schedule and they worked and they'd get off and they'd be home at a certain time. We weren't old enough to discern that, so she had some leverage. Every once in a while, if we weren't acting just right, she'd say, Now remember they're coming home, and it might be soon And when they get home, you don't want to be doing what you're currently doing. You say, what were you doing? None of your business. But here's what I do know. It helped me straighten my act up every once in a while. 1 John retells me that every man that hath this hope in him purifies himself, even as he is pure. You got this hope inside of you to know what you're doing? You're anticipating it could be today. Let's be ready. Let's just live ready So we see the significance of the trumpet. Now, quickly, number three, I want you to see the talking. Look what the trumpet said. He said, I heard as it were of a trumpet talking with me, which said, Come up hither. And I will show thee things which must be hereafter. Notice the trumpet speaks Again, I want to emphasize I I do believe that uh a literal trumpet uh will will sound. I do believe that that it it's it it I have no problem believing that the voice is going to say come up hither, the trumpet's going to say come up hither. But it's there's going to be a speaking. And everything I find in my Bible, this lost world, don't hear that. The unsaved don't hear that call. They're not hearing the sounding of the trumpet. Every once in a while somebody will release some fake video and it'll it'll have some weird sound off in the distance that sounds like a trumpet blowing and they say the Lord must be coming and I say rubbish The Lord don't have to tune his instruments. He stays in tune all the time. But I'll tell you when it does, when he does come, when he does call. Everybody who's saved is going to hear. And my Bible teaches me everybody who's lost are going to be stunned. They're gonna what happened? Where'd they go? Can I suggest to you that the Antichrist is preparing this world? With an answer. You notice Stephen our government has gotten very interested in extraterrestrial activities. We 're interested in what's out there and what's it doing. I heard one official say perhaps they're going to gather a certain number of people. Take them to a new place. I hear stuff like that, I'm thinking, perhaps. That's going to be the explanation. When the Lord takes a certain number of people and takes them to a particular place. Huh? Not beyond the scale of imagination, is it? Years ago, years ago really. My pastor was over in the eastern part of Tennessee and he was doing some research on a message on the New Age movement. They had come into that mountain valley. And had established a very large following there because they believed that the layout of those mountains in western North Carolina and East Tennessee have some sort of magical power that draws them. They have a lot of very vile definitions for those mountains and what they represent. They had a big store over there and he went in, he was walking around and looking and He was talking to some of the people there. He was trying to get some information, just sort of see what they believed and where this thing was going He said the person behind the the desk there was a very knowledgeable follower of that particular movement and uh asked him, said, are you interested in this? He said, Oh, I I'm interested, he said, I'm interested what you believe and and what you think is happening. And this person with great excitement said, well you you haven't heard the news? He said, no, what news? She said, I I want you to know something. She said the the universe is communicating to us. And he said, really? He said, what's it saying? He said it's saying that there are people who can't handle the change that's coming on the earth. And so the universe is going to remove them out of the way and take them to a place where they will be at home. Because they can't take what's going to come. And Brother Ralph said, you know, it was all I could do to keep undercover He said, I wanted to shout, I'll tell you who it is who's coming, and it ain't the universe. It's the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. He's coming to take his little church home. I'm telling you, the devil's not a dummy. He's preparing this world for the removal. God's people. I believe that. We see here the uh the talking, he says, he speaks and says, Come up hither, notice the summons. I love this. We see the summons is just simply again come up hither. He summons the church home. He summons God's people to glory. He summons them. Oh what power there is in God's word. He spoke and and light became. He said, Let there be light. There's power there. And listen, there's going to be power one day when he says, come up. God 's going to take us home. What a summons. And then notice in the scene here we see heaven immediately, verse 2. I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne. Folks, I really believe with all my heart, Revelation 4, 1 and 2 describe the gathering together. The taking, the coming up hither, the calling home, the blessed hope, the glorious appearing, the calling out of the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. When we go from this earth to heaven. Now we come to the throne. And I don't want to hurry through this, but I do want you to take something home with you about it. Because starting in verse number 2 and going all the way to verse number 11, the throne is the emphasis. John says, here's what I saw. I went from being on the earth, writing about these seven churches, and all of a sudden I'm in heaven, and here's the throne. Isn't it interesting that the first thing he saw was the throne and him that sat on it? I want you to notice the wonder of this throne. He describes it in this scene, if you will, in jewels and rainbows and lightning and thunders and voices and seas of glass. The Jasper speaks of the nature, the perfect nature of God. The sardine stone speaks of the purity, the glory, the excellency of his person The rainbow is the picture of the manifold grace of God. And you'll notice between the throne and John was that rainbow that went all the way around. And I want to remind you that it is the grace of God that allows us to approach that throne. It is called the throne of grace in Hebrews chapter 4. The emerald reflects the glory of the grace in the Godhead. My goodness. We could go on. I I don't want to get bogged down here. I'm going to come back to that, but not tonight. But I want you to see the splendor, the stunning splendor of what's taking place up yonder in heaven. Words are inadequate to describe What awaits. We don't have the vocabulary. I can't communicate. You can't comprehend. We can't really embrace the reality of what that throne is like. But know this It's far better and greater and more majestic than anything we've ever known, seen, felt, heard, experienced. Eye hath not seen and ear hath not heard what God's prepared for them. When we see that throne, what a day that's going to be. My what a throne, the the the wonder of this throne. But I also see a witness in this area. It's three things. There's twenty-four elders, seven spirits, and four beasts. And I believe all of them are a witness to the grace of God. I believe those 24 elders, add it up however you will. I believe it represents the people of God of all ages. The seven spirits represent the Spirit of God, who's not seven in number, but he's perfect as the number seven represents. He's complete. The four beasts, you notice, they're very similar to what Ezekiel saw. Very similar. In fact, they're identical. And those four beasts, as we see their faces, the lion, the man, the ox, or the calf, or the eagle. Those four, I believe, represent the gospels of the Lord Jesus, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. In Matthew, Jesus is presented as the king. Who's the king of the jungle? That lion. In Luke, he's presented as the perfect man. Jesus Christ, the perfect man, and there's represented the man. In Mark, he's represented as the perfect servant. You'll notice those servant terms that are used all through the Gospel of Mark. And I believe that's represented in the calf, or the ox, as Ezekiel calls him. And then the eagle. What's an eagle? An eagle is a heavenly creature. He spends his time in the heavens. And the eagle represents the heavens. John wrote a gospel. Not as the perfect man. He didn't represent Jesus as a perfect man. He didn't represent him as a king. He didn't represent him as a servant. He represented him as A Son of the Living God That heavenly being. Oh listen, when you look up yonder in heaven, what do you see? You see a threefold witness. The saints of God, the Spirit of God, and the Scriptures from God All three bear witness to the grace of God and the goodness of God, and they declare a message for all of God's little people to hear. And then we see the worship. Oh, what a scene it is. Verses 8 to 11, the four beasts as they encircled the throne are crying, Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God Almighty, which was and is and is to come. What worship? They're worshiping around him. The elders, when they hear the cry, what do they do? They fall down on their face? They fall down on their face. By the way, somebody said these are angels. They're not angels. One, they're robed in white, and two, they have a crown. The only way I see in my Bible you can get a crown is that you work for it. You labor for it Crowns aren't just given out as participation awards. This whole world may give participation trophies. God don't. He said there's qu there's crowns. You can win them. You gotta win them though. You gotta work and labor. a and be faithful and and and those crowns they're on their head. What do they do? They take them off. They cast them at his feet. Look at the worship of these 24 elders. I want you to notice that declaration of worship. They cry holy. Their dedication, they cast their crowns at his feet. And the recognition, you know what they say? Look at it. Thou art worthy. You know what they're recognizing? He's worthy. Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. My what a scene. There's not an individual standing around that throne. Killing time. There's not an individual around that throne just scuffing his feet, not participating. There's not an individual around that throne criticizing. Would you look at them? Would you look at what they're doing? There's not a listen, you know what everybody's attention is on? He that's on the throne. Thou art worthy. Everybody's eyes are on him. Everybody's heart's engaged in worship Every individual around that throne are giving him the glory. They're recognizing he alone's worthy. We're here because of his grace. It's not anything I've done. He's worthy. He alone's worthy. Nobody's talking about how good they are, how how big they are, how powerful there are. There's no big shots or little shots Everybody's on their face. Everybody's throwing their crowns. Everybody's calling him worthy. Everybody's joining in in the chorus and worshiping the Lord. By the way, just because you come to church don't mean you worship God. You can sing hymns and hear sermons and never worship God at all. Worship is the heart's recognition of the great value of the Lord. It's the cry from the innermost being saith, He's worthy. Lord, you're worthy. You're worthy. It may not always come out in words, sometimes it may come out in water. So it sometimes it may not come out in an ex uh an audible expression, it may come out what we call a holy grunt It may not always come out in a hallelujah or an amen, but it's okay if it does, because I'm telling you we're going to do that in glory. But the reality is, my friend, that we all, all in this scene, all in this place all around the throne are acknowledging the great worth of the Lord himself and they're crying out in worship, giving him glory for the reality that we're there, for the reality of who he is And and so that he will be exalted for all of eternity. What a day of worship. Now John left this old earth worshiping. That's what he was doing. You read it, Revelation 1, he's over here worshiping, down here on earth. Next thing you know, he's up yonder worshiping. If I can just say it like this, what a way to go. What a way to go. Worshiping the Lord down here. I don't know when the Lord's going to come back. But wouldn't it be something if the Lord came back and we were all sitting here having service? Wouldn't it be something if the Lord came back? I know you've heard that. I've heard it too my whole life, but it very well could occur. Can you imagine just worshiping? I I I hope you're worshiping. It'd be an awful thing for the Lord to come you sitting there being critical. I d I wish they'd settle down and not be so loud. They bother me I don't know who they are to be saying uh words like that the way they live. Huh? You know what you're occupied with? Man, not God. You're caught up in people. You need to get your eyes on the Lord. Not a person in heaven is going to have their eyes on each other. They're not going to be looking at the beauty and the splendor of the wonder. Listen, heaven, we're not going to be enthralled with all of the splendor of heaven. We're going to be enthralled with the Savior who's in heaven. Our hearts are going to adore and worship him who's altogether lovely. Oh, God, help us tonight Help us to get ready down here, because we very well could go from worshiping here to worshiping there. The Lord is coming. Are you ready? Are you going to be in that number? Have I told you future today? If you're not saved, my friend, you'll not be there. What a sad thing it is, what a sad truth it is. But you're not going to be there. If you're not saved, you will not be there You say, but I I 'm a member of the church. I've been baptized. I've done all of the things that are required of me. But if you've not been born again, you will not be there. Oh, may the Lord help us to see only the saved are there. And if you're not saved, I'm going to ask you a question tonight. What are you waiting on? He's done everything he can do. Jesus said three little words. It is finished. Salvation doesn't need your work. It doesn't need your addition. It doesn't need your accomplishment. You simply need to trust in what Jesus has done. To be born again. And if you're not saved, friend, I'm going to ask you again, why not? Why not? Christ died for your sin. He was buried and he rose again the third day. He's given a glorious promise that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That can be you. That can be you. Dear brother, sister, you're saved. But are you living ready for the Lord to come? Are you like one of those Christians that said, I'm going to have to call a timeout? There gonna be no timeouts called. When the trumpet sounds, it's over and done. I'm going to tell you something. Take a timeout tonight. Get right with the Lord. And then live that way. Till Jesus comes. Do you know the beauty of being a Christian is that you don't have to live out of fellowship with the Lord. You don't have to. If we confess our sin, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You only live out of fellowship because you want to. He's made a way for you to live right with him. Don't waste a moment. Don't waste a moment. Get right with the Lord. And then just stay that way. Till the Lord takes you home. Walk so close that when the Lord takes you home, it won't be no culture shock. When John left here and went there, he didn't seem all that stunned. You know why? Because he is living close down here. And what he experienced up there was not a great deal different in many ways than what he had enjoyed down here, because he had been walking in the spirit down here. Next thing you know, he's in the spirit up there. I want to live so close it'd be just like stepping off the step. May the Lord help us tonight. Now you're going to rub shoulders with somebody this week that's not ready. And they're not saved. And if you're walking close, the Lord's going to say, tell them. Just tell them. They need to hear. They need to hear the gospel. They need to hear the truth. They need to hear the Lord's coming. You need to get ready They need to hear the fact that Jesus saves. And if we don't tell them, can I ask you who's going to? Oh, somebody. You ever notice how somebody ends up being nobody? Nobody's the hardest working man in the church. Because anybody could do it, so they leave it up to anybody. Anybody says everybody should. Then everybody says, well Somebody will. And finally somebody says nobody will take care of it. And so nobody does. And the gospel is no different. Somebody needs to hear the gospel from your lips Preacher, it's awful hard for me to talk. Well, God's given us a little tool called a gospel tract And you may you may be uh it hard it may be difficult, you may be shy, and I understand that. I'm not chiding you. You are who you are But surely to goodness you can take a little gospel tract, put it in somebody's hand, smile, just the prettiest smile you can muster, and say, please read that. Now what you can't say, it can. It can. And you don't know where that will go or what God might do with it. Let's anticipate again the revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ to his church. One day he's going to come. I say even so come quickly. Lord Jesus. Let's stand together. Do you need a moment to pray? Let's let's come around the altar. Our pianists, if you'll come quickly and just