Would you take your Bibles, please, and go to the Gospel of John chapter twelve? And let me read a portion of this. John chapter number twelve. Beginning in verse number twenty, John chapter twelve in verse number twenty. Notice what the Bible says. There were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the feast. The same came therefore to Philip, which was of Bethsae of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus. Philip cometh and telleth Andrew, and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus. And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Verily, verily, I say unto you, except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. He that loveth his life shall lose it, and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal. If any man serve me, let him follow me, and where I am, there shall also my servant be. If any man serve me, him will my father honor. Now is my soul troubled. What shall I say? Father saved me from this hour, but for this cause came I unto this hour Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven saying, I have both glorified it and will glorify it again. The people therefore that stood by and heard it said that it thundered. Others said an angel spake to him. Jesus answered and said, This voice came not because of me, but for your sakes. Now is the judgment of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out. And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. This he said, signifying what death he should die. The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that Christ abideth forever. And how sayest thou, the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? And Jesus said unto them, Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness come upon you. For he that walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth. While ye have light, believe in the light, that ye may be children of the light. These things spake Jesus and departed and did hide himself from them. You know what's going on here. We've just broken into a portion of the scripture. But what's happened here is that there are some people who are confused about who Jesus Christ is. There are Greeks that have come looking for him, there are Jews that are standing there listening to him, and in this great multitude of people, there's great confusion concerning him. And yet I marvel at that because Jesus has made it very clear and very plain in what he just said to them concerning who he is. So the Lord helping me this morning. I want to preach on the thought. Are you confused about Christ? Let's pray together. Father, we come in Jesus' name. And Lord, how we ask you to do a very special work in all of our hearts. I thank you for the Scriptures and thank you for the Spirit of God, both which take care of this confusion. I pray, Lord, that in mercy you will blow away all the clouds of confusion, perhaps for some lost soul, or maybe some struggling saint. But dear Lord, I pray that you'll do the work that's needed in every heart, and I pray this, Lord, for your glory and for our good. Lord, we need you this morning. We're glad, Lord, you're an ever-present help. We look to you and pray now that you'll be glorified in this place and be lifted up and we might leave here saying it's been good to be in the house of the Lord because the Lord has been in his house working in our hearts. Have your way, Father. We bow in submission to you and pray. Lord, you'll undertake now in Jesus' strong name. And God's people said. I want to take you back to verse 34, and especially to this last statement or question rather. In verse 34, who is this Son of Man? You see , this confusion was very rampant in that day. Jesus has already told them who he is, and yet their confusion remained. You say, why were they confused? Can I suggest a few things? Number one, because of their wrong interpretation of Scripture. You'll notice it said, We have heard out of the law that Christ abideth forever. So as we think about what they're hearing, they're not submitting to what the Bible says or what the truth is. They've got their own preconceived ideas. How many people miss the mark because they come knowing what they think they know and they really don't know what they think they know and they don't learn what they need to know because they think they've already got it figured out. I'm glad the Bible is a book that I don't have to come to with it all figured out, because I won't figure it out. But I can come to it with an honest heart, saying, Lord, show me And here's what I promise you, if you come looking for truth, you'll find truth right here on the pages of this book. Who is this son of man? Well, they're wrong in terms. You see, they had their mind already made up. When Messiah comes, he'll rule the world. When the Messiah comes, he'll be the one in charge. He'll put down this evil Roman Empire. He'll raise up the Jews. He'll bring us out of bondage. He'll take us out of this captivity that we're in. He'll set us free. They were looking for a political deliverer, not looking for a sacrificial lamb. But had they read their Bibles, they would have been aware, they would have known clearly that he's coming to die. Isaiah had already said, and it's interesting he quotes out of that, Isaiah 53, he told us that he would be cut off. He had already painted the picture again and again through sacrifice, through offerings, through the tabernacle and the temple. And he had showed them again and again and again, this is who I am, this is what I'm coming to do, that lamb that's put on that altar, I'm going to be that lamb. That lamb that took Isaac's place, that ram called him a thicket that took Isaac's place, I'm that ram. I I'm that blood that fl that that shed there in that temple in that uh continually flowing to put uh sin or to deal with sin. I'm the one who's come to put sin away. He'd already told them all of this, but you see their minds were already made up. Now sometimes we Baptists think we're better than other folk and we say, well, I don't approach my Bible that way, but I found some Baptists that got a Baptist mindset, not a Bible mindset. And Baptist mindset's about as wrong as a Catholic mindset. Or any other mindset. Anything that you come to the Bible having it already figured out without knowing what the Bible says is wrong. Because the Bible speaks very clearly. And so they they had a wrong interpretation, but then they also had wrong inclinations. Notice what it says in verse 37. But though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they believed not on him It wasn't like Jesus had just showed up and started speaking uh out of the out of the clear blue sky. He had been living among them. He had been one in fact we're steps away from the cross So he's been over three years in their midst. He's been m working miracles, raising dead, giving sight to blind, causing people that were lame to walk. He's been doing all kinds of miracles, verifying that he is who he says he is. And yet they still won't believe him. Verse 38, here's why. That the saying of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled which he spake. Lord, who hath believed thy report? And to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed? Therefore they could not believe, because that Isaiah said again, He hath blinded their eyes and hardened their heart. That they should not see with their eyes, nor understand with their heart, and be converted that I should heal them. You see, the inclination of man is towards sin. He's born blind and dead. Though you may be sitting here alive and seeing, spiritually speaking, you're born dead and blind. And you and I, the inclination of our heart is towards unbelief. And here again, they they had a wrong inclination. Their hearts were were bent towards sin. And someone said that the bend that we that we choose, the bend that we lean into is the one to which we conform. And here they have a wrong inclination. They're in unbelief. Their hearts are hard I'm not going to believe why why is it that the children of Israel would watch God part the Red Sea and then worry about being able to drink or eat in the wilderness? How is it that they would watch the Lord destroy Egypt on their behalf and then get out in the wilderness not many days further, and then all of a sudden, woe is me, we might as well go back and die there because we're going to die out here How is it that we can see God do things and believe God for things, and then suddenly the next crises brings upon us a lapse of faith, and we say, Well, I don't think God can do it. You know why? Because your heart's bent towards sin. Our hearts are bent towards that place of hardness and blindness and unbelief. And I need the Lord to do something in my heart to open my eyes. I'll remain dead till he says live. I'll remind I I will remain in that state of blindness until he gives my eyesight. What a mercy here, but see the wrong inclination. They they they were in this state of not seeing who the Son of Man is. You know, isn't it funny when you get saved and you start Looking at the Bible and talking about the gospel, and you talk to somebody who's not saved, isn't it strange how you look at them and think, this is so simple. Why don't you get it? And you feel you almost feel like, I mean, how can you miss it? It's so it's so plain, it's so simple. You know why it's so plain and so simple? Because God has saved you and made you a new creature. You once were in that state. Remember before you got saved how little the Bible made sense? How strange the gospel was to your ears, how foolish the things of God seemed to your mind and heart. I mean, you look at it, you think, that's that's just that's ridiculous. I mean, what what is all of that about But then you get saved and what you once ridiculed now you revere and say, Oh God, how good you are to save somebody like me And then they had some wrong associations. You go on and read in this chapter in verse 42. I'm talking about why they're confused. They're confused because of their preconceived ideas. They're confused because of their old blind, wicked, dead hearts, and they're confused because of the crowd they're running with. Verse 42 says, Nevertheless, among the chief rulers also many believed on him, but because of the Pharisees, they did not confess him. Lest they should be put out of the synagogue. Look at verse 43. For they love the praise of men more than the praise of God. I'll tell you why people remain confused, is because they're hanging around a crowd that is confused. They're confused because they're uh they're they're in the wrong associations, they're in that wrong company of individuals. May the Lord help us to see how vital it is. You know, and we're living in a day where you and I can be exposed to near anything just in our fingertips. And I'm gonna just say very carefully this morning, you be careful about who you listen to. Teach and preach the word of God. There's all kinds of it, and a lot of it sounds good and it's attractive and it's alluring and it and it brings but I'll tell you a lot of it brings nothing but a whole lot of confusion. And depend on your personality, depend on who you are, you're drawn to something. Or you're drawn to someone. You know, a lot of people are drawn. They're drawn to an individual who who may be intellectual because they're somewhat intellectual. Or they're drawn to someone who's very emotional because they're emotional. They're drawn to someone who's very charismatic, maybe because they're charismatic. And if you're not careful, the devil will put somebody in the right suit to get your attention to draw you away from the truth of Scripture Beware. If a man don't preach the Bible, don't give him your ear. If it doesn't come from the pages of Thus Saith the Lord, close your ears and say, That's not of God, that's not from the Lord. Because listen, the truth of the matter is the devil can come as an angel of light just as well as he can an angel of darkness. And their wrong associations led to a confusion about Jesus Christ. I'm troubled over the reality that so many people are taken up with these fellows who are heretics, not just in their preaching, but in their practice. I'm going to warn you about some. I wished I had time. I'd just stand here and give you names. But I'm going to warn you this morning, Stephen Anderson is a heretic. And you need to be careful about listening to somebody like him. Stephen Anderson is now in practice a heretic. He's practicing his heresy just like so many other who've walked in his steps And if you're keen to listen to him, I'd shut my ears because what you're doing is you're hearing something that's going to create confusion in your faith. Every good listen. Every good man says, Thus saith the Lord. I bow my opinion. Look, everyone in here, if we're truthful and honest and really want to know the truth, you know where we bow, we bow at the altar, not of our church pulpit. We don't bow at the altar of some man's personality. We bow at the altar of the inspired Word of God. And we say the Bible says it, and hallelujah, I'm going to fall in line with it because it's written on the pages of the book. We're people of this book. Brother and sister, you and I need to be very careful about what we fill our minds with and who we fill our minds with because of the confusion. These people remain confused. Here's the problem. They just didn't want to come out and be different than everybody else. They said they they they made it very clear here, they love the praise of men more than the praise of God. You know what they were interested in? They wanted the praises from the Pharisees rather than to please the Lord. And so it created a vast, vast confusion in their heart. And they ask the question, who is? Who is? It's almost sarcastic in nature if you think about it. Who is this son of man? Now, by the way, that son of man is not a term that was new. Jesus didn't make it up. In Daniel 7, 23, Daniel said the Messiah will be the Son of Man. That's what Daniel said. They had already been told many years before it ever occurred that the Messiah would be the Son of Man, but the Son of Man was Jesus most famous most uh love term that he used for himself. Over eighty times Jesus called himself the Son of Man. You know why he did that? Because he was identifying with you and me. He was identifying as one of us. Oh yes, he's deity. The fact Daniel said that the Messiah would be the Son of Man declares that he's still God, but yet the Lord Jesus so loved us that he wanted to become one of us that we could go and be with him. Now friend, that's mercy. What a mercy that is So who is this son of man? Who is he? Well, he's already told them. Can I point that out quickly this morning? Number one, he's the suffering son of man. He's the suffering Son of Man. Jesus answered them in verse 23 saying, The hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. He's letting them know that there's a moment in his life that he was born for. He was born for this moment, this moment that was in the near future. He said, There's coming a moment where you're going to see that God will be glorified in what I do. He's come for that moment. That moment was the whole reason he was born. And so he gives them an illustration to tell the meaning in verse 24. Verily, verily I say unto you, except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. He said that seed that you plant, maybe among that crowd, I I know uh among them were people who had planted, they were an agrarian society, so Probably everybody there knew something about planting a seed in the ground, watching that seed die so it could give life and bear fruit. They're familiar with that. You plant in fact we just picked yesterday our first zucchini. I wished everything else in my garden would grow like them zucchinis. Them plants will make fifteen or twenty zucchinis a week. Who eats that many zucchinis? I mean, man, there's only so many things you can do with one of them things. But that little that seed, they're about that big, and and you take that seed and you put it in the ground and and if you look at it after a little while you'll see that it starts it looks like it's rotting. But out of that out of that what appears to be death, you'll see a little sprig of green. And before long that that'll turn into that beautiful plant and it will begin to bloom and flower, and then before you know it, there's fruit. And not just one seed. Do you know how many seeds are in a zucchini? One zucchini. And them things make thousands of zucchinis, I think. I don't know, I've never counted, but it seems like they make thousands. And and there's there's multiplied numbers of seeds. It it fell into the ground and dies. And when it died, it didn't abide alone. It brought forth fruit. Jesus said they're going to take me and nail me on a cross. And I'm going to die. I'm going to lay down my life. But I'm not going to stay dead, nor am I going to die alone, because when I come up, I'm going to bring life, and it's going to be life for everyone who will come to me. What an illustration. What an illustration. And then notice what he said. We hear a must, if you will, in his voice. In verse 27: Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this cause came I unto this hour. He was not seeking a way out. Someone said when he prayed in the garden, I heard someone the other day say, Well, when he prayed in the Garden of Eden, he is fine he was trying to find a way out. That's rubbish He wasn't looking for a way out. He came to give his life. When they laid him in that manger in Bethlehem, he was born to die. He was destined to go to the cross. He said, I'm not going to pray, Father, save me from this hour. I've come for this hour. This is the whole reason I've come. I must go to the cross. The Bible says he set his face like a flint to Jerusalem. In other words, he was determined to follow through. You say, who is this son of man? He's the suffering son of man And that crowd gathered, and I'm sure in this number were people who would stand a few days later and look at the cross and see him. I wonder if they remembered the corn of wheat, fall on the ground, die. I wonder if they thought, for this hour I came. I wonder if they thought for a moment, oh, this is the Son of Man, the suffering Son of Man. Oh, listen, my friend, it's very clear in the Word of God that Jesus is that suffering Son of Man. He's the final sacrifice. Every lamb that died, every sacrifice that was made, all the blood that was shed pointed forward to this. It pointed forward to that final sacrifice who would lay his life down for us. My dear friend, God did something in the cross That has never been done before and will never need to be repeated. It was a final event. Thank God for Calvary. Thank God for the cross. Oh, some beautiful hymns have been written about the cross. Some beautiful hymns have been pinned concerning the beauty of the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. One written in 1913. Written in 1912. He worked on it for a year, George Bernard. He was a Methodist evangelist. And there's about five places in the country that say he wrote the hymn here. Well, they say that because he wrote parts of it there. As he traveled about, he wrote part of it here, and he wrote part of it there, and he part part in Michigan and part in Wisconsin and and uh he even started it up in New York and As he's writing and and he's writing, he's he's he's going through a personal crisis. His ministry is at a crossroad, and he's in that age of of the social gospels getting ready to be born, so to speak, and and people are despising that old message of the old rugged cross. And he said it was then and there God spoke to me, preach the old rugged cross. Because the old rugged cross is what men need to hear. And he determined, in spite of the ridicule, in spite of the criticism, he was going to sing about, he was going to preach about the old rugged cross, because it's still God's way to get saved. You can go out of here and say, Well, I'll just do good. You'll do good and end up in hell. You can say, I'll just join your church, and you know what you'll do? You'll join this church and go to hell. You say, well, I'll just go out of here and I'll do the best I can. You'll do the best you can and still end up in hell. God made a payment for your sin. He didn't do it through your works, and he didn't do it through religion, but he did it on an old rugged cross. And when Jesus died for my sin, the the sin that was paid, the need was met, forgiveness was secured, all through the Lord Jesus. Thank God for that. One of his fellow Methodist preachers criticized the song and said, it will never come to nothing. In fact, he'll he'll vanish into oblivion. And and when I read a name I'm not familiar with, I usually go look and ask Mr. Google. And try to find out all I can about that name. I like to learn about these people, what happened, what what come up. Do you know there are fifteen places in three countries that are named after this man simply because he wrote that hymn. I'm going to tell you something, the old rugged cross is still the answer. It's the answer for your sin, dear lost friend. If you're lost and not uh not uh saved and your sins are not forgiven, you're sitting here under the load of that, the guilt of that, the condemnation of that, there's only one place you can lay it down. You won't lay it in this church pew. It'll get on your back and go home with you. You won't lay it in in some uh ritual by lighting a candle or rubbing a rosary bead. I'll tell you where you'll get it lifted Burdens are lifted at Calvary. When you, my friend, lay that burden at the cross, God takes that sin away. And like that old ancient book, Pilgrim's Progress, when he knelt before the cross, that load come off his back. Rolled down the hill, went in an empty grave, and he said, I never saw it again. Aren't you glad for God's ability to remove our sin and to take it all away? It happens at the cross. Who is this son of man? He's the suffering son of man. But he's more than that. Who is this son of man? He's the sovereign son of man. He's the sovereign son of man. In verse 28, look what happens, Father. Jesus said, Glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven saying, I have both glorified it and will glorify it again. You see, what was happening here is that the very God of heaven had taken upon himself the form of a man. Jesus was not a glorified angel, he was not a special angel. He was not something created by the hands of men. He was God incarnate. God taking flesh and living among us. He was so much God that he worked miracles they couldn't explain. He was so much God that when he said, Father, glorify thy name, he and the Father were one. The Father said, Son, I've glorified thy name and will glorify. There was unbroken communion there. There was unbroken union because the Father and the Son, my friend, are one. Notice with me here very clearly that he the matter of concern about this was that he'd be glorified. The message was delivered through the voice, the voice that they heard from heaven. And man's unbelief, man's unbelief hides many a miracle. You know what they said? It thundered. I've heard a lot of thunder in my life, but I've never heard thunder say anything intelligible. Have you? If you have, you need to go get medicine. Thunder don't communicate words Thunder don't make words. Thunder doesn't form words. It didn't thunder. Jesus said, You heard that voice, not for my sake, but for your sake. You heard what it said. You heard the voice. That voice from heaven. You imagine what that must have been? You know the problem we often have is that we don't we don't recognize miracles for what they are because we're always looking for an explanation of what we think they should be. We think we've got to figure it out. We've got to we've got to explain it. Listen, when you hold a newborn baby, you can't explain that. That's a miracle. I was thinking the other day when I was ours ours were born, uh about passed out when Sarah was born, and uh uh you know, that was new. I that was scary. And I I foolishly told the doctor, I said, I live on a farm. He said, All right. I said, I've delivered at this point about 800 calves. And he looked at me. He said, This isn't a calf. I say, I know. You know, I'm just being foolish, just this young and immature, and I'm thinking, well, it can't be much different. Well boy, is it different Man, I'll tell you when she was born, my legs were shaking. I can remember holding her and I think I'm gonna drop this little thing. It was such a miracle. I thought, how did this happen? I mean how the the wonder of it all, this newborn baby that God that God has given life. Do you know why uh uh abortion is murder? Because you're taking something God has given God gives life. Here that little thing is alive and you look and you think, Oh my. Sarah's talking about her little uh little baby. uh moving about and all of that and especially it especially loves music. He he he loves music. She said when they sing at church he does flip-flops on the inside. I said, well hallelujah. Maybe you'll have some ability and sing and honor the Lord But isn't that a miracle? I said you talk to him, you communicate with him. He's not a thing, he's a living soul. God's made him alive. You imagine with me the reality hear this voice that come from heaven and said, This is my son. I have glorified thy name and will glorify. I like what verse thirty-one says. The Bible says that Now Jesus is talking here. Now is the judgment of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out. He'll be cast out. I believe that word, if you'll study it, literally means he'll be thrown down. His rule of terror will be over. Remember what was said about the Messiah in Genesis 3:15 that his heel will be bruised, but he'll crush the serpent's head? And on Calvary, when the devil was rejoicing that finally the Messiah's dead, what he didn't know is that the death of Christ was the death blow to his rule of terror. It was there he was defeated. It was there his power was broken. Aren't you grateful for the death of the Lord Jesus, who though he was dying on the cross, was conquering the devil in hell? Even in death, he demonstrated that he was God. You say, how did he do that? He died, yes, but he died when he chose to. He said, Father, into thy hands I dismiss my spirit. The cross was not a natural death. The cross was not a place where life just Leaked out or flowed out of the Lord Jesus. It was there he commanded and dismissed his spirit. It was not until he did it that he could die. Listen to me. We're 2,000 plus years ahead from that event, and you know what? Had Jesus not dismissed his spirit, he'd still be hanging there. Because the Prince of Life can't die until the Prince of Life says I'm dead. He was still sovereign even as he hung on the cross. The cross did not diminish the Lord Jesus. It exalted him. His death opened the floodgates of life. Just like the corn of wheat falls in the ground and dies, it don't abide alone. It's a place of life, and there life begins to grow. Then I want you to see lastly, he's the saving son of man. He's the suffering son of man and the sovereign son of man, but he's also the saving son of man. In verse 32, he said, And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. I want you to see this. What a mercy. Here God dies for me. Here God pays my sin then. He pays the debt I owe. And he pays it not because I require it or ask it or request it, but simply because he loved me and he gave himself for me. He pays my sin that he said, when I'm and then he goes on to tell, I will draw all men unto me. I do believe with all of my heart that you will not come except the Lord draw you. I do believe it takes the work of the Holy Ghost in a man's heart before he'll get saved. I can't convince you. Now I can present logic and I can present scripture and I can present reason, but I can't convince your darkened mind and I cannot convert your lost soul. But the father can't. And he said, if you lift me up, I'll draw. He's the magnet. He's the great magnet. Someone sent me a video the other day. They were in this junkyard and they had one of them big electrical magnets where they unload metal. And man, when that thing came out over that trailer and reached down in there, I don't forget how many hundreds of pounds of metal, and he turned that magnet on, every bit of it went up. And it hung there. I mean a load no t no ten men could carry. And took it over there and dropped it in a pile. That magnet had power. It it drew it it had magnetism. It drew that that metal to itself. It it lifted it up. And I'm glad there's a gospel that'll lift me out of my sin. And there is a Savior who will come to where I am. You say, preacher, I can't save myself. I can't live the Christian life. Oh listen, you're about to get in a good place because when you realize you can't, you'll start looking to the one who can. Salvation's not pull yourself up by your bootstraps. It's look to the Lamb of God. Salvation's not get out here and do better. It's fall at the cross of Calvary and cry out for mercy and find him to be faithful to save to the uttermost. Every person who will come to him Thank God for his rich mercy. We see his saving the saving Son of Man, the mercy extended, and the means was the cross. This he said, it says in verse 33, signifying what death he should die. And then he tells them, boy, you need to pay attention to this, verse 35, yet a little while the light's with you. Walk while ye have the light. Lest darkness come upon you. For he that walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth. While ye have the light, listen now, believe in the light, that ye may be children of the light. Jesus, John said in his gospel in John chapter 1, is the light of the world. Jesus is the light. You know what he's saying? Believe me. Walk after me. Follow me. Jesus is the light. Now you can choose to stay in the dark. But the Bible says the man who lives in darkness don't know where he's going. But if you stay in the dark and die in the dark, you'll end up in the dark. I'm talking about living forever in hell. Jesus said, Here, I'm the light. Follow me. Follow me. I'm not looking to you follow me. I'm not asking you this morning to follow the Baptist movement. I'm calling upon every person who's in my hearing. Follow the Lamb of God. Follow Jesus Christ. He's the answer. He's the light. Vance Havner used to tell a story about a city preacher who went to preach in a country camp meeting And after it was over, this is before the days of flashlights and such, he realized one of the old farmers there realized the preacher didn't have a lantern. And he saw him kind of stumbling along, trying to make his way back to where he was staying, and the old farmer lit him a pine torch. Piece of fat wood, we called it. And that that that that pine is so saturated with that resin that you can't put that out once you light it. Man, that thing will burn and And so he lit it and he handed it to the preacher and he said, here, this will get you home. He said, but what if the wind blows it out? He said, it'll take you home. But what if it starts to rain and the water puts it out? He said, It'll take you home. He said, What if I were to drop it? He said, Would it put the flame out? He said, listen, the farmer got a little irritated. He said, you're a city man, I'm a countryman. You don't know what you're talking about? I know what I'm talking about. It will get you home. And old Havner said, Isn't that like Jesus? He'll get us home. He's the light of the world. You can sit here and argue, well, what if I don't hold out? You gotta worry about holding out, you're held kept by the power of God. Well what what if I what if I forget I look to him he will get you home he's the light of the world he knows the way And when you come to Death 's Chili Waters and make your crossing, you're not crossing through territory that he's never been. He's already walked through there. He knows the way. And thank God he'll see you safely over. Years ago I was fishing with dad, and my dad loved to wade in the stream. He he he didn't think you'd catch anything if you stayed on a bank. And even up in his eighties he was still fishing. I'll never forget Joe had him out there and he fell and Josiah picked him up and my dad was fussing about uh his legs giving out on him. He said, I hate getting old. I just can't do what I want to do, you know, but it didn't stop him from trying, you know, it just made everybody else have to be on guard. And he wouldn't tell my son this, but he called me and he said, son, I fell in the water and that boy grabbed me by the seat of my pants and threw me on the bank. Boy he must be strong. He said, I miss that. But anyway, he and I were fishing and he he wanted to cross this this river. It was a river. I said, Dad, I'm not going across there. He said there's no good fishing over here I said, well surely we can go down there and come across. He said, no, that old man's got the he's got the the land blocked off. It's all private. He said he can't bother us if we stay in the water. He said, Let's l let's just cross right here. I said, Dan, uh that the one of us will drown. And he said, No, I've been through here before He said, I want you to follow where I step. He said, there's a hole over here and a hole there, but if you'll just walk where I walk, he said, I've done it a hundred times. He said, you'll be okay. Now I was reluctant. Not that I don't trust my dad, but I just didn't trust my dad at that moment, you know. But he said, now just step where I step. And you know what? Sure enough, we got to the other side. And and neither one of us fell in either way, and boy the fishing was good. I said, Dad, you know what you're talking about. There'll come a day when the Lord says, son, it's time to go home. I've never been through that territory before. But he has. He'll say, Walk where I walk. I've been through here. I've come through here, I've tasted death for every man. And on the third and glorious morning I got up again. You just walk where I walk, you stay right behind me. Aren't you glad the light of the world will see you safely home? Church walk in the light while you have the light. There's coming a day when darkness is going to fill the land. We're coming to Revelation chapter 8 tonight. And as we move into that, we're going to see judgment come, one of the judgment. Third of the lights out. Third of the light. Soon all the lights will be out. But there's a light that you'll never extinguish. The devil couldn't put him out on Calvary. He couldn't put him out on the cross. That third morning that light started shining again. And he shines this morning. And if you're not saved, I'm not saying come join Marinath Baptist Church. I'm not saying come get in the waters of baptism. I'm saying you trust Jesus Christ because He's the only one who can save you. Come to him while you have the opportunity. The light, look, the darkness is coming. The darkness is coming. And buddy, when it comes, when the lights go out, there's gonna come a place. You die without Christ. There's no hope. There's no hope. I'm not trying to scare or manipulate. I'm just trying to tell you the truth this morning. But you've got an opportunity to be saved, and if you don't take that opportunity, you may never have another. That's just the reality of life. You must be born again. And dear saved brother, sister, the Bible has the answer as to who Jesus is. I don't have to go to the Encyclopedia Britannica. I don't have to turn to Google. I can open my Bible. And it tells me clearly who this Son of Man is. I'll tell you what he is. He's altogether lovely. You'll find flaw with me and everybody else you look at, but you'll never find flaw in him. He's the perfect Son of God. And son of man. Follow him today. If you've not been living for him, you you may be as a Christian cold and backslid. Get your heart right today. Life's too short and heaven's too sweet to live like you're not saved. Yield yourself. Lord, here I am. Submit. Dr. Hitchens talked to us in Sunday school about it. The great battle that we all have as Christians is that great big word, submit. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Bow your knee. Give up. Run the white flag of surrender. Not my will, Lord, thine be done. There's where victory's found, church. There's where victory is found. Yield to him today. Friend, if you don't know the Lord, we're going to have an invitation, give you an opportunity to come pray. If you want someone to pray with you when you kneel or maybe sit on a front row, lift your hand and somebody will join you and pray with you. But it's important today. Important. You consider the answer to this question. Who is this son of man? We're sitting here in a friendly environment. The day is going to come when we're going to have to answer that question. If we didn't get saved, we're not going to be looking at the Son of Man. We're going to be looking at the Son of God who's our judge. And there we'll have to answer, yes, he's Lord. But it'll be a little too late then to confess what's already true. I'd get saved today, if you weren't saved. And dear Christian, let's live for him. Would you stand, brother Come with her hand