Kindly turn with me please to 2 Timothy chapter number 3. 2 Timothy chapter number 3. I'm going to read one verse in your hearing. And I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please, as we read this text. 2 Timothy chapter 3. We'll read our text verse this morning. That's verse number 14. 2 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 14. Notice those three very important little words. But continue thou. In the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. And then if you'll go back up to verse number one and let me just read that first verse, this know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. The Lord helping me this morning, I want to continue and add another message to the series on Continue Thou. So far we've looked at, but continue thou the statement. My what a statement it is. It is a charge and a challenge and the direction of God for the Christians of the last days. But continue thou. And then we looked at the continue thou of salvation, that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures. Which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. I'm grateful that the gospel of Jesus Christ is still the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth. And it is a message that needs to continually be told and preached, and the message needs to be spread. And so the continue thou of salvation. And then we have looked at the continue thou of scriptures, that all scripture is given by inspiration of God. And is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. I'm grateful that I have a Bible that speaks with clarity and authority. But this morning I want to look at the continue thou of struggle. The continue thou of struggle. You'll notice the Bible makes it clear that in the last days perilous times shall come. May the Lord help us this morning. Father, we bow in Jesus' name and we acknowledge our great need. We're grateful for the Lord Jesus who loved us and gave himself for us. Lord, I thank you for your saving grace. I thank you, Lord, you've made a way. You said Jesus is the way, the truth and the life, and no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Oh Lord, I thank you that you've made a way through your dear son. I pray this morning, Lord, that you'd speak now to our hearts and give us ears to hear and hearts that will obey. And just undertake, Lord, in a special way, and we'll give you the glory. Hide me behind the cross. Help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. And may your will be done. And we'll praise you and thank you for all that you do. Lord, we're an awful needy people. But we're encouraged this morning because we serve such a mighty, wonderful God. And we praise you now for what you're going to do, for we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. One thing about the Bible is that it never coddles you with a lie. It always speaks the truth. Sometimes it's truth we don't want to hear, sometimes it's truth we don't care to hear, but it always speaks the truth. And the truth about it, a believer in the last days, is that there will be a struggle. If I can put it this way, any old dead fish can float downstream. It takes the living ones to go against the current. And as a child of God, that's what we're doing. We're flowing against the current. We're swimming against the current. And there is a struggle. We know this morning that there is a battle. You say, what is the battle? You know, a lot of people think, well, if I get saved, they're told today, if I become a Christian, everything's just going to be beautiful. Well that's not true. I mean eternity is going to be wonderful. But the reality is that there will be a battle. You're going to face a battle with the flesh, you're going to face a battle with the world, you're going to face a battle with the devil. In just a short word, it will be a struggle Some Christians said to me not long ago, Pastor, why in the world does it seem like I'm always in a struggle? I said, because you're going the right way. Now if you're not facing any struggle much, then you're likely not going the right way. But if you're going the right way, there's going to be a struggle. We're swimming against the current of culture and against the current uh of of the world, so to speak. And so what we see here is the the continue vow of struggle. The last days are not quitting days, they're continuing days And so you say, Preacher, what does the Bible say about that? Let me point out a few things. There is a struggle first because of the times we're in. Look at verse one. This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. Notice the confidence which Paul writes. This know You know, we you can be sure about some things. I know it's against the the trend, but but the reality is we're not being arrogant, we're certainly not being ignorant, we're just being confident that God meant what he said. You can know that we're in perilous times because we're living in the last days. I'm glad my Bible tells me some things that I can know. And by the way, everything's happening just like the Lord said it would. Not only do I see a confidence, but I see the church. Notice this know also that in the last days. You see, what are we talking about? The last days of the age of grace. We're talking about the last days just before the Lord comes. We're talking about that period of time just before the rapture of the church and the removal of the Christians from this world. And the Bible says that in the last days there will be a characteristic church that will be prevalent in that time. It's called the Laodicean Church. Now let me say this: just because we're living in Laodicean days doesn't mean you have to be a Laodicean Christian. Don't misunderstand that, please. People say, well, it's it's just the times we're in, as as if you i it's okay to just be a part of the times. Look, I may be living in Laodicean days, but I don't want to be a Laodicean Christian. Remember the Laodicean church, the Bible says they're rich, increased with goods, and have need of nothing. It's a prospering church. And in their prosperity God declares them poor. Isn't that something? That in the midst of their prosperity they're rich, they're increased with goods, they have need of nothing. He said, You're wretched, you're poor, you're blind, you're miserable, you're naked. And so God's declaration is, in all of your prosperity, you actually live in poverty. It is a church without Christ. You look at it. Where is the Lord Jesus? The Lord Jesus in the Laodicean churches. If any man. If any man will open the door. You see, they it is a church without the Lord Jesus Christ. And friend, let me tell you something, a church without Jesus Christ is not the church of the living God. The Lord Jesus Christ is our Savior. He's our foundation. He's our reason for existence. And these are the these are this is the church of the last days, and therefore it's going to be a struggle And then notice the condition. He says, this know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. Perilous times. That word means hard to bear, painful or grievous? For who? For that crowd that's trying to continue For that crowd that's trying to go the right way. For that crowd that says, Look, I'm going to follow the word, I'm going to walk with the Lord I'm going to do what's right and pleasing. It's going to be a hard, painful, grievous time, but aren't you grateful for the great truth of the Word of God that we can continue even in the struggle? Then notice the trouble. He i it's going to be a struggle because of the times. And by the way, you can't do one thing about the times. A lot of people say, well, if I just lived in a different time. Well guess what? You don't have I mean, I've said that, I've said it, and I've believed it. I mean, look, I I'd like I I've often thought, if if I could have just been born 150 years earlier. That'd suit me. That'd be a better time so far as my I'm concerned. But that isn't where the Lord put me. And so this is the time, and by the way, these are the times that we're living in, and just as they're described here I believe it's an apt description of the times that we're currently in. But now look at the trouble. He begins in verse 2 all the way to verse 4 and gives 19 attributes of the characters of the last days. What will men be like? And rather than go through all of them, I want you to look at three things. Number one, I want you to look at their consideration. Verse two, their consideration is self. Do you see that? Men shall be lovers of their own selves. That's what they care about. The characters of the last day, the great host of the last day will be the people who love themselves. And by the way, we're there. We're the selfie generation, aren't we? And self is the you know self is what we live for. Self is is all it's i I mean it's all about self. Men are lovers, they love themselves. They love themselves more than anything else. And he goes on to talk about those that love themselves as being covetous, proud boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy Those are all outgrowths of being lovers of their own selves. Then notice this: not only their consideration, but their conduct. Look in verse 3, without natural affection. That's the conduct. Without natural affection. Going against what's normal. We were just in Ohio there yesterday and Thursday and And uh there in the lake right there, Atwater Lake, there was an uh a mother who took a little four-year-old boy and just threw it out in the lake and let it die. And the father, I guess, in despair, he swam out into the lake and he drowned. Then she got her her teenage children and and put them in, they were Amish people, and she put them in the buggy and they drove that buggy off the end of the pier. And she tried to drown them two along with herself and somebody saved all three of them. You say, what is that? Without natural affection. Do you know why the most unsafe place for a little child to be in this age is in its mother's womb? Without natural affection. It's not normal for a mother to want to kill its child. That's not normal. That's without natural affection. It's without natural affection for men to desire men and women to desire women. What are we talking about? We're talking about the conduct of the last days. It's without natural affection. And I want you to go on and read this. It says, because of that, these are the outgrowths of that truth breakers, false accusers. incontinent fierce despisers of those that are good. Now look at verse four Traders, heady, high-minded lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God. Do you see what's consuming? Love pleasure. Loving pleasure more than we love God. Making pleasure God. Making pleasure the idol. And we bow at the altar of pleasure and and we we we forsake the altar of the Lord. Men love pleasure. By the way, beloved, listen, that that mentality, that mindset, that thought process has increased Compassed and often encapsulated the local church. And you know what we've become about in the local church? Well, we want to have fun. Let's just be a people that have fun. I've got news for you, friend. God didn't put you here to have fun. He put us here to bring glory to his name. And and the church that is bowing and it bothers me greatly. Oh look, you can have fun serving the Lord. But our whole purpose is not be here to have fun. Our purpose here is to do the work and will of God and to glorify Him as a people. And listen, the the privilege that we have in these last days is to serve the Lord. And it is a privilege and it is a pleasure. But notice this, it's not our goal and aim. And the last days will be eaten up with this consuming desire to love pleasure more than they love God. That's why Sunday is now Funday instead of the Lord's Day. And that's why it it many of God's people, what the Lord's been stirring me and I hope to get to this eventually, about the Lord's Day and how significant and special it is and how it ought to be recognized and dedicated to Him. Because it is the Lord's Day. It's a day like no other day. But men will love pleasures more than they love God. And the sad thing is a lot of Christians have the same mentality that the Lord's day is no other day, no different than any other day than than the rest of the week, and they do as they please on that day. Lovers of pleasure is more than lovers of God. By the way, church, we're going the other way. But continue thou. That's not the course we're taking. That's not the conduct we're involved in. The Christian is called to be different. But continue thou in the struggle. Now, look with me, if you will, at the trend. Look in verse 5. Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof from such turn away. Notice their covering, they have a form. We've already talked about this a little bit. I remind you that the form of godliness is just a shell to salve a guilty conscience. It's just that that ointment, if you will, to put on the outside to make you feel better. And and and it's it it is a fake religion, it's a false religion, it's a form of godliness. But notice not only their covering, but notice the concern here is that they have no power. My friend, as you study the Word of God, you find out that God is a God of power. He's a God of great power. He has power to save. He has power to secure us. He has power to satisfy us. He is a God of great power. Doctor Etchens taught in Sunday school about creation and how all things were created by him. That's power. I mean that's real power. You think about uh the extended universe in which we live. And no and look, you think about it, all he did, David said it in the Psalms, it's the work of his fingers. I don't know about you, my fingers don't accomplish a whole lot. They gotta have help of my hand and elsewhere. But listen, the fingers of God created the universe. Now that's power. The Bible says in Genesis 1, he spoke, let there be light. Immediately there was light. I'm talking about a God of power. But religion of the last days will be a perilous. You know what it'll mean? It'll mean people will conform, but they'll not be transformed. They'll fit in, but they'll not be redeemed by the grace of God. Now look, you can come to this church and learn the lingo. You can sit on these pews and start to fit in. You can uh acquire the accustoms and uh the customs and be a part of all that goes on here, but unless a saving work of God takes place in your heart, you will not be saved by grace. There must be a transformation. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, what is he? He's a new creature. Thank God he makes us brand new. Thank God for the saving grace of God. Listen, there's power in true Salvation. Yes, he'll take you like you are, but he won't leave you like he found you. Thank God for that work. But we see the command of this trend here, we're to turn away. Let me say this no true church is interested in being trendy. No true church is interested in being trendy. We're not going that way. We're going different way. But continue thou. Notice not only the trend, but look at the dealing with truth. Starting in verse number six, he says, For of this sort are they, which creep into houses and lead captive silly women, laden with sins, led away with diverss, ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. Now as Janies and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also resist the truth. Men of corrupt minds reprobate concerning the faith. But they shall proceed no fur further, for their folly shall be manifest unto all men as theirs also was. I want you to notice quickly the captives in verse 6. These it's called the scripture uses the term silly women. Now we're talking about powerless churches. We're talking about forms of godliness And please hear what I'm about to say, that the bulk of modern religion is led predominantly by females. And and now look, don't get your hackles up, but hear me out. Because the Bible tells us very clearly that the local church is to have a pastor who's the husband of one wife. And in that church are to be leaders in that church, and the leaders in that church are to be men. That's God's ordained order. And anything out of that is out of order. And doesn't operate like God wanted it to Now I thank God for godly women. Our church wouldn't exist without the godly women. There are things that are accomplished in this church that nobody else ever knows about that are accomplished by godly women. Praise God for them. Praise God for. But the church of the last days will be led By these captives. And notice what what they're captive , they're captive because of their can't. C-A-N-T is the word. They can't, verse 7, they can't come to the knowledge of the truth. Never able, ever learning. In other words, there's no dogmatism. There's no definite. There's no certainty. Just what we're learning and we're learning and we're learning and we're learning. Yeah, but what are you learning? Where is the conclusion? Where do you get listen, we were talking about this in chapel on Wednesday with the young people. Brother Dow, if any of you ever sat under Brother Dow, you know that he is a fan of math facts. Alright? He's borderline he's borderline addicted to math facts, you know. He loves them and he says you gotta learn them and he teaches them and he's always talking about math facts Well, math facts are the foundation of all the math that you'll do throughout. And and and listen, let me just get back to the ones that are easier for me. Two plus two is four. Amen. And and no matter what you do, you'll never change that fact. Two plus two will always be four. But we have gotten so insane in our and our our thinking that we are almost to the point that we do not have dogmatic definitions to two plus two. Well it might be four and it could be five and perhaps it'll be six. Or it might be seven. And we're living on a a a a basis of jello that's constantly trembling. But I've got some good news for you today. There are truths in the Word of God that you can come to, conclusions you can come to. There is a place called hell, and everybody who rejects Christ will go there. And if you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ of the saving of your soul, You will be born again and go to heaven. There are conclusions in the Word of God that we can come to, but listen, the church of the last day, they're taken by these captives who can't come to the knowledge of the truth, and then notice they're corrupt, verse 8. They're corrupt-minded. They're reprobate concerning the faith. You know why? Because they resist the truth. Don't bother me. Here's her mentality. Don't bother me with the truth, preacher. Don't bother me with the facts, preacher. I don't want to hear the truth. Just tell me what makes me feel good. Just tell me what makes me think I'm okay. Friend, if you're not okay, you don't need to be told you're okay. I if you're not okay, you don't need to be lulled to sleep thinking that you are okay. You need the alarm bell to sound, you need the warning to sound forth, the trumpet to blow. You need to know, friend, if you're not saved, that hell awaits you, that there's an eternity before you, that is, it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment. Oh, the truth of God will alarm us, but you see, these corrupt ones say, I don't want to hear it. I don't want to hear it. And then notice their calamity in verse nine. It says, but they shall proceed no further, for their folly shall be manifest unto all men as theirs also was. There's going to come a day that these that have rejected the truth, these that have rebelled against the truth, their full calamity will unfold and they'll begin to understand. They'll begin to see, but it'll be a too late. It 'll be too late then to know that, hey, I could have been saved and I could have gotten right with God and and now I can't, and and and their folly will be exposed before all. At the great judgment of God, my friend, the folly of mankind's going to glare. The folly of mankind. You know there's a lot of people who think they've got it good There's a lot of people today who think they're doing good. There's a lot of people today who look at their lives and think, man, my life's just perfect. But when eternity dawns, when eternity begins It's going to be exposed to , great folly. They're going to realize what a waste. What a listen, they're going to be Christians. The Bible says he's going to wipe tears out of our eyes up yonder. And the reason he's going to do that, because there's going to be a lot of waste. They're going to be looking back. Christians are going to say, Man, if I if I only would have. If I hadn't have wasted my life, if I hadn't have just been so selfish and lived for me, if I hadn't just listened to the Lord and and followed his will and sought what he desired for me, And they're going to weep and say, Oh God, what a waste. My my pile of ashes are large simply because I wasted my time There was a preacher who wasn't a preacher at the time. He was confronted by a man who said it is possible to have a saved soul and a wasted life. And he said when he walked away from that encounter, he said all he could hear was a saved soul and a wasted life. A saved soul and a wasted life. Alan Redpath. Alan Redpath said he he left that I I believe he was in a soccer match and he left that match and he and he and he went to the to to the hangout place somewhere where they were at and he said every song they played it it had the tune. Saved soul, wasted life. Saved soul, wasted life, saved soul, wasted life. He said, I walked down the street and every step I took said a saved soul and a wasted life And he got to his room and got on his knees and said, Oh God, I know I've got a saved soul, but I don't want to have a wasted life. And he surrendered himself to the Lord. Maybe that's you this morning. You need to surrender yourself to the Lord. You have a saved soul, but are you living a wasted life But you see, in the midst of all of these times and the trouble and the trends and the truth being rejected, do you know what God says to you, believer? But continue, thou But continue thou. These aren't quitting times, these are continuing times. These aren't times to say I'm finished, I can't do it, the struggle's too hard. But continue thou. Let me give you three thoughts about it quickly. Number one, it's a command. And can I encourage you with this? Everything God commands, He enables. God doesn't give you a command to do something you can't do. He gives you a command, and with that command comes the enabling to get it done. He enables us to do what he calls us to do, but continue thou, it is a command of the Lord. Not only do we have a command from the Lord, but I want you to notice we have a course. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned. What is that course? That course is it listen, the course is the word of God. If it's ever been right, it still is. And if it's ever been wrong, it still is. You see, there's no catching up with the truth. There's no catching up. Culture just does what culture does, but the Word of God is unchanging. You and I have a command here and we have a course to follow. But then I want you to think about this. All of this is in light of a coming. The Bible says that we're in the last days here in verse 1. And what's going to happen in the last days? Well, as we've been studying in Revelation, we realize that we're looking for someone. We're looking for someone. By the way, the whole world's looking for someone. I don't know if you follow, and and I don't follow it close, but I follow it close enough to know that the mindset of people, the mentality is we're looking for a great leader. We're looking, I mean that's the mindset. We're mesmerized with someone, someone come lead us, someone step up, and that's not just in America, that's around the world. Every country around the world is looking for a leader. Some have leaders, some don't have leaders, some have good ones, some have bad ones, but they're all looking for somebody that's got an answer. Do you have an answer to our moral uh uh moral failures? Do you have an answer uh to our our our disaster financially? Do you have uh uh an answer to our international conflict and they're looking for a man? Somebody give us a man. Now listen, church, we're looking for one too. But we're not looking for the same one they're looking for. My Bible says we're looking for the glorious appearing of the great God or Savior, Jesus Christ. That's who we're looking for. We're not looking for the man of sin. We're not looking for the beast and false prophet. We're not looking for that unholy trinity. We're looking for the Lord to come in heaven. We're looking for that glorious appearing. We're looking for Him to come. And listen, one of these days He will. The last days are not perpetual. The last days are not perpetual. They have an ending. They have an ending. There is a moment in time. There is a place fixed. There is a certainty that God has established and only He knows it that He will come. The last days will end. Now, my friend, are you ready? Church, continue thou. We're looking for someone. Yes, there's a struggle. Yes, there's the there's the times that we're living in. Don't get too caught up in the times. Get caught up in the truth. Truth's bigger than the times. Don't get so worried about the trouble. You know, a lot of times the trouble is our eyes are too much on people. We're looking to all these folks, we're looking at all these people, we're we're just troubled, we're troubled by what we see. We're troubled by what we see. We had a few minutes. I uh we got up yesterday morning and and uh Sarah wanted to go walk and we're trying to hurry this process up and so I've always been told walk and help, so we went to the Canfield Fair and we walked. We walked three miles in the fair, around and around. She had to stop and rest and And uh several times, but then we sat down and she and I were sitting there and we were watching people. And uh I'm telling you, I looked at her, I said, honey, we're in trouble. I said, look, if this is the world we're living in, we're in trouble. But but you know, I I got to thinking about that coming back home and As I was driving home, I'm meditating on this chapter and trying to get this thing in my heart, and as I'm thinking on that chapter, I got to thinking, yeah, the world may have been in trouble, but I'm not in trouble. There might be trouble around me, but hey, I've got heaven awaiting me. I'm looking forward. And listen, it has nothing to do with who I am. It's all because of what he did. My my hope and faith is in the Lord Jesus Christ. And oh what a difference he makes. Yeah, the world's in trouble, but that just tells me I'm just that much closer home. We're just that much nearer the sounding of the trumpet. We're that much closer to the Lord calling his people home And we know at that moment, here's a happy truth, we know at that moment when the trumpet sounds, the dead in Christ will rise first. And then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. My, what a day that's going to be when the Lord Jesus comes back. And friend, we're looking for. We're looking for that. If you want help this morning to continue, remember what you're looking for. Remember who you're looking for. Remember, listen, you're to continue in spite of the trouble. You're to continue in spite of the trend. I've said this many times, I'll say it again. I don't care what the church down the road is doing. I love them and pray for them, but we ain't following them. And I'm not talking about any one of them particular. I'm just saying we've got a call to follow the Word of God. We've got to follow the Lord as individuals. We must follow the Lord as a local church. But continue thou. But continue thou. And when the truth is rejected, you say, what do you do? But continue thou. When the truth is ignored, what do you do but continue thou? When the truth is no longer acceptable in our culture, what do you do but continue thou? A friend of mine called me from Quebec and he said, you know, he said it's going into the Parliament this this fall that uh we're no longer going to be allowed to pray in public or have public prayer. Uh it's going to be against the law. There it 's got such momentum behind it, he thinks it's going to carry. And he said, What do we do? And the first thought that came to my mind, but continue thou Just carry on. Just go on. Be faithful. You know, David In his life, faced a lot of struggle. If you take the time to look at King David's life, you'll find a man who fought battles, really from beginning to end. When you consider that David as a little boy knew that God had put in his heart to be king, and yet he had to face the battles with the giant and with all the other the brothers and all the other struggle There's a passage of scripture that I believe is sort of a hidden thing that tells us the greatness of David, and here's what it says. And David went on. David just went on. When David dealt with the Goliath and he dealt with all of the opposition of his brothers, and then he he dealt with Saul and all of his antagonism, David just went on. David just went on. He just kept going on. He just continued thou. When David uh would would deal with with other problems in his life, in his family, and even with himself When David failed. The greatness of King David is seen when he got up and washed his face and worshiped the Lord. And David went on. I'm just saying, friend, these aren't times to quit, these are times to go on. But continue thou. Hey, the struggle is fierce, but the Savior is faithful. Now, friend, some of you can't continue because you've never started You can't continue something you've never started. You say, what are you talking about? I'm talking about you need to be born again. The Bible is so clear on this. Heaven's not obtained through a church. You don't go to heaven because you light candles or pray prayers or get in the baptismal pool. We're not saved by works, we're saved by grace. The Lord Jesus made a uh made a payment, if you will. He he paid the sin debt in full when the Lord Jesus hung on Calvary's dark heel. There, as his blood flowed from his body, he was dying for the sin of the whole world. There he paid the price in full. Hear him cry those words, it is finished. Hear the Father say, Well done, my son. Hear the word of God make it clear that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. There's a lot of people today bound up in religion. It's such a terrible thing, and they think that they're getting to heaven by what they're doing. They're trying to do good, trying to be good. but they find out they're just empty on the inside, there's no reality, there's no assurance, there's no truth in that, and they they they just uh eventually give up a lot of times and say there's just no hope. Well there is no hope in religion. But there's hope in Jesus. There's salvation in the Lord Jesus. The Bible says neither is there salvation in any other, for there's no other name given among men. Whereby we must be saved. There's only one who'll save you, and he can save you. He will save you, beloved, if you'll call upon him. Oh, what a day it would be to understand that you need to be born again and to cry out to him for mercy. Then you say, What do I do? Then continue thou. Then continue thou. Then be then just follow the Lord. Just continue thou. I wonder this morning, ten years from now, how many will continue? Oh, I know we have a great heritage and I'm thankful for it. I do not take it for granted. But our heritage means nothing if we depart from it. Our history, if I if I can say it like this, our history won't keep us. We're not kept by what we were. We're kept by who we are. And whom we serve. But continue thou. Oh, for some believers. Who would just be honest this morning and say, Preacher, that struggle is real, but by the grace of God, I want to continue. I'm going to go on. There's an old song. I couldn't find it and save my life. I guess I wasn't supposed to. But this morning it the the song is I think I'll just go with God I know the title, I've I know some of the words. But the the song is just this the world's going this way, some of my friends are going that way, but I'm just gonna go with God. There needs to be some men and women who say, I'll just go with God. I'm just going to go with Him. It doesn't matter what my friends do, it doesn't matter what my church does, it doesn't matter what this one does. Here's what I'm going to do. I'll just go with God. May some folks get that in their heart this morning. I'll just go with God. See, if the Lord don't come, there'll be another generation come in here and fill these pews. They'll be one by one, if the Lord doesn't come, we'll make our crossing. And then you must continue thou. Have you made up your mind? Song says, I have decided to follow Jesus. No turning back. No turning back. My friend, I hope you've decided. If not, get it settled this morning. If you're not saved, cry out to him, he'll save you. It's not the posture of your body or the prayer you pray. For it's with the heart man believeth unto righteousness. And with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. If you'll call on him, he'll save you. I don't know the need of your heart today, but I trust the Lord will meet it. And we'll be tender to Him. There might be some Christians who are wavering , kind of waffling back and forth. Get it settled. Elijah stood on Mount Carmel and said, How long halt ye between two opinions? I like what Dr. Hitchens said. Evolution and creation both can't be true He had to get it settled. He had to decide. And listen, you you can't live for the world and live for the Lord, and you're gonna have to make up your mind. Somewhere or another, you're gonna have to get it settled Settle it today. Would you stand with me, please? Brother Dow wants you to come with our hymn. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed.