I hope you know that day is going to be a reality. The Bible says that He has blotted our transgressions out. He's removed them as far as the east is from the west. The problem is on this side of eternity, you and I still remember. And we've got an adversary called the devil, and he's the tormentor of the brethren, the accuser of the brethren. And one of his greatest tactics is digging up what God's buried behind his back. And he'll haunt you and hunt you with that sort of stuff and plague you. And in the most unusual and strange of times he'll bring up. You remember when? You remember that? But I'm glad they're There will come a day when I can't remember. Everything he forgot. Hallelujah. The Lord is good. Well, I want you to open your Bibles, please, to Second Timothy chapter number three. Second Timothy chapter number three And I want us to begin reading in verse number 14. 2 Timothy chapter number 3 and verse number 14. I'll invite you to stand with me, please. As we honor the reading of God's word together. I'm going to read to the end of the chapter. The Bible says, but continue thou in the things which thou hast learned, and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them, and that from a child thou hast known the Holy Scriptures which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture Is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. That the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. We're going to concentrate on those last two verses. Beginning with this tremendous statement, all scripture is given by inspiration of God. Father, as we bow before you in Jesus' name, we certainly acknowledge our great need. Lord, we need you to teach us. Speak to us. Help us. We thank you already for edifying and encouraging us. We thank you, Lord, for your speaking through the truth that has been sung already. But now, Father, we come to the preaching of your word and we acknowledge that without you we can do nothing. Lord, in mercy, behind this sacred desk, empty me of me and fill me with thee. And help me to lift up the Lord Jesus, hide me behind that blessed cross. Lord, I pray that you'd be glorified in our midst, and would you tender our hearts and let us hear from heaven, Lord, for we need you. We pray your will be done. Save the lost, reclaim the backslider, and strengthen your people, and we'll be careful to praise you for all the things that you do. For Lord, equally all of us have our eyes upon thee, and we pray in Jesus' name, and God's people said Amen. You can be seated. We're emphasizing in these days three little words. I believe there are three needed words for the hour that we're living in. But I also believe there are three key words to understanding this part of the Bible, this book, the second book of Timothy. I believe if you take those three little words and set them in front of , put near every verse in this book, it will give you greater insight as to what's being said. Those three little words are those words, but continue thou. We've looked at that statement here a couple of weeks ago. And in that statement is first a contrast, but he said In spite of , in the face of, regardless of. Yes, there will be perilous times. Yes, evil men will wax worse and worse. Yes, uh, it will be a difficult path, but Continue thou. The charge is is there. It's in the little word continue. It literally means keep going. Keep going. You know, perilous times aren't quitting times, they're continuing times. They're times to go on. They're times to continue faithful to the Lord. And then we looked at our concern, and it's in that one little word, thou. Thou. That means you. You continue. Don't worry about what everybody else does. Don't get caught up in the course of peer pressure. Don't follow the crowd. You make sure that you continue. But continue thou. That's the statement we have already examined. And then we looked at salvation, the continue thou of salvation. We must continue to tell the good news that Jesus saves. We must continue to believe what the Bible says about salvation. Salvation is not found in a church. Salvation is not found in a religion. Salvation is not found in yourself. No one's ever saved themselves. Salvation's not found in religious people. Salvation is in Jesus Christ. And you continue thou. We're to continue to preach and to believe the glorious message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But now we come to the continue thou of Scripture. But continue thou of Scripture. You see, this morning we need to remember that the Bible is God's truth for my need. It is God's truth. Now, folks, we've got to remember something that you've got a Bible you can trust. I fear today that we have sort of put this on a back burner, and in doing so, we uh began to undermine the foundation of our faith. If you didn't have a Bible, beloved, you wouldn't know how to get to heaven. If you didn't have a Bible, Uh, you wouldn't know how to order your life. In fact, I do believe that the Bible is a sufficient book upon which we can build our lives govern our nation, lead our families, build our churches, and stand on for all of eternity. I believe it's that big of a book. I believe the Bible is such that Peter, as Peter wrote, he said, whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises. that by these you might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. You know what he said? And in fact, if you go to the verse before that, he said, all things that pertain unto life and godliness have been given unto us. So everything I need is contained right here in this book. Everything I need is found in the precious Word of God. I believe with the Bible a man can pastor a church. I believe with the Bible you can raise your family. I believe with the Bible you can find the way to heaven. I believe with the Bible you can avoid the flames of hell I believe with the Word of God we can charge the powers of darkness, and we can stand on the grounds of righteousness, and we can bring glory to God with just a Bible. Now, folks, if we ever get to the place around here that we need more than the Bible, we're in trouble. If we ever get to the place that we say, Well, preacher, I need my emotions stirred. I need my feelings aroused. I need my intellect impressed. Lord help us. You've got a Bible. And I've got a Bible. And thank God we have a Bible that will show us the way. Now, as we study this passage of Scripture, I want you to notice several things about the Scripture. Number one, I want you to notice the totality of inspiration. Look what it says in the text. All scripture is given by inspiration of God, not some scripture Not part scriptures, not not not the concept of Scripture, not the thoughts of Scripture, not the ideas of Scripture, but all Scripture is given by inspiration of God. Friend, let me say to you this morning that if one portion of the Bible is suspect, it all can be. If I can't trust in the beginning God created, then I've got to have the hard time trusting you must be born again. If I've got questions about something written in the Word of God in the Old Testament, then equally I should have questions about something written in the Word of God in the New Testament. That's why our Bible makes it clear that all Scripture is given by inspiration of God. The totality of the Word of God. By the way, Jesus believed in the whole Bible. Do you know that? He quoted out of 14 books of the Old Testament. And in Luke, in fact, go over here and look at it. I don't want you to take my opinion. That's why you bring your Bible to church. Luke chapter 24. In verse number 44, Jesus in one statement validates the whole Old Testament. The entire Old Testament. Luke chapter number 24, verse 44, look what Jesus said. And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you. While I was yet with you. Now listen to this, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses. So that covers the first five books. That's the law of Moses. And in the prophets, and in the Psalms concerning me. Do you know what Jesus said? The whole Old Testament's true. You can trust what the Old Testament says. I validate it. And by the way, here's what it boils down to. You've just got to decide who you're going to stand with You've just got to determine who you're going to believe. Are you going to believe the intellectuals, the scholars, the critics who seem to join together in line and say, well, you can't trust it all. Or are you going to believe the risen Son of God who went to the cross and died for your sin, was buried and rose again the third day, and said you've believed the whole Bible? I think I'll just side with him. I don't know about you. You've got to make up your own mind. But there is a totality of inspiration. Then I want you to notice. The transmission of inspiration. All scriptures given by inspiration. This is how God gave his word. And if you'll flip over to 2 Peter with me real quick. And look in chapter number one, verse number 19, we're given insight as to how the Bible came to be. Now this Bible is a supernatural book. It's a book like no other. It's not like a magazine you own. It's not like some novel you've read. It's not like any other book you've got in your library. It is a supernatural book. Second Peter chapter number one, verse nineteen says this we have also a more sure word of prophecy, whereunto you do well that you take heed as unto a light that shineth in a dark place. Until the day dawn and the day star arise in your hearts. Knowing this first that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation. Now look at verse 21. The prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. That's how you got your Bible. God spoke, man wrote. God spoke, man wrote. God spoke, man wrote. And the beauty of it is, is he didn't override who they were. That their personality, have you noticed that your personality colors everything you do? Your personality covers it colors everything you do. You see that beautifully in the Gospels. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, you see the personalities of these men coming through. You see the Dr. Luke with all of his important details and his interest in details putting details in Luke, we don't get anywhere else. You see the personality of Mark, who was, I don't know, maybe he was one of the early ADHD disciples, right? Maybe he was one of them excitable. He never says anything deep or elaborate. He just sort of gives the highlights as he speeds through his record. That yet here's what we know on the authority of God's Word is that it is all God breathed. God breathed it. God spoke, man wrote. God spoke, man wrote. It is how we got our Bible And while I'm there, let me just take a side road for just a few minutes and talk about the importance of preservation. I read the text in Psalm 12 that he said he will preserve his word. Let's go over there again, in case you didn't mark that reference down. In Psalm 12, here's a promise God made about his word. Now let me say this, inspiration means nothing without preservation. If God does not keep his word and guard his people say, Well, I believe in the originals. Well, can I ask you a question? Where are they? Where where are they? That's right. Well I I believe that he inspired well I believe he inspired the originals, but I also believe that he's preserved what I possess now. You say, preacher, what are you trying to say? Please hear me plainly. We believe that God preserved his word, especially for the English-speaking people in the King James Bible. An inspiration without preservation is a a straw man. It has no leg to stand on. But look at what Psalm 12 says. The words of the Lord, not just the concept, not just the ideas. Not just the thought, but the words, the very words of the Lord are pure words. As silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. Look at verse 7. Thou, that's God, shalt keep them O Lord, thou shalt preserve them, watch this, from this generation forever. Forever. God said, I'm going to keep my word. I'm going to preserve my word. I'm going to ensure that every generation has the word of God. Now, I don't want to get going this direction a long way, so that's the only thing I'll do this morning, but I do want to say this. If you'll study, you'll find out there's only two streams that bring us what are called Bibles today. Two streams. Actually, you could start back with two cities. It's a tale of two cities and two streams. You have one Antioch and that stream where the pure Word of God comes that our King James Bible comes from. And you've got Alexandria, which through that comes the corrupt, perverted translations That take away from the authority of a Bible you can trust. I've been pastoring six months And I was sitting in the office with a little boy who had gotten convicted over his sin. He had an NIV Bible, and here's what he said to me, very profound. He said, Why does this read different than what you read? And God was dealing with him by getting saved. He asked that question, and and listen, beloved, when he asked that question you could see confusion come in his little mind. And as he looked at that and he looked at me, he said, So which one do I trust? That little boy had more sense and honesty than all of the professors you could pack in a jetliner. And fly around the earth. That little boy, he never made a profession. He when that confusion came in his little mind, he was like, Well, I don't know who to trust. And we know on the authority of the precious Word of God that the devil is the author of confusion. That confusion comes from him If you're confused, it's the devil's doing. He's behind all that. He doesn't want you to get settled and rested on an authority like the Word of God. He wants you to have a question mark always in the back of your mind. By the way, isn't that the way he works? Back yonder in the Garden of Eden, he put a question mark and said, Yea, hath God said And he still does that craziness today. And he does it through the multiplied translations that are called Bibles. Now that corrupts screen You need to know this and and listen, if you've not studied this out for yourself, you say, Well, I know good men that believe. Well, I know good men that are wrong. But i if you want to study it out, I I bought I bought these to give away to young Christians and people who were interested in the subject, and I put a bunch of them on the back table. They're yours, take them. And it talks about why you can believe the King James Bible is the Word of God. I'm just saying that this morning simply because inspiration means nothing if we don't have preservation. If God hadn't watched over it from the time he gave it until we got it, we're in trouble. But we've got evidence upon evidence that God's preserved his word. Now the beauty of this thing is, this is a beautiful thing. When you study that, I I read this book again this this one afternoon. It's an easy read, 150, 160 pages. Read it just a little bit of time in the afternoon and reminded myself of how thankful I am that I have a King James Bible. Because listen, you can trust what it says. It is the blessed word of God Now those streams of translation, do you know, uh by the way, some of you have King James Bibles that have in the notes that say, Hear me out now, the oldest and best manuscript. That's a reference to Westcott and Hort. They are the men who gave birth to that sort of thinking. And here's what they said. They said, we found ancient texts, one in the papal library in Rome, called the Vaticanus, and then the Synaticus they found in an old monastery in the waste basket In a monastery on Sinai. And they took those two old manuscripts and they began to correct what they believed was wrong, and they came up with about 10,000 total changes. And it's interesting to me that when you look at the changes, it has a direct attack on the deity of Christ, on the virgin birth of Christ, on the resurrection of Jesus Christ. It seems to central or focus its attack or dilution on the truth of God's word about Jesus. Now the only one I know that hates Jesus real bad is the devil. And so again, you need to know this morning that the Bible you have, God is supernaturally watched over. This little book, as you read it, will tell you how God brought together that team of superior translators And a team of of men with superior uh uh skills and abilities and people say, well, uh, you know, that that King James is just too hard to understand I think it's just too plain for folks who can't understand. It's got language that just sort of rubs us the wrong way. Why? Because the Bible doesn't stutter when it speaks. It speaks with clarity and with authority. But God has preserved his word. Now, here's what it c again, it it just comes down to. Do we believe God can preserve it? Or we're just kind of subject to uh a little bit of uh of of poison here and there. And and can I just ask you, how much are you willing to take? Do you know the New King James Bible is a translation, not out of the pure Not out of that pure stream. That new King James goes back and agrees with Westcott and Horton and makes changes that are s that are in line with that. And I'll tell you, you know the most subtle thing is the thing that almost looks like the real. My dad used to tell me my dad was uh he was terrified of snakes And living where we did, it was a good reason, you know. You you didn't mess with them, you didn't get bit, and you didn't get bit, you lived, right? And uh there were some snakes that looked like poisonous snakes, but they weren't poisonous And I remember Dad never worrying about examining the where whether they were poisonous or not, he just killed them all. He would often say that the a good snake's a dead one. Now don't come to me after with your green peace and tree hugging thoughts. I I don't I don't have time. I'm too old to worry about that kind of thing But he said, listen, I I I l you you don't need to be worried about uh figuring out if that one's uh poisonous or not poisonous. He said if it looks like it is, treat it like it is and let it be. Now listen to me, that new King James was put out not so that you could understand, but so that some publishing company could make some money. Let's just be real about that. That the greater part of this translation thing is not a matter of making the Bible available, readable, acceptable. It's making somebody a whole lot of money because there's a market for it. Now please understand me this morning that God has preserved his word. And you need to know that for yourself. You need to know that. And if you're interested enough and diligent enough Take one of these home, study it yourself, and you will begin. This may just open a door. It may crack open a door, and you'll begin to discover that, yes, I do have a Bible I can trust. I thank God for my King James Bible. But listen, the King James Bible does not just contain the Word of God, it is the Word of God. It is God breathed. Now, I I know I run the risk this morning of being called a Ruckmanite, which I am not. And being called a host of other things, which I am not, but I'm going to be called something anyway, so I might as well just stand for what's right. But the truth of the matter is, look, we don't believe in double inspiration. We do not believe around here that God inspired those translators of the King James like he did the originals. But we do believe there's a God big enough, if he can inspire a Bible, he can preserve one. If God is big enough to breathe his word, he's big enough to keep his word. If God can communicate from God's mouth the man's ear and put it on on his hand and he can write it out, Then surely God's able to keep it from generation to generation so that we know we have the Bible. And I'm not saying that arrogantly. I'm telling you something. I'm convinced of this intellectually and spiritually that we have the Word of God. As I studied this this week, my mind went back to my Bible school days. A dear old man came from Michigan, Brother Howard Andres. He's in heaven now. And he had pastored up there for years and his body had gotten broken down, his health was not good, but he still had enough in him to be able to teach and and and help us there at the college. And he taught a course on the Bible, and he started that course this way. How do you know you have the Word of God? Now, Dr. Hitchens has trained young men for years, and if you want to light a fuse Just make it sound like, especially around the young preachers that are zealous, you're questioning the Word of God. You talk about going up in arms. Buddy, every young man in that class started looking at each other and whispering back and forth. And Brother Andrews sat up there and smiled, and we thought, well, he's just a senile old Yankee that don't believe the Bible, and we'll just get through this class, but we'll go tell the preacher on him. And so we elected a delegate of authorities to go and tell preacher, and I was among that crowd. And we went and I remember sitting in the pastor's office and said, Preacher, you got a heretic in the school. He said, I do. Who is it? I said, Mr. Howard Andrus. He does not believe God's preserved his word. He said, Really? I said, Yes, sir. What did he say? He said, How do you know the Bible, the King James Bible is the Word of God? And I'll never forget what the preacher did. He kind of leaned back at his desk and rubbed his chin. He said, Boys, do you know? How do you know? Now we wouldn't dare call the preacher a heretic, he had whoop us. So we all dropped our heads and left his office and went about our way. But I'll tell you what we did over that next semester. We had every free moment we had was in the library. Every opportunity we had, we were sitting down talking. And buddy, we made us uh an argument because Brother Andrus had said at the end of the year I'm going to give you guys a night to tell me why you believe the Bible's the word of God. And so we were we were loaded for bear. We had a whole semester doing. We come to that class, and man, I remember every one of us, and you gotta be a young preacher to understand what I'm saying. I mean, we were frothing at the mouth for this battle. This was the battle of the ages. I'm telling you, we're going to kill the giant of unbelief. And this was going to go down as historic in the annals of the Trinity Baptist Bible College. And Dr. Anders got up and he said, Young man, I know that I told you I'd give you the class and I will. But here's what I want you to do: I want you to listen to my defense first. And for forty-five minutes he intelligently articulated why the King James Bible is the Word of God. When he got through, he said, okay, now who's first? Nobody had enough guts to get up and say Because he believed what we believed. He made it so very clear and much more intelligently than any of us had the ability to do at that time. And then I'll never forget what he said. He said, Now men He said, you reacted the first part of the year. He said, tonight you're ready to respond. Learn the difference. Wouldn't you know it the very next semester he would be appointed to be my mentor for my last year in college? And I had to go meet with him every single week. And uh I'd been pastoring for three years at that time and he was helping me uh with my church and different things and I remember the first meeting, I was so embarrassed, I I thought I gotta get this right. And I went into his house and he was so warm and cordial and so so kind and I said, Brother Andrus, I gotta apologize. He looked at me, he said, about the Bible? I said, yes, sir. He said, no apology needed He said, I just wanted you young men to know that you know what you believe. Then why? Not because somebody told you. Not because you have a re a knee-jerk reaction. But because you're convinced in the depths of your person that you have a Bible you can trust. He said, if you walk off of this campus and all you've got are the opinions of professors, you'll fail. But if you walk off this campus with the confidence in the authoritative word of God He said, God will sustain you. And I'm saying, Marinatha Baptist Church, if we ever start putting question marks where God's put periods, we're heading out of business We're going downhill on a slippery slope. I'm glad I've got a Bible I can trust. I've got a God who's alive. And listen, I don't have to worry about being embarrassed by the intellectuals and the critics and the scholars because God has given me his word and God has protected it. Now I know that sort of thing rubs folks the wrong way. Lord bless them. Help them to turn around and go the right way. But we see the transmission. Now notice quickly the treatment. It's profitable. The Bible is profitable. What's it profitable for? Number one, doctrine. That's the clear teaching of Scripture. The Bible is our basis for doctrine, not tradition. One of the reasons I'm suspect of that polluted stream of Bibles is because the Catholic Church don't have a problem with them. And the Catholic Church is built on tradition. And tradition, my friend, will damn souls to hell. Truth will set you free. And what you've got in the Bible is not a conglomeration of tradition. What you've got in the Bible is the truth of the living God. It's good for doctrine. It's profitable for reproof. That means to expose what's false. The Bible takes the cover off, turns the light on. Shows you what's what's what's lies, what what's lie, what's not true. It exposes what's false. And then the Bible is profitable for correction. That means it will plainly show you how to straighten up. Somebody said that correction is how to get right. And then instruction in righteousness is how to stay right. That's what the Bible is profitable for. Doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness. It's good. If I can just make it plain this morning, it's good for what ails you. When you come here, you don't need to hear my opinion. Because you you know my opinion's like yours. It you know that and a couple of dollars will get you a cup of coffee. It's meaningless. But you do need to hear the word. The very next chapter, chapter 4, verse 1, he's charging young Timothy, verse 2, he says, preach the word. You know why? Because you need the words, you need the truth. Sometimes you need the teaching, the doctrine, sometimes you need the reproof, you need the exposing of what's wrong. Sometimes you need correction and and sometimes you need instruction in righteousness, but the Bible does all of that in a in one swift way. Thank God for the Bible. Then quickly look at the tool that he mentions here. The man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. The grand and glorious purpose of the Word of God is to equip God's man to do God's work, do it God's way, to preach the word. We've done a disservice to our churches by putting professors and not preachers in the pulpit. You notice what he said? There'll come a time when they'll not endure sound doctrine, but heat to themselves. Do you notice what it is? Teachers having ischineers. Teachers don't proclaim with authority. Now, the preacher is to be a teacher as well. But his calling is to preach the word. And the last days there's going to be an appetite for the teaching that tickles the ear, the teaching that sort of salves the conscience. The teaching that is not so dogmatic nor so authoritative. And beloved brother, sister in Christ, we need the authoritative word of God in our lives. I'm glad I had a father who was authoritative. I'm just gonna tell you right now. I know me now as fifty-two years old, I know me, and I know if I didn't have an authoritative daddy, I'd be a shipwreck today. I needed somebody that said, I'm the boss, you're listening. If you don't listen, here's the consequences. And he didn't care if you hurt my feelings. You know. In fact he is real good at hurting my feelings. He hurt him a lot. And he hurt other things too besides my feelings. But it all needed hurting, amen But I'm grateful for that kind of authority in my life. I needed that authority. Folks, we live in a day where authority is being rejected and cast off and People don't want an authority in their lives. They don't want parents to be an authority. They don't want any kind of law to be an authority. But I'm here to tell you there's an authority that rises above all of that, and you need it in your life, or you will shipwreck You need the authority of God's word saying, This is the way, walk ye in it. And I thank God I have a Bible that does just that. Some of you that may God may be dealing with about preaching. Listen to what I'm about to say. I'm not against getting a degree, but before you need a degree, you need a Bible. And you can do with the Bible what you cannot do with the degree. You can do with the Word of God. Our churches have gotten mesmerized by Dr. This and that and thus. And they bring in men that don't believe the Bible. And they wonder why their churches are fail are are failing and weak. I'm not talking about getting full. You can fill stadiums today if you have a good enough ball game. I'm talking about people that stand and are strong in the Lord and in the power of his mind. Why? Because they don't believe the Word of God Now, I'm glad my pastor said our theme for our Bible college was an intellect on fire. He said, I want you men to know and have the touch of God on what you know. And that's important. I believe that's critical. But I'm saying that if you know the Word of God, let's get back to the basics Let's go back to those first men who are the foundation, who built the foundation of uh of the church, if you will. Let's go back to the apostles. Here's a group of unlearned men, and it's even stated so in the Word of God by their enemy. These men are unlearned men, but they've been with Jesus. These men knew the truth. And my friend, what you need more than anything else is not the approval the accolades, the acclaim of man, you need the word of God. And when you take this Bible and say, I'm going to make it my rule book, I'm going to make it my my book of study. I'm going to make it my life, this book will make the difference in your life. Timothy, take heed to the doctrine. Take heed to your doctrine. Take heed to what you believe. Because in doing so, you'll save yourself and them that hear you. Oh, we need a Bible. The preacher needs a Bible. The devil did a masterful thing when he took the Bible out of the preacher's hands. Years of my first church I pastored was born out of a split because the church called a pastor who his first Wednesday night brought a stack of books that high. And said, I want to teach you why you cannot believe the first five books of the Bible. Come in under the guise of being a Bible-believing man And he spent the next six months trying to teach them that they can't trust Genesis or Exodus or Leviticus. And thank God there were enough people with backbone that said, you know what? That man needs to be saved. That man doesn't need to be in our pulpit. And there wasn't enough of them to throw him out, so they said we'll move down the road and start a place where the Bible is still believed and preached and loved. And I say, bless the Lord that did it. Because the reality is if a church don't have a Bible, she's got no business being open. Well, may the Lord help us to continue in the scripture. Now if you'll be patient, it's eleven fifty-eight, and I've give you my introduction. I want to give you my message now. Three thoughts about continue thou in the scripture. Three thoughts, don't miss them. Number one, continue to trust the Bible. Trust it. I mean trust it everything you got. Trust it from cover to cover. Trust what you know, what you understand, trust what you don't understand. Trust what's clear, trust what's not clear Trust it all because God gave it, God's breathed it, you can rest on it. It's true whether you can figure it out or not. Now there's a lot of things I can't figure out about electricity, but I still use it. I'll turn that switch on. I don't know all the intricate details about how it works. It might be somebody does, but I don't. But it's not gonna make me sit around here in the dark when I can go back there and flip a switch and turn it on. Trust your Bible. In Psalm 27, 14, David said, I had fainted Unless I had believed to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. How did he believe? What did he believe? He believed the Bible He didn't have all the Bible I've got, but he had enough of it that he could hang on to. And he said, I didn't faint because I believed. I kept going because I believed. This crowd, you know what this crowd does? They question mark themselves into absolute rejection of truth. I don't know. Can you really trust that King James Bible? Next thing you know, they've got something else and then something else and then something else and then something else. And then finally they say, I don't need that. Got more questions than they do faith. Trust your Bible. Continue thou. Mother, dad, grandmother, granddad, dear old saint, dear brother, sister in Christ, keep trusting your Bible. Your Bible's more reliable than some educated idiot that says it's not. Your Bible's more reliable than the devil who constantly attacks it. Your Bible's more reliable than your own feelings about it and thoughts concerning it. Just trust your Bible. Rest your head on the promises of God's Word, and you'll find a good place to sleep. Trust your Bible. Number two, turn to your Bible. Turn to your Bible. You know today we live in such a strange time, we search everything but the Bible. This book's got answers Google can't give you. You better believe that. You can Google a lot of things, but you can't Google truth. Turn to your Bible, be a student. Jesus said, search the scriptures. The noble Bereans were acknowledged because they searched the scriptures daily to see if those things were so. I've told you, I'll continue to tell you, hold me accountable to the Bible Not your opinion of the Bible, not your thoughts about the Bible. I'm not interested in your views on the Bible. I'm just interested in the Bible. Hold me accountable to the Bible. These deacons know. I tell them again and again and again, if I ever preach anything but the Bible, come at me with the Bible. Turn to your Bible. Search the Bible. Christianity is like everything else in this old world. It's gotten lazy. Have you noticed how popular that these weight loss drugs are and all these other things? I was talking to my dear old doctor about something, and uh I was asking, you know, what was available here and there, and he said, look. He said there's just a few things that are going to help you get to where you need to be. Eat less, move more I said, I don't like that. He said, I don't care if you like that. You need that. Eat less, move more. Eat less, move more. Every time we go in, I I say, oh I'm going to save myself $150. Let me say it so you don't charge me for it. Eat less, move more. Now tell me the rest. But but the truth is, it still works. It's a reality. And and dear beloved, listen, you and I need to get over the laziness of our spirituality. You should not believe what you believe simply because it's spoken from a pulpit, simply because you've heard a preacher say it, simply because your church believes it. You need to believe what you believe because you found it in the Word of God yourself, and you know the Bible says it, and therefore you believe it. Be a student of the Word of God. Then finally teach the Bible Timothy was Paul was real concerned that Timothy would do something here important. In 2 Timothy 2. 2, he said, The things thou hast heard of me among many witnesses. The same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. Timothy, you teach that book. You know, in my mind, I'm just Sharing what's been stirring in my heart. I've been thinking about having a faithful men Bible study, maybe on a Tuesday night or some other night Men that are interested in knowing what the Bible says and being encouraged and studying together. Just simply what the Bible says. Why? Because we got to transmit, we've got to pass this on to another generation. Hey, m moms and dads, you teach that Bible in your home. The church should never take the place of your house. Well, I send my kids to youth groups so they learn the Bible. Shame on you. You go map the Bible yourself and you tell them. You tell them what the Bible says. That home needs to be a place where there's Bible instruction given. Mama, Daddy, there ought to be some instruction given to those children Timothy got the best education of the Bible, not from the Apostle Paul, but from his dear old mother and grandmother. That's what Paul said. And you and I need to pass it on. You know the Bible pattern is the older women teach the younger women, the older men teach the younger men. That's the Bible pattern. The problem is, is that, like the scripture says, they being ignorant taught one another. We often teach one another in our ignorance the things that ought not to be taught because we don't know what the Bible says. I'm saying to you, there ought to be somebody. If you learn something, you ought to tell somebody about it. If you learn something, you ought to pass it on. You say that's the preacher's job. No, that's every Christian's job. Teach the truth. But continue thou. The continue thou of the scriptures. Oh, I know it's perilous times I know the general populace isn't interested. I know the course of religion is going another way. Oh, I know that the unbelief is spreading across the land. But continue thou in the scripture. May God let Marinatha Baptist Church be a bastion of truth in a world that's decaying in the lies of hell. May the Lord help us. And you know how that'll happen? Not just because of the pulpit, but because of the pew. The men and women who sit on these pews who know what the Bible says. I go back to that fateful day when that little band of believers said, that's not what the Bible says. And you know the sad part is, 80% of that congregation said, we don't care. Let's hear what he's got to say. They didn't know the truth well enough to spot a lie. May God help us. May the Lord help us. To know the truth. Every one of us, male, female, young, old, doesn't matter. May the Lord help us to know the truth so we can see the lies when they come. Continue thou, all scripture. Thankful from old Bible. Glad God's given me a book that I can live on and die on. Book I can state my eternity on. And if you're not saved, do you know what this old book says? It says you must be born again. If you're not saved, you're not been born again, you're not going to heaven, you can because Jesus Christ died for your sin. That's what this Bible says. It says that he was buried and rose again the third day. And my dear friend, if you're not right with God and where you ought to be spiritually, do you know this Bible says that you can come to Him? Matthew 11, 28 tells us, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden. I don't think he's talking to lost people there. I think he's talking to the old burdened-down Christian who's maybe been out here drinking in the mud holes of the world. He said, Come to me. I'll give you rest. If you're not right with God, come to him and get rest. Come to him and get right. Come to him and get that sin forgotten, like the kids were singing about these young people, these young adults were singing about. Come to him and say, Lord, forgive me and you know what he'll do? He'll forgive you and he'll forget it. And one of these glad days when he says, Come up hither, we'll go up yonder, and we'll forget too the thing that he forgot, and it'll all be gone. Thank God for all of eternity. May the Lord help us to do business with him this morning. Would you stand with me, please? Heads are bowed or eyes are closed. Father, please.