I do believe that that is the desire of everyone who's truly born again. We do want to be more like the Lord Jesus. And I believe that's the longing that the Spirit of God puts in your heart when you get saved by the grace of God. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to 2 Corinthians chapter number 6. 2 Corinthians chapter number 6. And I'm going to begin reading in verse number 14 and read to the end of the chapter, which is verse number 18. And when you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand, please. As we honor the reading of God's Word. Second Corinthians chapter number six and verse number fourteen Says, be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And what communion hath light with darkness? And what concord hath Christ with Belial? Or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God As God hath said, I will dwell in them and will walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Wherefore, come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing. And I will receive you, and will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. The Lord helping me this evening, I want to preach a message on dabbling with darkness And if you're not familiar with the word dabbling, the word dabbling means to take part in an activity sort of in a casual and superficial way. And I'm afraid there are a lot of Christians that are doing just that very thing. That are dabbling with darkness. You pray, please pray. I want to express my heart. My heart's exercised greatly. over the message tonight and and and I want the Lord to help me in a special way. So you pray for me, please. Let's pray. Father, as we bow in Jesus' name, we acknowledge the great need in our lives for your help. Lord, I'm grateful that you remember that our frames are but dust. And Lord, we need the very life and breath and help of God. And Lord, I especially need help now to stand where no man can stand alone. And in mercy, would you hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up the Lord Jesus? I pray, Father, for your Spirit to do His work in our hearts, and I pray you'd be pleased with all that goes on here this evening. And so, Father, we look to you now. We trust that you'll give help to both the hearer and the preacher, and you'll undertake for the great need of every heart. And we'll praise you for what you do, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. I want to give you just a brief outline of this passage of scripture because I believe it's very important. I know it's a well-known passage. In fact, it's a well-used passage. It's a part of your Bible that is often referred to in a lot of instances of life. I especially want to hone in on one question. And that question is found in verse number 14, the very last one. What communion hath light with darkness? What communion hath light with darkness? Now in the passage here we find a command starting out in verse number 14. The Bible says very clearly, be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. That's a command from the Lord. You say, preacher, what does it mean to be yoked together? It means to be joined in partnership or joined in relationship. Know this that as a believer you've got a command from God that draws perimeters around the activity of your life. And the Bible makes it very clear here that we are not to be unequally yoked. That means that a lost man and a saved woman, or vice versa, has no business getting married. That's unequally yoked. You know, you're talk I believe it was Vance Hadner who said if that ever happens, you're gonna have trouble with your in-laws. Talking about the devil. And boy, isn't that the truth You're not going the same direction, being you not unequally yoked. I believe it it extends into every area of our lives that we need to be careful. I have friends who made the fatal mistake of going into business adventures with lost people and they lost. You know why saved people and lost people don't do business the same way. You're not going the same direction. There's a difference in your lives. So here is a command from the Lord. A command. Now look, I gotta remind you tonight that God doesn't give commands without cause. If he gives a command, there's a reason for it. And so he gives us this command, and then he gives us the calls, and that starts in the form of five questions and one statement. Now, by the way, it should be known and go without stating the answer to all these questions. But in all of these, five times he asks the question, Or lays out the statement, what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? Is there any fellowship? Is there any common ground? What communion hath light with darkness? What concord and what kind of joining together does Christ have with Belial? You're talking about two opposing forces, two opposing individuals. And then he asked the question: what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? Those are the five questions. And the answer is none, absolutely none. You cannot merge the two. Now watch what he says. For ye, here's the statement, are the temple of the living God. Do you know why you can't live in darkness? Because light lives in you. God is light. And in him is no darkness at all. Watch what he goes on to say. God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Now God has made it very clear this is the cause. This is why we cannot dabble in darkness because we have been made the children of light. Now notice thirdly, I see a call here, and that comes in verse number 17. This is God's call. It's God's call to everybody who's saved here this evening. It's God's invitation to you. Here's what he says. Wherefore? Come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing. It's a call from God. By the way, it applies to every area of life. It applies to every area of life. And then the f the last part, the fourth part of this outline, is we see the closeness, and that's found in the latter part of verse 17 and 18. He says, and I will receive you. See, separation is from And the end too or unto. We come out so we can go in. I'm glad when they come out of Egypt, God just didn't leave them in the wilderness. He brought them out of Egypt to bring them into Canaan. He didn't bring them out just to let them wander. He didn't bring them out just to let them starve to death and walk in circles. Now their disobedience put a 40-year extension on their going into the land, but eventually God got them in the land because he brings us out that he might bring us in. I think sometimes we focus so much on the bringing out that we forget about the bringing in. We get so caught up in the fact that I'm to be separate from that we forget we're to be separated unto. Those priests had a call upon them in the Old Testament, and they were holiness unto the Lord. They were separated so that they might be dedicated unto the Lord Himself. And so we see that closeness. He said, I will receive you. And will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. There's a closeness that's there. And by the way, that's the way God intended it. The distance that often occurs between a believer and the Lord is not his fault. He doesn't love you at a distance. He wants to be close. He wants to be close. And so we see the closeness here. Now that closeness can only come when we separate ourselves From those things that dishonor and displease the Lord. Now let's get to this question. That's the interest of my heart right now, this question. What communion What communion hath light with darkness? What communion hath light with darkness? Now there's three key words, and I want to define them before I give you the message. Number one The first key word is right there, communion. What communion? So what does it mean to have communion? Does it mean when I come to the table and take the bread and the juice? Is that communion? Well, we call that communion. Because the scripture actually calls it communion. But the word communion means to participate with , means to fellowship, to associate, to share in together. It's something that you join in while you're doing. And by the way, there's only three times that word communion is used in the Bible. This particular instance here and the two others. have to do with having fellowship with the Lord. Being able to share and participate and and take part in. Listen, I'm glad that the blood of Jesus Christ makes it possible for for a fallen sinner like me to be able to associate with a holy God like him. That is the that's what Christ does. That's what salvation does You say, Preacher, I I feel unworthy. Well, you ought to because you are. The reality is it's Jesus that takes the old sinner and the Holy Father and brings them together so that we can have fellowship one with another. I've got no right to pray except for Jesus. I've got no right to walk with God except for Jesus I've got no reason to get close to God except for the Lord Jesus. But I'm glad I can draw near by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ and get close. simply because I have a a part, a fellowship, an association with the Lord through the person of Jesus Christ. Now here's what he says. What communion hath light with darkness? Can the two fellowship together? Can the two join hands together? Can the two somehow or another come to a truce and just sort of uh you know make amends and get along and go down the road? What he's saying is that we're talking about two opposites. Two opposites. There's no communion between light and darkness. There's no communion between the Lord and the devil. No communion. There's no common ground. There's nothing that brings the two together. You know, we one of the things that's been on my mind since Mrs. Poe went to heaven is that she was from North Carolina and when we m always got to talk, it was we talked about church and North Carolina. And use in that order. And uh I've told my wife there's something about people from North Carolina. They just know another person who's from North Carolina. There's a there's a common there's something common there. I I don't I don't know how to tell you. Maybe it's the same way with every state. I don't know that because I'm o from only one state, but I do know this. There's something that brings them together. Well, there's even something greater in that between the believer and the Lord Jesus, because we're brought together through the blood of Christ Himself. But now listen, darkness has no communion with light. You you you can't blend the two. Now I know we try to do that, and we live in a day of blending. I see these ads every once in a while, churches looking for pastors, and they say we have blended services. They ought to write over it, we compromise in our church. Because that's just what they're doing, these blended services. You can't blend light and darkness. And and so here we see the the word communion. Now look at the word light. The word light in the Bible represents God. God is light. It represents truth because the truth, walking in the light, is representative of walking in obedience to truth. It represents what's right. It represents what's right. Look at a few verses with me. Would you take your Bible and turn back to John's Gospel? John chapter number 8. And verse number twelve, John chapter eight and verse number twelve And notice the Bible says this, then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. Isn't that good? I'm glad he is the light of the world. By the way, there'd be no light in this world had he not come and be the light of the world. I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. You see the two are incompatible? You follow the Lord, guess what? You're not walking in darkness. If you follow the Lord, you're not walking in disobedience. You're not walking in evil. You're not walking in darkness. You're walking in the light. Now notice another text with me, would you please? Would you go over to 2 Corinthians chapter 4? A little closer to where we are, 2 Corinthians chapter 4. And verse number six, and the Bible says very clearly here, for God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness. Hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ In other words, the gospel, the saving grace of God, has dispelled the darkness that we once lived in He shined that light and now we're no longer in the dark. We're no longer living in the dark. He's brought us out of darkness and brought us into the light. One more place as far as this uh thing of light goes. I want you to go over to 1 John, please. 1 John, or some call it little John, but 1 John chapter number 1. First John chapter number one, verse seven says, but If we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us from all sin That's if we walk in the light. So that again, remember that word light represents truth and represents the Lord Jesus and represents what's right. Then there's that next word. What communion hath light with darkness? I want you to look at that word darkness. The word darkness means spiritual blindness. It also represents ungodliness and evil. It even represents the devil. Let me give you some verses and then I want us to look up a few. In Matthew chapter 4, verse 16, the Bible says, the people who sat in darkness saw a great light. It's talking about the birth of the Lord Jesus, the coming of Christ to this world. That darkness that men sit in is the darkness of their spiritual blindness their spiritual death, their sin and wickedness that separates us separates us from God. In Luke 22, verse 53, remember when Jesus talked about His departure, he said, This is the hour of the power of darkness. The power of darkness. The devil. The devil is that power of darkness. He he he is that one who who who is emanating, i if you will, and representing this thing of darkness. Romans 13, 12, the Bible tells us to put off the works of darkness. There are works that are associated with darkness. But now I want you to see this one. Look at it with your own eyes. Ephesians chapter number five. Would you go with me there, please? Ephesians chapter number five and verse number eight. Ephesians chapter number five and verse number eight. I'm trying to lay a foundation for the message that I want to bring. But in Ephesians chapter 5 and verse number 8, the Bible says this, for ye were sometimes darkness. You realize that? Ye were sometimes darkness. In our lost estate, we were darkness, but watch what he goes on to say. But now, aren't you thankful for that? Are ye light in the Lord? Hear this admonition, walk as children of the light. We're not living in darkness no more. We're not living in the darkness that we once were engulfed in. Verse, well, go down. Verse 11. Have no fellowship. With the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. Have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of of darkness, but rather reprove them. Oh my, there's other verses I'm not taking the time. Colossians one thirteen tells us we've been translated out of the kingdom of darkness Into the kingdom of his dear son. We've been saved out of darkness. We've been brought out of darkness. Now fancy getting rescued from drowning only to jump back in the water. But that's what we do when we dabble with darkness. God's rescued us out of that. He's brought us out of the darkness into his marvelous light. I want to give you three things. Number one, I want you to note that there is a distinction made The Bible makes it clear. Light is not darkness, and darkness is not light. God made a distinction. In other words, he divided them. By the way, God's the first one who ever did that. People say, well, the church has got all of these rules. And I know Sometimes we can go to seed on that sort of thing. But let me say this. God is the one who made distinctions. In Genesis chapter 1, verse 4, who divided the light from the darkness? God did. It was God who made a distinction. God said light is light and darkness is darkness, and the two are opposite from the other. Now I want you to know something that good is good and evil is evil. And I don't care what spin we put on it or what kind of definitions We try to come up with there's no erasing the distinctions made by the Lord. God is a God of distinction. When God made man, he just did not make him some conglomerate of cells and say, now this is mankind. He said, here 's a man, here's a woman. And he made a distinction. He made a clear distinction between the two. Now we live in a day where, by the way, distinctions are despised. In our culture. You heard this term toxic masculinity? You know what that is? That's the devil's attack on what God intended for man to be, a man. That's all it is. I I can't understand e even let's let's just be real practical tonight. I don't know why a man wants pretty hair. Lord help you. God made you a man. Some of these young fellows, I mean they uh these uh what do they call them? The mullets coming back? My dad, uh I'll tell you, he he had some old mountain wisdom. He he said son, I used to get on to him or not get on to him, I say, Dad, let me buy you a new tie. I don't need a new tie. Well they had them big old wide ties that they wore in the Depression, you know. And but you know what? Those crazy things come back around. I remember when they come come in and I had one like that and I went to dinner at the house and and and he and he saw that thing and he said, You're catching up with me boy, you're catching up with me. But but you know, the problem today is you know what we're doing? We're trying to erase the distinction. Young men, don't be afraid of being a man. That's what God made you. Look like a man, talk like look, don't don't try to uh get in touch with your effeminate side. That ha that you got separated from that when you got born. You be a man. Be what God made you to be. God made men men. That's a distinction defined in the Word of God. God made ladies a lady. God made you a woman. You're not like a man. Why I don't understand why a woman wants to be like a man. God didn't make her like that God didn't make you with manlike qualities. He made you quite differently, and I bless the wonderful name of the Lord that he did. What a hor what a tragedy it'd be to be married, Andy, to somebody just like you and me. Great, eh? Wouldn't that be awful? Thank you, Lord. But the reality is the devil wants to erase the distinction. Hear me? That's what the devil wants to do. He wants to remove the distinctions that God has established from the beginning so that man will spiral into moral chaos and into a collapse spiritually because there's no longer a distinction. But God's made them. Now I want you to remember that goes that goes all the way through Every part of life. God makes distinctions. Do you know there's a distinction made between lost and saved? There's a distinction. There's no half saved or half lost. There's no partly in and partly out. You're either lost or saved. You're not almost saved or almost lost. You're one or the other. God makes a distinction between the two. And when God recognizes humanity, by the way. When God looks over the sea of humanity, he doesn't look at the Baptists and the Presbyterians and the Methodists and this crowd. He sees those that are in his Son and those that are out of his Son. You're either in Christ or you're out of Christ. You're either born again or you're lost. There are no distinctions except those made by the Lord. And know that. Know that God sees, but God makes the distinction You can't call everyone brother or sister. You just can't Because if you've never been saved, you can't say you're my brother in the Lord, because if if a person's not saved, they're not your brother. You've got different fathers. Doesn't the Bible make it clear there's two families? He said uh Jesus even said to a group of religious people one day, You are of your father the devil. And you remember what they said? Well, we'd be Abraham's seed. Well, they might have been Abraham's seed, but they were not God's seed. They were not his children. They had ne they needed to be born again. I uh how I love John III. And and and when that great religious leader came to Jesus by night, Jesus didn't flatter him about his position. He didn't fool around with the conversation. He said, you must be born again. And that's the reality. If you're lost, my friend, listen, join the church ain't going to help you Getting baptized is not going to help you. Lighting candles and praying prayers and rubbing deeds is not going to help you. You know what will help you? Jesus will. He died for your sin. He was buried. He rose again the third day. He'll save whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord. That's what you need. You need the Lord Jesus. Away with religion. I was talking to a man up north one time, he said, I hate religion. I said, I do too. And he went, Oh. Does your church know that? I said, I hope they do. Because religion damns people. Jesus saves them. And my friend, if you're not saved, that's what you need. But I'm saying there's a distinction made. God makes a distinction. Now listen, God makes a distinction between what's right and what's wrong. God makes a very clear distinction. The confusion of our society is not because It's not clear what's right or wrong. You hear me? The confusion of our society is not because it's not clear. People say, Well, I just I have trouble understanding uh that that archaic language. No, I think it's just a little bit too plain to suit the fancy of some. It's just too convicting. Oh, children won't understand thou shalt not. Don't tell me that. I wasn't the smartest kid that my parents gave birth to, but I will tell you this, when she said don't, I knew what that meant. And I I understood and I still understand, believe it or not, thou shalt not. That's very clear. Why? God's making distinctions. Don't get caught up in the religious fog of this hour. God don't produce any religious fog. The Bible clears the air like a good stiff breeze. We took my mother to a little restaurant and we were sitting on the Bay of Thundy, maybe not even a quarter mile from the head of it, and one of those dark summer fogs rolled in, scared her to death. I think she thought the Lord was coming or something. Because we're sitting in this uh sunroom area eating and it's bright and beautiful and I could see it just creeping up over the trees and I knew what was coming. It'd come all the time if the wind turned a certain way and here come that fog. And then just, I don't know, Elizabeth, it might have been two minutes or less. It was like as dark nearly as it is outside. And the fog was so thick, and and mom said, what in the world's happening? Is there fire? What, you know, she couldn't figure it out. It's just the fog. It'll blow away. And we sat there a while, and I knew better than try to get in a car and drive. I mean, you can't see literally in front of you. And then finally I seen a tree. That was right there at a little old plant next to the restaurant where we were eating. I see it kind of give a little shake and I said, the wind's fixing a start. And it wasn't long, that wind blew all that fog away And that bright, beautiful sun came back out and everything was clear as it had been before. And I'm telling you, you carry in your hands the wind of God. This will blow the fog of confusion away. If you're confused tonight about what it means to be male or female, read your Bible. If you're confused about what it means to be lost or saved, read your Bible. If you're confused about what it means, uh what's sin and what's not sin, read the Word of God. It blows the fog away and thank God for it. Do you know what a mass of chaos we'd live in if that if we didn't have this? Do you know what kind of mess we'd be in if we didn't have a compass to guide us and the truth of God's word to shine it and shine a light? Oh, thank the Lord for his precious word. God makes a distinction. Number two, quickly, there is design intended. Now God doesn't do anything without purpose. And so when God made a distinction, and God makes a distinction between light and darkness, between good and evil, he does it on purpose. He does it with the design intended. In Colossians 1. 13, the Bible says, who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. Now God's brought you out of the dark that you might be a light shining back into the dark that he just delivered you from. That's his design. Now let me ask you something. How many of you turn on a flashlight and put your hand over the end of it? I don't know if I have it on me. My keys are somewhere. This is the story of every Lord's day. My keys are somewhere Thanks to Mrs. Cox. I'll find them when I get my phone. And my phone is somewhere too, amen. But Brother Lee gave me a little light. It's only about that big. I don't know where he gets them, but he gave me. I've got several he's given me And it's a little flashlight about that big. It's the brightest thing I've ever seen. Now I'm not a fan of darkness, I'll just be honest with you. So you scared of it? No. I just don't care for what I can't see. And I've come through this church a few times and I don't know where the pews are and I don't have all the paths memorized, and I click my little light on, but that light's so little that if I hold it in my big old hand, sometimes I'll cover it up. And it's like not having no light at all. You say, what are you saying? Here's what I'm saying. You are the light of the world. If you're saved. He's brought you out of darkness. He's put the light of truth, the light of the gospel, the light of the person of Jesus Christ. It's shining in you And when you go over here and dabble in darkness, you know what you're doing? You're putting the bushel basket over your light. You're hiding the light of the glorious gospel. When somebody looks at you and has to ask the question, is that a Christian? You're playing in the shadows. When they have to look at you and I and say, now is that person saved? I'll tell you something, it's a joy in this sense to be able to stand over someone who's gone to heaven and say without a shadow of a doubt, I know they knew the Lord. They lived for the Lord. They let their light shine for the Lord. And to say, hey, thank God, we got to hope there's going to be a reunion day coming. I'm gonna tell you something. There's a lot of people live that it's just quite hard to tell It's hard to tell. It's hard to tell. Do they love the Lord or are they lost in their sin? And my friend, that's not of God, because God has designed that you and I as Christians be light, that we shine for the Lord. That our lives be such that it says, He loves the Lord Jesus. He follows the Lord Jesus. It's quite clear that life is a different life. Now that brings me to this, and this really is the message, and don't panic. I know it's 6. 59 if I can see proper But I'm gonna be very quick in what I've got to say. There are decisions we have to make. If there is a distinction made and there is a design intended, then there are some decisions we have to make. What are you saying? We have got to decide, are we going to walk in the light or are we going to walk in the dark? 1 John chapter 1 says, if we walk in the light, we have fellowship with the Lord. But if we walk in the darkness, if we say that we have no sin, what are we doing? We're deceiving ourselves? Look, I ain't gonna butcher that. Let's go over and read it. 1 John chapter number 1. Let's see what the Bible says. 1 John chapter number 1. Yes, verse number six. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, what does the Bible say we do? We lie and do not the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, cleanseth us from all sin. Now we've got decisions to make. God's brought me out of the darkness into the light. God has saved me out of a world of sin and out of the power of Satan, and He's made me one of His children. Now here's the decision I've got to make. Am I going to walk in the light or am I going to go back there and dabble in the darkness? My friend, listen. You cannot put a good spin on Halloween and make it light, any shape, form, or fashion. I I don't need to take the time to educate you. Many of you know, but uh I don't need to take the time to expound the uh the background, the origins. All I've got to do is look around and look at the emphasis. And the emphasis tells me that's a work of darkness. Oh, I know people are immediately going to rise up and say, now, preacher. I don't do it for anything but fun. I'll tell you, there's a whole lot of things you can do for fun that does not glorify the devil. There's a whole lot of things that you can take part in. There's a whole lot of other things that you can and you say, well, preacher, you you're just being cane tankerous. No I'm not being cantankerous. I'm warning you because in thirty years of pastoring, I'm seeing God's people start gravitating towards the darkness of the hour, and the darker it gets, the further we're getting from the light Oh, we're not full on in it. We're not out there wallowing in the darkness like the rest of the world, but we sure are keeping pace with it as far as our distance is concerned. And we're wallowing in the dark. I'm telling you, friend, be careful about dabbling in the darkness. If I had it to do again to raise uh if I had to raise my children over again, I'd do just what I did You say, what'd you do? We didn't celebrate Halloween. We didn't do we didn't acknowledge it or recognize it. I told my kids from as soon as they were big enough to understand this is a devil's holiday. It has nothing to do with Christians, and if you're saved, don't fool with it. Uh and you say, well, but they'll miss out on the candy. Go buy look, we live in a country where you can go to Walmart and buy candy every day of the of the year. Praise the Lord Now you may not be able to get the great old value packs, but but uh wait till it's over and profit off of the devil's doings. Amen. Scarf it up. I'm saying, my friend, let's not make lame excuses or light expressions about things that are pertaining to darkness. God 's people need to realize we're the light of the world. You and I are to shine our light for the Lord Jesus. What fellowship what communion hath light with darkness? To me, just bear with me, but but for me, when I when I see churches providing a substitute for a devil's day Grieves my heart. It grieves my heart. It grieves my heart. I mean I got good brothers. They disagree with me. I'll get emails usually. I've never preached this on this subject that don't get emails or or anonymous mail or whatever. So anyway, have at it. But the reality is I've got brothers that I love and brothers I appreciate, but I don't know why in the wor I do know why. I think I know why They don't want to look so different. We don't want to be odd and stand out. Can I ask you a question? Is that not what we're called to be? We're called to follow Christ. We're called to be different. Now look, we don't go out here and just be weird for the sake of being weird. Some of you don't even have to try. But the reality is that God has called you to be different. You're a Christian. You follow Jesus Christ. Some of you are old enough, when somebody said I'm a Christian, you expected something out of them. You expected their life to be different, their word to be their bond, their integrity to be intact, their work to be different. You expected everything about them to be unique because they followed Jesus. But we've let this culture so invade our Christianity that the name Christian don't hardly bear no meaning in this world anymore. Somebody says, I'm a Christian, you say, well, I I'm going to treat you like everybody else because I don't know if you are or not. And it often depends on what kind of Christian you are. Are you one that believes the Bible? Even some of them you can't trust, turn around backwards on. You better keep your eye on. You say, what are you saying? I'm saying that we need to be light. What communion hath light with darkness? What why why do we have to accommodate to the you know, there was a time when the the light was the pressure on the dark. Now the dark's pressure on the light. Brother said to me, he said, We don't uh we don't do week meetings anymore. I said, Why? He said, People won't come. I said, shame on them. Does that mean we're just going to quit quit doing everything that's right because people won't do it? Somewhere you gotta decide it's for me and my house. We're gonna do right because it's just right. We're going to do the right thing and listen, I'm just saying that beloved, if it's right to feet to be different or to be separate from the darkness It doesn't matter what year it is or what the culture says or how the how much pressure is is put on you and and and how much uh you know you feel that. You uh man I can remember when our kids were little The the people would would you know they would say, oh, I mean they would borderline say it was abuse not to let them be involved. And boy, I'll tell you, as a young father, that bothered me. I didn't want to hurt my kids. I didn't know hardly what I was doing. I I do wish I could be at this point and then go back. You know. There'd be some things I'd do different, some. But this is not one of them. This is not one of 'em. I don't regret it all. I don't regret it all. Saying, Hey, God's made a distinction. We live in a and by the way, the closer we get to the coming of the Lord, the darker this old world's gonna get, and the more important it is for you and I to stand. I sing about Dr. Dixon in heaven, and I'll tell you what he was. He was one of them old-time anchor preachers. They dropped their anchor and they held things back. Oh, I know people hated them and called them names and laughed at them and thought they were foolish, but I'll tell you what, they saved us from spiraling in a direction of worldliness and carnality that has robbed the current church of its power. We don't have power with God because we're so polluted with the world. Our lights can't shine because our lamps are not trimmed. Oh dear friend, what communion hath light with darkness? The church needs to stop bowing to the pressure of the world and get busy pointing people to Jesus Christ. People need the Lord. They don't need an alternative or a substitute. I don't know about you, but I go to the doctor and he says you need to substitute. I hate to hear those words. That means take everything that tastes good, throw it in the garbage, and just start eating cardboard for the rest of your life. Or at least that's how I take it, anyway. Oh you did you know you could sub I know I could substitute and then just suck the rest the joy out of my life, you know. And uh but in all honesty, there's no substitute for the Lord Jesus. Church, be careful. I I fear that the pressure of the world is saying, entertain them Just to engage them. You know all you're doing, you're entertaining sinners on their way to hell. You know what engages lost men? The gospel. What? Communion. Half light with darkness. Can there be a blending? No. Can there be somehow a compact or an accord or an agreement that's made so that the two can walk together? The average Christian and the average church today says, oh yes, you can hold hands with the devil and hold hands with the Lord and skip merrily along. But I've got news for you. There's coming a day where that will be severed. There's coming a day when God will make the final distinction. And the children of light will go to be with the Lord. And they'll be a group cast into that darkness, that outer darkness. I'm just saying right here on the verge of the celebration around the world for a very wicked and evil holiday. Be light. Don't dabble in the darkness. There's a dear man right now preaching tonight. He's preaching, oddly enough, I was telling Brother Poe about this, he's preaching in Lansing, Michigan, Michigan, Lansing, North Carolina At Emmanuel Baptist Church, Jeff Brown. Brother Jeff Brown got saved the week my wife and I got married. We had a tent meeting out in Harrisonville, North Carolina. My pastor was preaching. I was praying with some men and they said, pray, there's a young man out here who tried to kill himself. We've got him out of the truck and brought him down. We're talking to him. I got to go down just a few months ago and see Brother Jeff. He preached a meeting down at Dundalk at Calvary Baptist Church. I said, brother, you don't know me. We we haven't seen each other since. I said, but I was with praying with that group and when you got saved that night. Man , he was so sweet. He was just rejoicing. But you know, I said that to tell you this. Jeff dabbled in darkness. He got hooked on a on a game, Dungeons and Dragons. I know, I know. Listen, don't don't let me spare you some paper and some pain. Don't send me it. I know. It's just a game. Well, it might have been just a game for some, but it wasn't for him. And he immersed himself in it. Till literally, I believe the devil just took charge of that boy. But God, listen, he had a praying mama and daddy. And they prayed for Jeff to be saved. He came to that meeting. He got under such conviction he tore out. He had a big hunting knife in his truck and he had locked the door and tried to take his life. Brother Ralph, my pastor, he came out of the pulpit and he went back there. They knocked the window out of his truck and got the door open, and Brother Ralph hit him right fair in the side of the head and knocked him out cold. So that he wouldn't hurt himself and then drug him out and they brought him down to the altar. He said, Well, I wouldn't do that. Well, you weren't there in that situation. This is desperate times. The boy was trying to end his life and the devil's trying to get him in hell, that's what he was doing. And I remember when he come too, I can still see that wild look in his eyes. And I can hear those men saying, son, you probably just got a short period of time. You better get saved or your life's over. And old Jeff asked God to save him. Well, that was over thirty years, wasn't it? How long we've been married, honey? Look, some of you turkeys, you if I asked you, you wouldn't know either, so just hush. Thirty-two? Summers in there? Fair enough And long time hadn't it been? Sure as. But you know what? People said, oh, it was just no. God saved him. And man, just he's been serving the Lord. He's back there in the country. I mean that's back in the country. Pastoring that little church and loving those people. He's been there almost twenty twenty years, I guess, now. And serving the Lord among those dear people. I'm telling you, my friend, light, and here he said this to me one time. He said, you know something? He said, I don't like Halloween. He said, I know what it glorifies, and it brings up all that that God brought me out of. Now you don't have to go to that depth to know that the devil is real, darkness is real. And if you're saved by the grace of God, you've got no business dabbling in the darkness. Let's stop trying to put bows and pigtails On the devil and the demons of hell. Let dark be dark. And God says, be simple about it. Things are evil. Be simple. But my friend, let light be light. I'm just saying, you you you ought to just get it in your mind, you're gonna go all out for Jesus. Is a term that used to be used. Out and out for Christ. I don't hear that term much no more. That means you just sold out, lock, stock, and barrel. God, I'm yours. The top of my head to the bottom of my feet. It's all yours. I'm all yours. I'm selling out. Hey, some people need to sell out. You know what we're doing when we're dabbling in darkness? We're trying to do deals with the devil. Folks, you'll always lose. You'll always lose. Oh, God help us. May we see the seriousness of the hour we're living in. We need some men and women who'll sell out for God. And just say, Lord, you have all there is of me. Lord, I want you to have all of me. I want all of me to be yours. I don't want to have any corners of darkness, no hidden areas of darkness. I want the light to shine unhindered, unrestricted. Father help us please now. As we just get still and quiet