I'm glad he cares for you. He cares for me. Oh, what a wonderful Savior. What a wonderful Savior. Well, I want you to take your Bible, please, and go with me to Ephesians chapter number four. Ephesians chapter number four. And I want you to look with me at just two verses tonight I pray our Sunday evening meetings are both profitable and practical. And I want to be practical, perhaps. uh in a very simple manner about a subject that I believe is important that We know what the Bible has to say about it. So in Ephesians chapter 4, if you found your place, please stand with me if you would, please. Ephesians chapter 4, let me read the last two verses, 31 and 2. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. And be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Father, I pray for your help just now. Would you use your word to help us grow? Make us what we ought to be. And Lord, we'll thank you and praise you now. I appreciate you, Lord, just meeting needs here a few moments ago. How I thank you for a place to bow, a God upon whom I can call. I thank you, Lord. You're the great burden bearer. We're grateful this evening that, Lord, as a church family, we can have these sweet times just to kneel and call on your precious name. Lord, we pray you'll continue to do what's needed for each heart, and we'll praise you for it. And Lord, we'll thank you and give you all the glory because we all. Starting with this preacher and every person present, we all need you. And may your will be done, we ask, in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen, you be seated. I want to give you some things tonight on the subject of dealing with conflict. I read something the other day that caught my attention. It said that over half of the family fights take place during Christmas. Over half. And you know, a lot of times when we think about all of the joy and celebration, we forget it's not that way everywhere. Or with everyone. Sometimes there's tension and trouble and turmoil And I don't know about you, but I'm glad that my Bible addresses practical things of life. I've heard these people who deny the authority of the Word of God say, the Bible's irrelevant. And I feel like saying, and you're ignorant. But in a much nicer way of saying it, I would say that you just haven't read it. That's why you believe it's irrelevant. My Bible is very relevant. In fact, it's such a practical book, it tells me how to live my life from day to day. The Bible has the answer to our problems. If we would just get a hold of that, or rather let it get a hold of us, it would transform our lives. The Bible does have the answers to life's problems. So I want to give you some Bible principles. To deal with conflict. How do I deal with conflict? I wish I could stand up here and tell you how to never have conflict. But I'd have to lie, because I don't know how to tell you how, to not have conflict, because conflict's a part of life. But I do know what the Bible says here. Let me point out just several things. And if you're making notes, they're four in number. Number one, and I think it's quite clear here, it it very clearly says this deal with your sin. When conflict comes, we're often quick to say , his fault, it's her fault. I mean, I could just I could get along if it wasn't for and we point the finger. By the way, that's been happening since the Garden of Eden. When God made his the sin of Adam and Eve confronted them over their sin , Adam quickly said, The woman Notice what he said, thou gavest me. You hadn't to give her to me. Huh? We do it, don't we? And then she said, the serpent. He did it. Now the serpent didn't have nowhere to go. But understand that dealing with conflict starts with you, starts with me. Deal with their own sin. Do you know there's six things here that he tells you and I to put away? Six of them. Look at them, please. First one: bitterness. Bitterness. A lot of times conflict is the result of a bitter person. They're bitter, maybe a grudge. The word, do you know the word, the word bitter literally means an inner poison? It's an inner poison. And so the Bible says you've got to put it away. You've got to put that grudge away. How quick we are to remember wrong. I mean, they they tell me that an elephant has an excellent memory. And that they can remember when their wee little uh what do you call a baby elephant? Besides the baby elephant, a calf. He's a calf. When he's a small calf, if he's been harmed by someone, he'll remember. He'll remember that person often. He can remember that individual. And there's documented uh facts where an elephant that maybe 10 or 20 or even 30 years down the road has contact with that person that hurt them when they were a calf will often try to kill them. Because all of that comes back. And I'm here to tell you that elephants aren't the only thing with excellent memories when it comes to being done wrong. Sometimes God's little children have the same mentality and we remember and we hold grudges and we get bitter and we cause conflict. You know, oftentimes The conflict comes not because of the person you're holding a grudge against, but because of the bitterness that's poured out on everybody else around you. So deal with your own sin, deal with the bitterness. Number two, deal with the wrath. Look what it says: put away wrath. Wrath is a passionate, boiling anger. Someone said it's like a volcano. It's volcanic in nature. It blows. It blows. So we've we've got to deal with our with our wrath. And by the way, oftentimes it it it's something little that lights the fuse and causes the spark. So we're s we're told here very clearly, we've got to deal with it. We've got to deal with it. You know, when there's conflict, we ought to start with me. When there's conflict, we ought to say, now, Lord, what's my problem? And say, now, Lord, what sin is in my life needs to be put away? Bitterness, wrath. Look at this next one: anger. Anger. You say, how's anger different than wrath? Well, anger is more of a disposition. It's the agitated temper. You ever notice that we live in an increasingly angry world? People are angry. They're just mad about everything. Several years ago, Sarah worked in a a burger place, and uh AW was the name of it. And she said, you wouldn't believe the people who would get a wrong order and throw food in your face? Spit through the window. Wanna fight? Hey, over a hamburger? That's probably gonna give you a heart attack if you don't stop eating a stupid thing And you get mad about it. You know what and can I say this? Rarely is it about the hamburger. It's an agitated disposition. It's a person that's just angry. Let me ask you something. Every once in a while we ought to ask the Holy Spirit to show us what we are so mad about. I believe if you ask him that with an honest heart, he'll tell you. And what Paul said, he said, put that thing away. Deal with that sin. Clamor. Clamor is a long, loud, continuous noise. A long, loud, continuous noise. D does anyone know what a guinea is? It's a bird, a fowl? And when I think of clamor, I think of that Bird. Because those of you that know know exactly what I'm talking about. Long, loud, continuous noise. They're better than watchdogs. We have family that had them and and they would they would those crazy things would fly up on their trailer and they would set across the peak, the ridge line of the trailer, and when you pulled up on the property, all of them would start chattering at once And you talk about an alarm going off. Well, you know, the Bible says we're to put away clamor. You say, what does that have to do with me? Can I just say this, those long, loud, continuous noises? In this way Everybody doesn't need to hear my opinion. I think a lot of conflict begins because we just want somebody to hear how we feel about it. Well, they may not need to know how you feel about it. Because it may be you feel wrongly. Put away. Put away clamor. Number five, he says, we're to put away evil speaking. Evil speaking is slanderous or injurious speech. Oh, how easy it is sometimes to talk about people rather than it is real problems. Or to deal with personalities instead of principles And when we begin to do that, you know what we're doing? We're just setting the table for conflict. He says, put away evil speaking. By the way, I found that one of the best ways to put away evil speaking is an angry countenance. There may be the need at some point to to to flash an angry look to someone and say, hey, we don't do that around here. Maybe need to be done here in the house of God. It may need to be done around the dinner table with the family. Brother Bell, I he he shares this publicly and I I don't think you'd mind me sharing it, but uh his wife and girls were all upset about something and he said they got to evil speaking. And Brother Bell said he took it about as long as he could. They were trying to eat a meal, and he slammed his hand on the table and said, That's enough of that. We don't do that stuff around here. Sometimes that needs to just be done. Put it away, the Bible says. Put away evil speaking. Notice the sixth one here. He says we need to put away malice. Malice is an ill-will that's often born of jealousy. It's a hatred , a hatred that lingers and lurks in the deep recesses of the heart. Now I'm saying all of this to say if I'm going to deal with conflict, I gotta deal with my own sin. I gotta confront the reality that there may be bitterness or wrath or anger or clamor. or evil speaking or malice that's lurking in my heart. And you say, Preacher, how do I put it away? I'm glad first John 1 9 is in my Bible. Because it says if we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness My friend, put it away under the blood, put it away under confession, put it away in repentance, and put it away and dig it up no more. Thank God for the cleansing blood of the Lamb. So deal with your own sin. I can still hear my next door neighbor. She's a wee little lady, Georgie Presley was her name. Georgie Presley, little short lady, farm garden, beautiful garden, way up into her late 80s, maybe early nineties. And uh she she had the prettiest garden and sometimes my brother especially and others would kind of pick on her a little bit. She'd be out there working, it's what she did every day. I think it kept her alive, kept her healthy. And she'd be out there pulling weeds and stuff, and every once in a while my my orner little brother, he would say, uh, you missed a weed. There's one over here. You need to get this one over here. And she would turn with that sly little grin and she'd say, Go pull the weeds out of your own garden boy. I'm gonna tell you something. A lot of times we have conflict because we're trying to pull somebody else's weeds. Let 'em be I don't know about you, but I've got enough weeds in my own garden to pull. I don't have time to go around pulling yours. I've got enough weeds that come up that have to be dealt with on a continual, regular basis. So let's deal with our own sin. If we're going to deal with conflict, we must deal with our own sin. But number two, would you note this? We need to deliberately be kind. Look what the Bible says, and be ye kind. That's a command. God's not making a suggestion here. He's not giving you something that he's just insinuating. He's literally saying, you be kind. He's making a command. Why does he command that you and I be kind? I'll tell you why, because it's unnatural. And it's unlike our old nature to be kind. We have a tendency to be the opposite, don't we? The word kind here means to be pleasant, benevolent, or gracious. It's an opposition or the opposite of being harsh or hard or bitter. Let me say this: that you'll never be kind on accident. You must be kind on purpose. By the way, it's a regularly mentioned attribute of God Himself. God is kind. Do you understand that the Bible teaches in Colossians chapter 3 and verse number 10 that it is the mark of the new man? It's a mark of the new birth. In Proverbs 31:26, it's a law that governs our speech. In 1 Corinthians 13:4, we're told that love is kind. And so if I'm going to deal with conflict, I need to deliberately be kind. Make it a purposeful thing in my life that I'm going to be kind. I know people say this and they say and people say a lot of things that aren't true, but they say, but I'm just not by nature kind. Well, you've got a new nature. You're a Christian. Christ lives in you. And if Jesus lives in you, have you ever got a hold of this? The thought that Jesus lives in you, that He actually lives there, He dwells there. And because he's in you, you're no longer what you were before he moved in. He's made you a new creature. And made you a new creation. And so we must be deliberately. Do you know kindness goes a long way at disarming conflict? Now, folks, I'm not preaching psychology or man-made mumbo jumbo. I'm telling you what the Bible says. The Bible says we're to be kind, and be ye kind. And so we deliberately, you know, if you perhaps have a tension-filled situation, kindness can go a long way. To taking the fuse out of the bomb. Kindness. May the Lord help us with that. We live in an unkind age. People aren't kind. Some of you are old enough to remember when kindness was sort of the general mark of people People were just generally kind. I mean there was an ordinary one or two that wasn't, but for the most part our society and culture was kind. But remember something, we've kicked God out, we've re we've neglected our Bibles Over half of America don't even attend church anywhere anymore and have abandoned the place of truth. A and and now we're becoming a people that were desperately harsh and bitter and hard in our dealings one with another. But God says you're you're mine. You're one of mine. You're my child. I want you to be kind. So deliberately use kindness. Number three, I want you to notice what else the Bible says, and be ye kind one to another. Watch this now, tender-hearted. If you're making notes, number three is display tenderness. The word tenderness there or tenderhearted means to be compassionate and full of pity. Notice where we're to display it. It says we're to be tender. Watch this. It doesn't say tender-headed. Tender-hearted. Tender-hearted. It's where it starts. I love the design of this tenderness it's seen in Psalm 103. And you know what the Bible says? Like as a father pitieth his children, so doth the Lord pity them that fear him. You know what the next verse says? For he remembereth our frame, that we're but dust. You know what pity says? Pity says, I know what you're made out of. Pity says, I know what you're walking through. Pity says, I I I understand that behind what you are, or rather what you do, or maybe what you say is actually what you are. God says, I have pity on you because you're nothing but the dust of the earth. He remembers my frame. I was thinking about David. And David did some wrong things. David was, David committed adultery. David was responsible for the death of Uriah. David did some things that were wrong. But there was a man in David's life that did not get mercy. He didn't understand mercy. You know what his name was? Ahithophel. Ahithophel just couldn't see God showing a man like David mercy. Ahithophel had strong passion. By the way, he had a very powerful position. He was the king's counselor. He was David's counselor. And you know what the Bible says? It says that in his day Ahithophel spoke as the oracles of God. His advice was like God talking from heaven. And Absalom comes to the throne, and Ahithophel burns with glee and says, Now we'll get him. And Absalom says, What shall we do? What's your advice, Ahithophel? And Ahithophel says, pursue him and kill him immediately. Let's make a short end of this thing. But there was another man who happened to be David's friend. Now Ahithophel had appeared to be his friend because he was in his cabinet for a long time. By the way, something you might want to remember, this was personal with him. This was personal with him. You know why? Bathsheba was his granddaughter. And Ahithophel stood back and watched what David did, and watched the effects of that, and the death of her husband, and he said, We've got to listen. David don't deserve mercy. By the way, can I say something? Nobody deserves mercy. If he deserved mercy, it wouldn't be mercy. And he said he's got to die. Hushai, the the other counselor, is is questioned and he says, You know David, he's a fighting man. And if we pursue him now, he'll be like a bear robbed of her whelps, a bear robbed of her cubs, and he'll be one bad dude to tangle with. You better let him be. And his counsel was followed. And when Ahithophel realized that David somehow, I don't think that I I I think maybe in the back of his mind he thought, you know what? God's gonna mess around and show David mercy. David's the kind of man that's going to get mercy from God. And Ahithophel could not stand that so badly that he went home, set his affairs in order, and took his own life. You know why? Because he did not understand mercy. Now I'm going to be honest with you, I don't understand mercy either. I don't understand why God would do what he did in David's life God would take David and bring him back to the kingdom, put him back on the throne. David would have consequences from his sin, but David would not be annihilated like many desired. David would not be destroyed. God showed David mercy David humbled himself, said, God forgive me and cleanse me, and that's exactly what God did. God showed him mercy. And can I say to you, one of the reasons I believe God showed David mercy is because he remembered his frame. I'm going to tell you something. If men were God, we'd all be in trouble. Because we don't understand mercy. You let somebody go crossways and we immediately, we immediately discount them , cut them off, disconnect them, say, they're done. There's no hope. There's no way they'll ever get right. Just this week I was contacted by someone and God the Holy Ghost pricked my heart. Almost 20 years ago now, I seen them turn their back on God and I said, uh personally my heart, I said, I don't even know if those people are saved. I'm not sure if that person's saved. And that person reached out to me and said, I want you to know something. I am a Christian. I'm trying to get right with God. He's brought stuff in my life I never dreamed would happen, and God's using it to turn me around. And I thought, what's it? God has shown that person mercy. I didn't think he ever would, and personally there were times I didn't think he should, but God showed him mercy. Then the Holy Spirit reminded me, hey boy, how many times I showed you mercy. How many times have I showed you forgiveness and cleansing? How many times have I had mercy on you when you messed up? Let me tell you something, friend. Mercy is needed by us all. And the person who thinks they need it least are the ones that need it most. God showed mercy. That's what tender-heartedness is. It's just showing mercy. Do you know something? We're all broken people. And tenderheartedness is trying to understand. It's a broken person trying to understand another broken person. Trying to figure out. You know where somebody's sharp with you, it maybe they're unkind or rude. Have you ever sought and thought it may have absolutely nothing to do with you? You ever put the brakes on and said, you know something? There may be something happening I don't know about. Had a man come visit our church and it's out in the back row, not here, but another place he was sitting on the back row. And that dear man had such a forlorn look on his face. He looked like he'd lost his best friend. And one of the men went back there to him and called him by name and said, Won't you smile? And that man's lips started to tr to just quiver. And he got up and he slammed the , he had a hymn book in his hand, he threw the hymn book down, he went out the back door, slammed the door. Got in his car and I'm getting ready to open the Bible and preach. I'm looking out the window and he pulls in front of a tractor and trailer and nearly gets killed. And I went to see him on Tuesday and I called him by name. I said, What's wrong? He said, I'd just come back from the doctor. Got word that we got cancer. I don't have long to live. So I I needed something from the the Bible. I needed he didn't know what words to say, but he knew he needed something. He said, I come there needing something He said, someone had the audacity to say to me, Why don't you smile? Now was he right in what he did? No. But I'm telling you, his frame is dust. His frame is dust. He's a broken man. And every once in a while we need to cool our jets and be the mature one and realize that, hey, look, we're all in the same boat. We're mighty broken people, but we've got a God that knows how to show mercy. In our situation and forgive us and cleanse us and help us and lead us through even in our brokenness. Display tenderness. Really try hard. Pray about it, would you, believer? Pray about understanding why people are broken like they are. Try to understand why they act like they do. Try to understand where they're where they're coming from. Maybe a place you're you're you're totally blind to. And it might help you to understand just exactly why they do what they do. And then the fourth and final thing is we need to do as God does. We need to do as God does. Look what it says. Forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Church, can I remind you that forgiveness is a choice? It's a choice. It's always a choice. You choose to let go of an offense. Here's a proverb the Lord gave me a long time ago. I've got it written in a lot of places, so I see it often. Proverb 20 and verse 3 says, It is an honor for a man to cease from strife, but every fool will be meddling. It's an honor. Do you know sometimes it's an honor just to let it go? You don't have to win. You don't have to be right. I could guarantee you that 90% of marital problems can be traced back to somebody will not just let it go. I gotta win. At what expense? Huh? At what cost How much damage you're going to do? John, you racing. And when you get out there and race, you've torn up a lot of stuff, haven't you? I'm I'm I'm being serious. I'm besides his zucchini picking business, he's tore up a lot of stuff. You know why? Because he wants to win. And he'll blow a motor to win. He'll tear something all two pieces. Just to win. Hey, is your argument worth it? Is it is it so important that you win that you'll destroy your home? Break that wife's heart, destroy her her spirit? Is it so important that you win and be right and come out? Sometimes, look, sometimes you just need to walk away and close your mouth and say, I've got to let this go. Let the offense go. It's a choice that we make. It's an honor. By the way, it's an honor God honors. Let me say that again. It's an honor that God honors. When you cease from strife, notice what he says. You know what a fool will do? He'll be meddling. He'll just keep poking the bear. He'll just keep stirring the pot. He'll just keep agitating and aggravating. My brother used to work for a plumber and He went to this place to work and there was a big mean dog there. And I I think it scared him. It scared him bad enough. The fella came out and he hooked him up on his chain. And after he was chained up, my brother said, you know what, I'm gonna aggravate him. He's aggravated me. And so he took his shovel, and as he every time he walked down that that fence, that chain-link fence that that dog was on the other side of, he would tick, tick, tick, tick, tick Tick, tick, tick, tick. And that that drove that dog wild. Man, he was foaming and he was just lurching and lurching. And and but he was chained up, said he can't get away. He ain't gonna hurt me. He had to make a lot of trips. It was a real bad job, he said. And he said when he came out of the house, he said he should have known something was wrong because the dog wasn't lurching anymore. He was just watching. He said he wasn't doing anything, he went and got whatever it was in the truck and he came back and uh he didn't have a shovel with him, but he had some little old metal piece. I I think it might have been uh one of those wrenches, uh pipe wrench And and he started down that fence, tick, tick, tick, tick, and he said that dog just kept walking, just normal, like that, and he realized he broke the chain. Now you talk about losing a pound of flesh in the mouth of a big old mean dog. He said that thing liked to kill him. And I remember him telling that story, my mother was sitting there and she said, Sir, if you're right She had no pity on him. He he had sturded him up. He asked for it. Oh, brother, sister, we asked for a lot of foolishness in our lives. When we could make a simple choice and forgive. How many times we grieve the Holy Ghost in the house of God because we won't let something go? Preacher, you don't know what he said to me. You don't know how how they acted towards me. You don't know, and I don't know. But here's what I do know. If you don't forgive, God puts a great premium on that choice. Got to make a choice. I want you to notice Christ in the text because it says that we are to be tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Do you realize that he's let go of all the offenses that you're guilty of because of Jesus? Just because of him. It's on his behalf. I'm forgiven. I'm not forgiven because I pray enough, and I'm not forgiven because I suffer enough, and I'm not forgiven because I pay And he says, listen, forgive like he forgave, all for his sake. We ought to let go for the sake of Christ. And then he speaks to the Christian. He says, as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Friend, I'm forgiven on the merits of another, and I must forgive for Christ's sake. By the way, here's the whole crux of the matter. It's for him. It's for him. We say, oh how we love Jesus. Do we love him enough to forgive We sing, oh, how I love. But do we forgive? Do we forgive? Do we let go of the offense? And forgive like he's forgiven you? I don't know about you, but probably the most wore-out passage in my Bible is 1 John 1. 9. Lord, forgive me. You said if I'd confess. Huh? Let's be real. I mean, there's no sense in playing We ought to be honest around here. And if you walk with God, you've got to go frequently to the throne room of grace and get forgiveness. Be cleansed from your sin. Get things right with God. But isn't it a blessing to know that every time you go to God with a broken heart and and an all uh seriousness and honesty, say, God I'm sorry, will you forgive me? That He cleanses and forgive his sin. He doesn't hold back and say, Well, I'm gonna let you suffer just a little longer. I'm gonna just put you through the paces a little bit more No, my friend, he's got an open ear and an outstretched arm, and he says, When you come seeking forgiveness, I'm ready to give it. In fact, he's so ready to forgive that he's ready to forgive before the offense is ever committed I think of that father who had his boy, that boy that broke his heart You notice a couple things that stand out to me about that. Number one is that he saw that young man afar off. You know what that tells me? He's looking for him. I don't know how long he was out in the far country, but here's what I do know, his daddy was waiting on him to come home. And he was looking for him. And then here's something else I found out just recently that in culture it was inappropriate for an older man to run. It wasn't culture. I mean how many of you say, Praise God? Because it's not physically advisable for an old man to run But then the Bible says he ran. That boy's coming home, and I don't think he's running home. I think he's kind of dreading that trip. Now the trip out of there was pretty quick and fun, but the trip back's always a whole lot harder. Someone says you have to cover twice the distance to get back from where you left. And he might have been shuffling his feet and kicking rocks and and walking slow, but not his daddy. When his daddy looked over that hill and saw him coming, he said, That's my boy. And he ran to him. And he ran to him. And then you know what the Bible says? He kissed him. One of the gospel writers records it in the plural that he k he he kissed him and kissed him again. And he k you know what those were? Those were kisses of mercy. Those were kisses of mercy. Sonia home, I love you. He kissed you. It wasn't just a cold kiss. My friend, it was passion. He said, Son, I love you. I'm glad you're home. I want to show you that I have affection for you still. And he kissed him in mercy again and again and again. That's the kind of father our father is. And he showers kisses of mercy on his children. Forgives us and forgives us and forgives us. You remember the Bible tells about a man who was forgiven a great debt. And it was utterly impossible for him to repay it. It was so big. And yet he had a man who owed him just a minuscule amount And he said, I'm going to put you in the debtor's prison. I'm going to make sure you're tormented until you pay your debt. And the man who had forgiven him much found out about it. And he says, how dare you? You've been forgiven all this, and you're holding this man for such a He said, you want to talk, somebody gonna suffer now. You're going to take his place. I'm going to tell you something. Unforgiveness doesn't cause you to lose your salvation, but it'll make you lose the joy of it. And there'll be a great deal of suffering that'll go along with your life and in your heart, and it may bring you to a tragic demise. Ahithophel refused to forgive David. I'm not saying what David did was excusable. I'm just saying Ahithophel refused to forgive him And because he held that so deep and strong and hard in his heart, Ahithophel would take his own life, step into eternity. With that on his record, all because he wouldn't forgive. If we were to ask some of the men involved in law enforcement different things, they would tell you a lot of murders are committed because of unforgiveness. A lot of battery, a lot of a lot of problems come in people's lives, because we won't forgive. I'm here to tell you the Bible's got an answer. For the problems that we face in life. Do as God does. Do you know conflict ends where forgiveness is extended? Not accepted. You say, but they wouldn't accept my apology. That's not your word. You ain't got to worry about that But conflict ends, at least on your part, when forgiveness is extended. Because the fire is put out. The battle's over. Church, deal with conflict. You may have to sit at a tension field table You may deal with some things over the season that are before us that it may be some things that come up. Just remember what your Bible says. Start with you, deal with your sin. Deliberately be kind, display tenderness, and do what God does and forgive. Romans twelve, eighteen says, if it be possible, as much as life in you, live peaceably with all men. It ought to be the mark of God's people that we know how to get along. Do you know it's a joke to the world? It's a joke to the world. They look at the church and say, man, if you want to see a good fight, go there. Because that's what Christians do. That's not what the Bible says. Christians ought to be good at dealing with conflict. Paul told those Corinthians they were going to law with each other. He says, Hey, you f you sort it out. You find some humble soul and you sort this thing out. You're going to rule with Christ one day. You're going to rule with him. You're going to sit with him in places of power and authority, and you can't sort out your petty little differences down here? In other words, he said, smarten up and get to it. And may the Lord help us to deal with conflicts that come our way in a biblical fashion. Forget about your culture and forget about what others are doing. Let's do it God's way. And see God's blessing on our lives and on our families and on our church. May the Lord help us with His word tonight. Father, we bow again in Jesus' strong name and thank you.