I want you to open your Bibles please to Ephesians chapter number six. Ephesians chapter number six, and I want to begin reading in verse number ten. Ephesians chapter number six and verse number ten. And I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please, and we'll honor the reading of God's word in this way. Ephesians chapter number six and verse number ten. The Bible says, Finally, my brethren. Be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world. against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore, take unto you the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day. And having done all to stand. Stand, therefore, having your loins girt about with truth. And having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints, and for me, that utterance may be given unto me. that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in bonds, that therein I may speak boldly as I ought to speak. I'm going to stop reading there, and the Lord helping me this evening, I want to add another study on this thing of discernment. We want to preach the Lord helping us tonight on discerning what we are up against. Discerning what we are up against. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would undertake just now. We bow our heads before you. We acknowledge, Lord, that without you we can do nothing. We're grateful, Lord, that greater is He that is in us than He that is in the world. And Lord, we pray for that help that only you can give in a moment such as this, with needs such as we have. And God, would you undertake for every heart, may we leave here, having been helped from heaven. And Father, for what you do, we'll be careful to give you the glory, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Man, you can be seated. I want you to notice something that is said here in my text. Look in verse number ten of Ephesians chapter number six. Paul uses this word finally. And I don't believe he's just closing out the letter I believe there's more to that little word than that. He's not just simply saying, now I'm going to wind it up, you know. Somebody said, how do you know when a preacher's almost done with his message you don't? I've heard a lot of preaching done after and finally or the final point. Do you know what I mean? But Paul's not doing that here, but Paul is calling our attention to something very important. He's giving us a final word of instruction. He's giving us a final word of importance, and he says, finally, it's almost as if he says, now please listen, because I've got something very important you need to hear. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Now, Paul is telling these believers that they need to be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Why is that? Why is he exhorting them to be strong? Because they are facing an enemy. There's a battle that's raging. There's a war that they're engaged in. And like Paul would urge young Timothy, thou therefore, my son, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Be strong in the grace that is in the Lord Jesus Christ. All of those are exhortations For men and women who are in a battle. And can I say to you tonight that we are in a battle? We're up against something that is very strong. Now I want you to think about what we're up against, but let me say this. We better be able to discern what it is that we're up against. It's not what it appears to be. You see, the Bible makes it clear on what front we're fighting. And isn't it a wonderful tactic, a very uh smart move of the enemy to get us thinking that the battle's over here when the battle's really over there. And to get us fighting on the wrong front. I want you to think about what front are we fighting on? Now, friends, some would say today, well, Pastor, we're in a political battle. I've got news for you. There is a political battle raging. But that's not the battle. It's not the battle. This this battle's not a battle of Democrat, Republican, Independent. That's not the battle. If that's all you see, you've missed it You've missed it. You need to understand that. There's a battle that's raging that is larger and more more important. There's a front Where the battle's hottest, and it's not in the political arena. This battle is not a battle that is being fought in a geographical location. Uh people say, well, you know, if I could just get away from here, I'd get away from the battle. You know what the problem is? The battle goes with you. Those old monks that said we'll traverse to the far corners of the earth. I saw a place where they built, I forget where it was, I think it was in the Andes But anyway they had a a a a monastery and and it it took some doing to get up there. You had to climb this big cliff and And uh they they went into seclusion in somehow or another hoping to get closer to God and away from the battle. And you know what they found out? They took the battle with them. Because the battle's not geographical. This isn't a geographical battle. Others may say to you, Well, I know what the battle is. The battle is cultural. It's a cultural battle. We're battling a new culture. We're battling, and and I must say that there is a change in culture, and that's the very notion of culture itself, because cultures are always changing. But church, this is not a cultural battle. This is not a battle that we're in that has to do with cultures. Young, old, new, whatever, it doesn't matter. We're not talking about a cultural battle. Others might say, no, here I the here's the battle, Pastor. The battle is on an international front If we could just deal with this country or this group of individuals and and and my friend I again I want to say the battle's not an international battle. You say, well preacher, what in the world is it? It's a spiritual battle Do you realize we're in a spiritual battle? There is a war that is raging. And when you see what's happening politically and you see what's happening geographically and you see what's happening culturally and you see what's happening internationally, you know what you need to note that written over the top of all of it is there is a spiritual battle that is raging. And we need discernment to see what it is that we're up against. There are three things I want to magnify out of this text tonight. And pray that excuse me that the Lord will use it for his glory. I want you to notice number one, the wilds of the devil. Would you highlight that? The wiles of the devil. It's found in verse number eleven. The Bible says, put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. What are the wows of the devil? Well, the word wows means the cunning arts, the craft, or trickery. It's what the devil does to do what the devil does. It's what the devil uses to accomplish what it is he's up to. Now my friend, I want you to know something. On the authority of the Bible, I believe in a very real devil. I believe that the devil is a is a individual. The Bible makes it very clear there's the doctrine of the devil that we learn in the scripture, the teachings of the Word of God concerning him. He is not a uh a figment of our imagination He is not a representation of evil. He is a literal being that has an agenda that is doing the work. He has wiles. And the Bible tells me very clearly here that I'm to put on the whole armor of God that I may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. You say, preacher, what are his wiles? Well, if you'll note, I believe there are three main areas that the devil works in. Number one, he's a deceiver. He's a deceiver. Look over in 2 Corinthians chapter number 11 with me. And I want you to see these texts because you need to discern the battle that you're in. 2 Corinthians chapter 11 and verse number 14. The Bible says, and no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Now what's he doing? What's he doing transforming into an angel of light? He's deceiving. He's deceiving. He wants you to think he is something other than what he is. He wants you to believe that he's doing something other than what he's doing He's like these uh these uh beer commercials on television. They want to show you a party and fun and good times, but that's deception, because that's not what alcohol's doing Aren't you glad you can have a good time without being drunk? You can have a good time without being intoxicated. Friend, listen, you can enjoy it and remember it to move. That's the blessing of not not using that filthy stuff But the reality is it's deception. Or they want you to think, man, you look cool standing there with a beer in your hand. But they don't show you the DUIs and they don't show you the broken homes and they don't show you the devastation that alcohol wreaks. They don't show you that. That's deception. And see, the devil will transform himself. No marvel, he said. No marvel. But the angel himself transforms himself into an angel of light. He's the deceiver. Mark this text down, Revelation twelve, and it's verse number nine. In Revelation 12 in verse number nine, the Bible says he deceives the whole world. It's talking about the devil. He deceives the whole world. Do you know what's behind the political madness and the cultural madness and the international madness? Do you know what's behind all of the insanity that you look at it with spiritual eyes and you say, How in the world can no one see that this is wrong and that we're going the wrong direction? I'll tell you what's behind it the devil who's deceiving the multitudes. He deceives the whole world. I'm talking about the wiles of the devil. That's what he's doing, church. He's deceiving. But notice this, he's also dividing. The devil's a divider. In Romans chapter, well let's just go back there. Romans chapter 16. The last chapter of the book of Romans. Chapter number sixteen. Paul says this in verse seventeen Romans chapter 16, verse 17: Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions and offenses contrary to the doctrine which you have learned, and avoid them. Now skip down to verse twenty. And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. Now if you'll read that whole chapter, you'll find out that the divisions he's talking about and the offenses that he's describing are all the work of Satan. Satan's a divider. You know what he's doing? He pits man against man. He he turns individuals against individuals. Can I say something to you? Your enemy is not walking around in skin, flesh and blood. Your enemy's not sitting in this church house tonight. Your enemy is not in another church somewhere down the road. It's not our enemy. Now there may be things I can't go along with. You know what I'll do? I'll leave them alone. Just leave them alone. There may be things that I can't uh involve myself with uh simply because uh uh of a doctrine or a direction, but my friend, you say, what are you gonna do? I'm gonna leave them alone Do you understand what I'm saying? The devil's a divider. I think we do a disservice to the lovely name of the Lord Jesus Christ when Christian pits against Christian. And God's people attack one another. Oftentimes it's it's very trivial, and generally it's juvenile But the reality is, my friend, that the devil's a divider. The devil's a divider. And then the devil is a destroyer. He's a destroyer. What are his wiles? He deceives, he divides, and he destroys. In John 10 10, the Bible says, the thief cometh not but for to steal, kill, and what? Destroy. He's a destroyer. First Peter tells us in First Peter chapter 5, verse 8, that the devil, he's a he's a roaring lion. walking about seeking whom he may devour. That's what he does. He devours. He's a destroyer And my friend, these are the wiles of the devil, and generally what the devil is doing will lend somewhere or tend in this direction: deception, division, and destruction. Those will be the trademarks of the devil's work. Now let me ask you something. What's going on in this world? What are we up against? What is it that we're seeing unfold? You pick up a newspaper and read it if anybody does that anymore? Or you flip on the uh television and watch the news, you pick up your phone and get the uh the news headlines or whatever it is you do, my friend, what do you see? You see deception, you see division, you see destruction. It's all the devil. It's the laws of the devil. That's what we're up against. And church, if you don't see what you're up against, someone said if you don't know the nature of the Bible, you'll fight with the wrong nature. If you don't know the nature of the battle, you'll fight with the wrong nature. If you're not careful, you get upset, man, you're ready to duke it out with the next person you meet that disagrees in the direction you're going. But I've got news for you, that's not the battle. We're not going to win the battle like that. We're not fighting a battle of flesh and blood. These are the wiles of the devil. But then I want you to notice the wrestling that's going on. The wrestling The Bible says here, go back to our text in Ephesians chapter number six, and it says in verse 12, for we wrestle not. Against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. You know what it means to wrestle. It means to strive for advantage. Get the upper hand. By the way, wrestling is not about strength, it's about maneuvering. I've seen little bitty fellas throw big old boys because they ha they knew the move. They they knew how to get the upper hand It's not about it's not about the size of the muscle. It's about the cunningness of the mind that can get the upper hand And you know what the Bible says? You need to know this. This is discernment that comes from the Word of God. We're not wrestling flesh and blood. You see, when when when you make the battle political, you've already missed the boat. You hear me? We're we're we're wrestling flesh we're wrestling flesh and blood. If we make this thing international or whatever it is, if we make it any of those things other than spiritual, we have already Jumped off on the side of flesh and we're trying to wrestle with flesh and blood, and you'll never get the upper hand there. You'll never get the upper hand there I want you to notice this battle is not a man-centered battle. He says again, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood. So you say, what is the battle? What is it that we're wrestling? Number one, we're wrestling an organized enemy. Do you know that see that little word there, principalities? It means to rank an order. To have one placed over the rest. You know what the Bible's telling me? The devil's got his act together. The devil's got his act together. You know how times we we think too too Naively about the devil. Almost like he's harmless. Sort of like he's a a little kid's uh you know story character and he really can't hurt you Well, the reality is he he's got principalities. There's an organization, there's there's an organized framework by which the devil works And and that's what we're wrestling against. That's what he's telling me here. I need to know where this battle is, and this battle's in the realm of principalities. The devil is an organized enemy. And don't think for a moment That you can outbox him on your own. He's an organized enemy. Can I say number two? He's an energized enemy. Look what it says. Powers. See that word? It means beings that are superior to man. He's energized. He's powerful. I've heard some fellas getting a big way of preaching. Boy, you've got to be careful when you get a big way of preaching. Because sometimes you can say stupid things. Amen. And I've heard fellows challenge the devil and call out the devil and it you know what it does? It makes every hair on my body stand up. Because I tell you what he's listening. And he's superior to man. You know what we are? Flesh and blood. On our best day. We're animated dirt. That's on a good day. That's all we are. And the reality is, who are we to think? Who are we to think? Who are we to think that we're something for the devil? The reality is that we're wrestling powers, beings that are superior to you and I Not only is our enemy organized and energized, but he's spiritual. He's a spiritual enemy. Look what the text goes on to say. The rulers of the darkness of this world Friend, do you realize there is a darkness in this world, and we're not talking about the time of day or the strength of the sun? There is a darkness that is in the world in which we live If the if the Lord could or would, he could, he he just chooses not to, and I'm grateful he does. But if the Lord would and he opened our eyes to see, there would be an awful scene before your eyes that you're unaware of. There are rulers of darkness. There's a battle. And sometimes, my friend, you get awful close to that battle and you feel the keen opposition. You you you know it's there, you can't see it, but you know it's there. You recognize the reality. I've I've told you this before, but living up north, uh, where there's very little gospel preaching, there's an oppression that's just general. It's just there. And the further you get from from places you you mean I'm sure Mexico probably wasn't much different in other places, Honduras. places that you've been around the world, there are there are places where the where the Word of God is not preached, there are not a lot of Christians, so there's not a lot of light. And because there's not a lot of light, there's a lot of darkness. And that darkness is almost tangible. I I can remember when we would uh begin to travel this way, and and it wasn't a psychological thing. It was a reality. You begin you get closer and closer and you start feeling that pressure lift, that weight come off And you realize, oh, that that that spiritual darkness sitting near as strong. You know what I'm trying to say? Don't look at me like I'm going weird here on you. I'm not being spooky. But it's the reality It's reality. We're talking about spiritual darkness, wickedness. Look, the devil is a ruler of the darkness of this world, and you and I need to know that's what we're wrestling against. It's a spiritual enemy. There's an unseen world that's in this world. There's an unseen battle that is taking place. uh un unbeknownst perhaps maybe may be known but nevertheless it's taking place. It's the invisible things of this world. And they're very clearly spelled out in the Word of God. Daniel got a glimpse of it Daniel was given some information about it. Daniel's praying about end times and what God's communicating in this prince of Persia. These demons, these spiritual wickedness. They're battling, those angels, and they're fighting, and there's a war. And so Daniel said, Daniel's told, look, when you started praying, I was heading your way But it got held up. What'd he get held up in? He got held up in a fight. He got held up in a battle And he had to do some babbling and he got some aid come to to uh uh another angel would come and help and and he get him away so he could go and he could deliver the message. Listen, that's the reality And just because you can't see it doesn't mean it doesn't happen. It's a spiritual battle that we're in, the spiritual enemy. Number four, it's an explicit enemy. What are we wrestling? Notice what it says. Spiritual wickedness in high places. You know what that tells me? That tells me that the devil is bent on depravity. He's set on it. He's militant about it. His goal is to corrupt, pervert, damn, and destroy. That's what he's doing. And the battle that you're in, the wrestling that we're up against, now you're saved going to heaven, the Spirit of God's living in you, you're going opposite of everything that's happening around you. And the opposition that you feel and the wrestling that's going on within is a battle against this explicit enemy who is set on depravity I was watching a man who was out in Vancouver, British Columbia yesterday And he was wearing a sandwich board or a signboard around his neck. And it said something to the effect that there's a new rule or law or something getting ready to be passed there in the parliament that has to do with transgender uh rights and being able to go in and teach the children in the school And he he's calling it child abuse. He's got this thing around his neck and he's just standing there. And you want to see hate. And and I thought as I walk and the the filthy language and and all of that and what they ended up doing to that man, and and I thought, you know, that's spiritual wickedness. Well I I know there's mi I know there's people involved, but but what I'm trying to say is there's something bigger than those people. There's something that energizes that kind of hatred. There's something that comes along and and and and causes a a a raging and a roaring within that says, destroy it, because we're bent on this. And my friend, do you ever step back and say, if we keep going this way, we're going to be in trouble? I'm talking about we're going to be in trouble. If we keep going this way, we're going to destroy our culture. We're going to devastate humanity and and and and listen, if we keep going this way, there's not going to be any babies born, any children had, no families raised. And and all that goes along with that, you say, Why are you saying that? Because we're up against spiritual wickedness in high places. That's what this is. I don't care what you say, but for someone to be so angry that they'll take little children's lives and other people's lives who are minding their own business and doing their own thing, that's spiritual wickedness. That's the workings of the enemy. The enemy's not a dead enemy. He's alive and well in the world that we're living in today. And you need to know what kind of battle we're in. If you sit and listen to the news, you're going to be convinced it's political. It's all political if we can just get the right people. I've got news for you. You better go higher than political parties. You better go appeal to a court that's higher than the highest court of the land. You better go gr right to the courts of heaven where you can talk to the God of heaven, the creator of the earth Who's able to do exceedingly abundantly above all we ask or think? There's a battle you can fight, church You don't need bald-up fists or getting black eyes over it. You just need a broken heart and a bowed head and a burden on your heart and an ab an ability to call on God in heaven. The battle that we're in, we're wrestling an enemy. We've got to know the nature of this fight so we can use the right nature in the fight. And then let me point out just quickly the whole armor. Because up to this point it seems pretty depressing or dark, really. We're dealing with the wiles of the devil. He's the prince of the power of the air. He's a deceiver. He's a divider, and he's a destroyer. We're wrestling uh against an organized enemy. Man, sometimes God's little children live such chaotic lives. I'm talking about spiritual spiritually speaking. There's no order, no walk with God, no discipline. And yet who are we to think we can stand against an enemy that's so well organized? And properly aligned so that he can do the most devastation with the least amount of effort. We're wrestling an energized enemy. He's powerful And a spiritual enemy, an explicit enemy. But I'm glad God didn't say, all right, Paul, close it out. He said, Take unto you the whole armor. Look at verse number 13. Wherefore? Because of this enemy you're wrestling, because of the wiles of the devil, take unto you You might want to highlight that because that's talking to you, brother, sister. He's talking to you personally. Preacher, I don't have to worry about the devil. If you're saved you do. Well, I I I'm not responsible for anything. Are you a Christian? If you're a Christian, you're enlisted in the Lord's army. God doesn't have any draft dodgers. You can't get out of it. You may not be aware of it, you may not like it, but the reality is you're in it. You're in the battle. You're in the battle. You've got an enemy. The moment you got saved, you become a sworn enemy of the devil. The moment you got born again and put into the family of God, you immediately joined the other side. You got, you know what the Bible says about you? He translated you. He transplanted you out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of his dear son. He went over into enemy territory, took a hostage If you will, and carries you out and put you in a new in a new realm. Thank God he did. Thank God he did. And my friend, you are now in a battle. Every one of us here, you're in a battle. And so you need the whole armor. Wherefore take unto you, you, individual, the whole armor of God. You need the whole armor. And I believe that whole armor is more than the six or seven pieces that are mentioned following. There's a few things I want to point out, but let me just say that and understand that God's made ample provision for victory. Because look what he says, take unto you the whole armor of God that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day. You know what that means? That means to endure. To get to withstand, to literally hold back the force. To hold back. You know, I was watching those trees blow around last evening. in that storm. Had my wind up and then I was listening after it got dark and uh man there were some of those big trees. I thought, how are they gonna stand all this wind? And you know, you I'm I'm sitting there thinking, boy, if one of them come down, we're in trouble. Thankfully they didn't. But you're listening, you're watching in that the story and you know what, after it was all over, I got up this morning, the wind wasn't blowing those trees, just standing there. You know what they did? They withstood. They withstood. Now, folks, I want to be able to withstand the enemy. And my Bible says I can. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God that ye may be able to withstand in notice this the evil day. Paul, what are you talking about? You you you talking about some particular day? I believe he is. I believe he's talking about a very particular day. I believe he's talking about the last days I believe he's talking about that day when the enemy 's unleashed in fullness. That day when there's going to be great opposition That day, he said that you may be able to withstand in the evil day. And watch this, and having done all to stand. That's when the battle's over. You withstand as you're in the battle. You stand once the battle's over. The Bible tells me very clearly that He's able To present me faultless and to keep me from falling in the presence of his glory. Jude 24. He's able. Get that part. He's able. I'm not able. I'm no match. He's able. He's able. I don't have to worry about the ability of God. I just gotta depend on it. I don't have to figure it all out. I just have to have faith in the power of God. He's able. He's able. It's it has nothing to do with what I what I am or you are. It has nothing to do with what we can do. Every one of us, if we put all of our efforts together. Would fail miserably. But let the God of heaven come to your aid and you'll stand and withstand. Because he's able. He's able. I want you to notice three things here, real quick. And first, that's the strength. Look in verse 10. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Here's part of your armor. This is part for the inside. This is the armor that energizes, endues, enables. What is it? It's the power of God. It's God's power. Friend, that's the only power you've got. That's the only power you have. I'm afraid we preach a Christianity that's half human, half God. It's a humanized deity. We we we we preach that. Well, you know, you gotta have a little grit, you gotta be determined, you gotta grind your teeth a little, you gotta and you know what we're saying? We're saying the Lord needs your help. Lord don't need my help. He don't need my help. He's able. He's able. I mean, listen, he's the one that I need to lean on. Oh and you know something? I think probably the greatest lesson God tries to teach all of us, or is is teaching all of us, is how weak we are and how strong He is. Nobody likes to be told they're weak. Isn't it funny we we live nearly our whole life trying to convince ourselves how strong we are. Until we realize that we don't have any strength and we need the Lord's. And then we live the rest of our lives trying to remind ourselves we're not near as strong as we think we are, but we have strength in the Lord. Our help is in him. He's our strength. Be strong in the Lord in the power of his might. That's the power of his supply. I believe that's what Paul meant when he said that I may know him in the fellowship of his sufferings and the power of his resurrection. You know what he wanted to know? He wanted to know the power of God. He prayed for these believers that they would be strengthened with might by his Spirit in their inner man. That's God putting in you what it takes to withstand and to stand. That's God giving you what you don't have. That's God supplying you with what you need. And whatever evil day it is, and whatever battle it is that you're fighting You've got to understand that there's a God in heaven ready to give grace to help in time of need and to give you all the strength that it's going to take. to get through to the other side so you can say, I withstood and I stood and I'm still standing, because God help me. God help me. Some of you need God to help you. The reason you may be floundering at the moment is because you need God to help you. You've been trying to help you. You've tried your friends. You've said, help me. Help me. And you need something bigger than them to help you. You need someone larger, someone stronger, someone mightier, someone able. Remember, we're not fighting a battle of flesh and blood. We're not talking about rounding up a posse and going after the devil. We're talking about getting weak so we can be made strong. We're talking about knowing there's a God in heaven who's the Lord of hosts. That's his fighting name. He's the God of the armies of heaven. And listen, you get him coming your way, you've got guaranteed victory. No wonder the old prophet looked around and said, you know, we're surrounded, but who cares? And the little servant said, Oh mercy, Master, what shall we do? We're going to get whipped. I mean, we're done for. We're dead meat. We're standing here and we're cut. I mean, they're everywhere you look. And the Lord said, Open his eyes. I mean the prophet said, Open his eyes. And the Lord opened his eyes, and he noticed that behind that enemy was a greater army, and the hills were full of the fighting forces of God. And man, his heart rested sure Would to God we could see it. Now God's not going to open your eyes to see it in this day, but He's given you a Bible, and may the Spirit of God help you to see that greater is He that's in you than He that is in this world. The whole armor is about strength. And then again, let me point out in verse number 11 this thing of stand. Put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wilds of the devil. Notice this ability that God gives to stand against who? The wilds of the devil. Understand this, please. You're not at the mercy of the devil. Thank God, because he has none. You're not at the mercy of the devil. You ever watch an old cat play with a mouse? I don't take this personal, but that's part of the reason I don't like those snakes with fur. But you watch them take a mouse and they'll play that thing and it won't kill it. You ever watch them do it? I've watched them around the barn all my life. And uh one time the in the barn we had three hundred plus cats in the barn. That's a lot of cats to watch. And everywhere. You go around 2 30 in the morning when we started milking, the first thing you do is reach in the bar and turn the light on. Inevitably you grab an old cat. You know, cats don't really like to be got a hold of that early in the morning. Just let me go on record to say that And so I started to get me a little shoeing stick and I helped clean the light fixtures out so I could get my light on without getting a cat attack. But you know, a lot of people think the devil just does what he wants to do. You need to know he don't. He don't have that authority. He does not have that authority. You say, preacher, based on what? Based on what the Bible says. He couldn't touch Job without permission. He couldn't do anything in Job's life without permission. He had to get permission from who? The Lord, our God, your Father, our Savior. He had to ask permission. Don't you think for a minute that he's let look if he was, not one Christian would be living, I think, at this moment. If he had no restraint, if the devil had no restraint, carnage. As far as Christian, I believe that. If he had no restraint, but he's got restraint, he's on a leash. He's on a leash. My dear brother, he worked in a business where he had to go to homes and do things, and he's an awful tormentor There's a dog there that tried to bite him and the owner put him out on a leash, tied him outside. And my brother would go by him and he'd bark at him. He's mad because that dog tried to bite him And he said that dog would run the end of that leash. He said I'd bark right back at him. Just stick my tongue out. You can't bite me. You're on a leash. He worked there all day long. And he said he got he got a little negligent. And that dog was very smart. He said that dog started running, but he he wasn't running the whole length of his chain, but my brother thought he was. So he'd walk by him and he'd make faces and all that and the dog would just bark. And he said, before I knew it, I was walking closer and closer without realizing it. He said the final trip of the day, he went out. And that dog, I don't know how that thing knew it was the end of the day, but he knew And buddy, did he get a hold of my brother? He said it it it was a thing to behold. I told him you reap what you sow. But you you know what? He didn't realize that leash. He thought that that leash was a little longer, or a little shorter rather than what it was. I've got news for you, friend. The devil's on a leash. God determines the length. God determines the length. And listen, he wanted to kill Job, don't you know? God said you're not going to take his life. Touch his body, you're done. As far as you go. I'm glad My father determines the length of the leash that's on the devil. You need to remember that. Let me give you the summary. The summary is in these these seven things that are part of what we use in the battle. Truth. Righteousness, the gospel, faith, salvation, the scriptures, and prayer. You know what all that is? That's spiritual armor for a spiritual battle. It's spiritual armor. We wrestle, listen, the Bible tells us the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but they are mighty through God. They're not things that I I I mean you don't put your helmet, a literal helmet on and take a literal sword and put a uh a breastplate on. No, no, it it's not a l it's a spiritual thing Because you're fighting a spiritual battle. And you and I need to take the things that God has provided and use them for the battle that we're in. You can't fight the battle without truth. That's why you need to know what God says. That's truth. You can't fight the battle without righteousness. Can I just simplify that and call it right living? What was I reading? Hosea chapter number ten. And the Bible says, sow to yourselves in righteousness and reap in peace. There's peace in doing right. Just do right. Just go sow righteousness. And and and this thing of the gospel, the gospel is a spiritual weapon. You say, why did God put that in there? Because that's the conquering weapon. That's the overcoming weapon. That's what you use. Listen, my friend, that's how we we we we take captives, if you'll let me put it in that way. That's that's what we use uh to see men and women change. You're not gonna argue folk in the the family. You're not going to fight with them about the foolishness going on in the world and convince them to follow Christ. You know what you do? Preach the gospel. The gospel is the power of God and the salvation to everyone that believeth My friend, there's still power in that gospel. Just preach it, tell it, like it is, let it go, let God do the work, and He saves sinners. That's what changes man's lives. Faith. Oh how we've got to have faith. What's faith? Faith is just that raw element that believes God in spite of everything that you want to believe or everything that you think you should believe and everything that that circumstances are telling you to believe, it's believing God. That's a spiritual weapon. That's what a part or rather of our armor. And salvation, and the sword, the word of God, the scriptures and prayer, all of these things, their tools, their equipment that God has given to us so that we can fight a spiritual battle. And don't forget verse 18 there again where it says praying always with all prayer, using every avenue of prayer. Using every leverage of prayer, using every opportunity of prayer. Praying always, with all prayer, and supplication in the Spirit, watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplications for all saints. I'll tell you something, there'll come a time in your life you'll want somebody praying for you. There's a lot of practical reasons to be a part of a church family. This is one of them. Because there may be battles unleashed in your life, and you're going to need somebody to pray. And I'll tell you what, praying, brothers and sisters are priceless. If you say he's praying for me, she's praying for me, they're praying for me. The reality is, my friend, prayer is one of those spiritual tools that God has given us to wage war with. Why do we do so little of it? Why do we make it so seemingly irrelevant? I think because it exposes our humanity and it exalts his deity. It's troubling in our old flesh to just get down and say, God, I'm not doing anything but asking you to help me. Prayer reminds me how weak and incapable I am. But it don't leave me in that condition because it reminds me how mighty and powerful he is. And it helps me know that I'm not just wasting my time. You've never listened you're not wasting your time praying. You may pray long You may pray long, but the Lord is hearing, the Lord is working. Oh Brother Paisley, I sent one of these videos, and a few of the guys told him to listen to it. He's preaching on revival. And he talked about going out to the Raven Hill Road, where he started that little Free Presbyterian church. And he had 60 members. Three months he had 30. He said they were dropping like flies. And so he decided one Sunday morning he asked the steward of the church to open every window and door. He said 30 of them are gone. He said, listen, I want to give you an opportunity. If you want to leave, you can leave. You can go out a window, you can go out a door. It don't matter to me. He said, but there's ample opportunity for you to leave. Just go if you want to go And he said they sat there like a bomb had been dropped. He said, All right, shut the windows and doors. He said, now what we're going to do is we're going to pray. And we're going to get serious about praying and we're going to ask God to do something in this town. And he said, here's what I want us to do. I want us to find the most awful sinner, the most wicked man or woman, the person in our community, I I want to begin to pray for that person to get saved. And they'd meet and pray at midnight on Saturday night. Often pray till the rise of the sun. And they pray, God work, God save. And he said, God began to save people. God began to work. One dear man in that community is a very evil man, a vile man. He ran a house of ill repute, in Paisley's words. And he said that man started coming in on Sunday nights and sitting way back in the back. He didn't get saved the first time. He didn't get saved the second time. But he said, in time, God saved that man and changed his life. He told Brother Paisley, he said, I got saved. I got saved. I've got to go out of business. And Brother Paisley said, Hallelujah. We've been praying for that. There's several of those dens of iniquity that shut down because of praying people. I'm telling you, friend, we're fighting a battle that we need to be praying more, not praying less about. If you've ever prayed for your family, you better listen, you need to be praying right now. You got gr kids and grandkids. Some of you even have great grandkids. Boy, you ought to be praying. You've got more reason to pray now than you've ever had. You've got more reason, and listen, you say, Well, that's not my lot. Well, I'll tell you what, there's a whole lot of folk around here that could use you praying for them And you and I need to be praying one for another. You ought to be praying for your wife and wife, you ought to be praying for that husband, because we're in a battle. We're in a battle. And and the only way we're going to come against what we're up against i i i is not with our arguments and not with impressive ideas, but what we're going to come against, uh the things that we're against, we've got to come with spiritual weapons. And the power of God, and we access that through prayer. And as we get a burden and seek God, we see God do what only God can do. God can get a hold of hearts. You say, this world's got them. It may have them, but listen, my friend, if God chooses in his rightful mercy to reach down and save them, he can't keep them. The world can't keep them. I'll tell you what, the devil can't hold on to a man and keep him from being saved. Listen, no more than he can dethrone Jesus from being the Son of the very God of heaven. God can save at the uttermost. He can bind the strong man. Spoil his goods. First time I heard an old brethren preacher pray that I thought, what is he talking about? And I read my Bible. And I found out in the Bible that he said when you you go in to to to rob or or or to spoil, you you buying the strongman. Then you spoil his goods. Well the devil's a strong man, but we've got a stronger, stronger man. And he can bind him and spoil him. Take his goods right out of his hands And that's why we need to pray. Look, friend, God's provided everything we need for this battle. And I'll be honest, it's sobering to think about the battle we're in. It's very sobering. And it's stirring to think about what we've been given in God's provisions for this battle. It ought to encourage us tonight. It ought to just settle our hearts, make up your mind. When we think about the truth that greater is he that is in me than he is in this world. Oh, I have a great foe. And I don't have listen, I don't I don't think we uh Appreciate the reality of the strength of the devil, like we should. We have a great foe But I want you to leave rejoicing in the fact we've got a greater friend. And that friend's the Lord Jesus. And rest in him. Preacher, I I I can't win this thing. No, I can't either, but he can. He can. I I I don't know if I can withstand. Well I can't, but with his help I can. He will. He'll enable. I don't know if I can get to the end of this thing and and stay true. Let me tell you something. He's able. He's able. Just lean in on him. Like like two sisters were singing tonight. Get close to the Lord. Get close to the Lord. You know that's where you're safe. I grew up in a kind of rough neighborhood and I got some boys mad one day and they're gonna beat us up I didn't know my big brother was home. My big brother's a big, big brother. He's not just big in age, he's big in body. Man, them fellas out there, they had me scared to death. Me and my buddy, we were hiding in the wood pile. We thought, man, we're dead. They had pipes and two by fours of nails in them, man, they're gonna teach us a lesson And I heard the screen door. I didn't know anybody was home, but I turned around and there he stood. Man, he looked bigger that day than he had in a long time. And he saw us and he looked out, he saw out across the hedge and those boys, and he knew what was going on. He knew he knew what was happening. And he came down off of those steps and he went out in that field. He chased every one of them little rats home. You say, what'd you do? I got up on the wood pile throwing dirt clods saying, Go on and get I got brave then. Big brother was there. Amen. So why you tell I'll tell you why I tell you that. You've got an elder brother. The Lord Jesus. Don't you be hiding thinking the devil's got your number? Just run to him. I'll tell you, had they turned around and come back, I'd have been around his leg and around his neck so fast. I'd have been like a black snake, I'd have wrapped up and held on. Because I knew he was my only chance. I'm gonna tell you something, but I'm learning he's my only chance. Thank God for Jesus. Let's stand together, please.