I read this week of a lady who heard a preacher preaching and said that Uh when the Lord sp spoke and was on this earth that he spoke the Koine Greek or the common Greek language. And oh how she began to cry. And she went to him afterwards and she said, Pastor When he speaks to me, he speaks in Gaelic. He said, that's absolutely right, because he knows how to speak to a man's heart. And I'm glad the Lord can speak. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to Luke chapter number twenty-four. I'd like to read a portion of scripture here in Luke chapter number twenty-four, beginning in verse number thirteen. You'll know this to be the Emmaus Road encounter. And I want to look at this encounter and learn some things from it with the help of the Lord. I'll remind you that several times after the resurrection, the Lord Jesus revealed himself strategically and purposefully. His appearances were not random. Now I know to the disciples it seemed a little random. It just one Sunday afternoon, or rather Sunday evening, they're in the upper room and all of a sudden there he was. These two disciples on the very day of the resurrection, they're on the road to Emmaus, and suddenly the Lord joins them But I want you to know that all of his appearances were on purpose. By the way, everything he does is on purpose. He does everything with purpose and plan. And so as we read the text, Luke chapter 24, look at verse 13. And behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about three score furlongs. And they talked together of all these things which had happened. And it came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were holding that they should not know him. And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another as ye walk and are sad? And one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering, said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days? And he said unto them what things? And they said unto him, concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty indeed and word before God and all the people. And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and have crucified him. But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel. And beside all this, today is the third day since these things were done. Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre. And when they found not his body, they came, saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre, and found it even so, as the women had said, but him they saw not. Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart, to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And they drew nigh unto the village whither they went, and he made as though he would have gone further. But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them. And it came to pass as he sat at meat with them, he took bread and blessed it and broke and gave to them. And their eyes were open, and they knew him, and he vanished out of their sight And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures? They rose up the same hour and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon And they told what things were done in the way and how he was known of them in breaking of bread. I'm going to stop reading there, but I want you to see the purpose here in this reve re revelation of himself to these disciples on the road to Emmaus. And may the Lord help us and speak to us this evening. Father, we bow in Jesus' name, certainly needing thy help We acknowledge, Lord, apart from you, we can do nothing. We cry out, Lord, would you please do the work that's needed in every heart? I'm thankful, Lord, the answers are here in the book. The need is always met by the Lord and the work of the Spirit of God. And we trust you, Lord, to help us in the way that you see fit. And the way that you know best. And God will give you the glory. Hide me behind the cross. Help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. Lord, work among us tonight. We've come hungry, but may we not leave that way. We ask it in Jesus' name, and God's people said, Amen. As I've already said several times after the resurrection, the Lord Jesus strategically revealed himself. Uh there in the garden tomb he revealed himself to Mary. We've heard about that in song. He made himself known to her, and boy, uh you know I've often thought about that. Mary had heard a lot of people call her name. She had heard her mother say her name, no doubt. She had family that said her name. She had friends who said her name, but nobody said her name like Jesus said her name. And when Jesus said her name, she knew who she was talking to And I'm glad you and I know when the Lord speaks to us individually, we know it's the Lord. But here he reveals himself to these two disciples. I've titled these two as the sad saints. And you say, preacher, how do you know they were sad? Well, verse 17 says That he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another as ye walk and are sad? They're sad. They're sad over the fact they don't understand what's going on. They're sad over the fact that everything's confusing to them. I thought he was dead. We thought he was the king We thought he was Israel's Messiah, but then he died. So I guess we don't think he's that anymore. Then they put him in a tomb. And now they they tell us he's not there, that he's alive. And they said some of them said they saw him, heard an angel tell them that that he was alive, and and yet we don't know what to think. You know what? They were in a state of emotional turmoil. I don't know what was going on. You ever been there? I'll tell you, I I don't I don't adhere to a kind of Christianity that never is real with the facts of life There's a lot of it that's superficial. I just soon call it showtime religion. It's not real because sometimes saints just are in a place of s of turmoil. They say, I don't know what's going on. I don't know which ends up. Uh somebody's always got it figured out. Don't have enough sense to figure anything out. Uh I'll guarantee you that. But here's two disciples, and they're sad. They're just brokenhearted. They don't know what to believe. He's not there. He was there. He died. We know that. They put him in the tomb. He's not there. Now they're saying he's alive. And so they're in that state of emotional turmoil. They're sad saints. You say, well, preacher, how do you know they're saints? You notice what the next verse says Or rather, verse 21 and 2. Here's what they said, but we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel. And beside all this, today's the third day since these things were done. Yea, look at verse 22, and certain women also of our company. You know what they're saying? We're one of them. We're one of them. They're saints. They're saying we're we're one of them. We're part of that company. We're a part of those people who are followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. Friend, can I say something to you? Don't ever be ashamed of the company They they may not be all they ought to be, but thank God none of them are what they used to be because of the grace of God. They said, We're part of that company. We're part of that group. We're we're saints. We're we're saved, but we're sad. And then the Lord begins to do some wonderful things. I want you to notice just several lessons from this road to Emmaus, this encounter on the road to Emmaus. Number one, Jesus is near. Verse 15, it says, It came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned, you might want to highlight these next four words, Jesus himself drew near. And it wouldn't hurt to m to highlight the next four and went with them. Everybody who's saved can say Jesus is near and went with me. Everybody who's saved knows this, we have an ever -present Savior. The Bible says that he said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. That means that he's never going to abandon you on the side of the road. We're taught when the coming of the Spirit of God took place Jesus said that I will not leave you comfortless. The word literally means I'll not leave you as abandoned orphans. I'll not leave you as those who have been rejected and been placed aside. Who was telling me? It was Sarah who was telling me that all of the fire stations in Ohio have baby boxes. And that people can bring unwanted children and put them in those those boxes. I thought, my, how sad it would be I'm glad there's a place like that for the little one to be spared. I do praise the Lord for that. But can you imagine as you grow up and thinking about that in that sense? But Jesus said, I'm not going to leave you comfortless. I'm not going to leave you an orphan. He said, I'm going to draw near and I'm going to go with you. Now you may go through some rough waters and you may go through some real storms, but you've got one who will never leave your side. Jesus drew near. These disciples, here they are. They're sad. They're saints, but they've got a Savior who is present. As he walks with them, notice number two. In verse 16, the Bible says their eyes were holden that they should not know him. Would you note this tonight? Sometimes he conceals himself. He hides himself. The Bible says that again Their eyes were holding. Who holding their eyes? Who held their eyes? Who blocked their who covered their vision? Who kept them from knowing it was him? He did He did. Because we read at the end of the chapter or the end of the verses here that we just read, and the Bible says he opened their eyes. He's the one that let them know. Hey, sometimes the Lord will conceal his presence Sometimes the Lord will cause you to think and and allow you to think that he's not there. That somehow or another you can't find him. Isn't that what David said? I looked on my left hand, looked On my right, he he looked in every direction. He said, He's not there. I can't find him. He often conceals himself Now I want you to think about this. Although he's always near, by the way, he's there. They just don't know he's there. And you and I can rest assured he's there. We may not know he's there. It may not feel like he's there. We may not think he's there, but he's there. We all, I'm sure, know that little poem Footprints in the sand. And it talked about, you know, the Lord said he'd never leave and this person's looking back down the journey. And they said for so many miles we saw two f sets of of prints walking along, but then suddenly we realized there was only one. And it was always at the hardest times, the most difficult times, just one set of prints. He said, Lord, why did you leave us there? And the Lord said, I didn't leave you there. It was then that I carried you. It was my footprints that you're seeing because I was there. Now you study your Bible, and every saved person is going to go through a place where God conceals himself. Where the Lord hides himself. You know there are Christians who say, I've always felt the Lord near, and I feel like saying, You don't have to impress me. Because the truth, that's not true. That's not true. I I'm telling you, better Christians than you and I have said, Lord, where are you? John the Baptist was the greatest, according to Jesus, man who walked the earth save himself. That's what he said. He said, There's none greater born among women. This man, he was a great man, and he's sitting in prison. He had the privilege of baptizing the Son of God, saw the Spirit descend. had all of the the privileges of being the forerunner and he sits at the end of his life and says Are you the one? Are you really the one? He's so rattled and he's so broken and so concerned about what's lying ahead, he doesn't know. Are you really the one he said, hey disciples, go ask him. I need confirmation. I'm just not sure he's the one. And oh, I love what Jesus said. When Jesus began to talk about John, you know, I'm sure the whispering was going on. They weren't Baptists, but they're about as bad as them. And they started whispering and saying, Can you believe it? Can you believe that John said that? Can you believe that John, that mighty preacher, that great man of God, that man who stood and denounced sin? Can you believe that he's sitting over there doubting in prison and Jesus said, What'd you go out to see? You didn't go see a reed shaken in the wind. You didn't go out to see a prince clothed in soft raiment. You went out to see a man of God. A true man of God. And he came to his defense. And then he said, You go tell John. And oh, I'm glad what he told John brought comfort to his heart. It reminded him, yes, I am the one. It may not look clear now. It may be confusing at the moment, but just know this, John, I'm still the one. Now look, Jesus will often conceal himself and hide himself, and you'll find yourself saying, Lord, where are you? But I want you to notice he's always near. And then notice the third thing here that he's interested in our grief. In verse 17, he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another as ye walk and are sad? In other words, he said, Tell me what's wrong. Just tell me. Now by the way, you know I learned early in life, if my mother asked me a question, she knew the answer. Did you have a mama like that? She didn't ask for information, she asked for confession. That's what she's asked for. I learned that. I had to learn that the hard way. But she knew what was going on. When Jesus asked for a question, he asked a question, he's not asking because he don't know He's asking for that heart. Tell me, tell me what's wrong. Give me your burden. Share your grief. Don't you love the fact that you can tell it to Jesus whatever it is? You can tell him about it. You may not be able to tell anyone on earth. But I'm glad you can tell him. And he said, You just tell me, tell me what's wrong. Mr. Spurgeon said about this text He said, It is good to let sorrow have a tongue where sympathy has an ear. It's good to let sorrow have a tongue where sympathy has an ear. I'm glad there's a sympathetic ear up yonder in glory. I'm glad the ear of God is open to the complaint of the saints. And you read those next four verses and they tell him. They tell him. They just tell him what's going on. They said Uh listen, we uh here we are and and we thought he was Messiah. We thought he would redeem Israel. They put him on a cross, he died, they put him in a grave. Now that he's gone. They're just telling, they're just bearing their heart I'm glad I can bare my heart to the Lord. I'm glad I got one that I can tell my grief to and pour my heart out and know that He's got not only an ear to hear it, but He's got a hand to do something about it. Thank God for a Savior like that. He's interested in our grief. But then this is where it gets a little personal. We've got to trust his diagnosis. Verse 25, he said unto them, After they're finished, they're pouring their heart out. They're saying, Lord, Lord. You know, we don't know what's going on. We we believed, and then he and he said, fools and slow of heart to believe, all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? You know what he's saying? He's not calling them fools in the sense of those that Don't believe in God or don't trust God. But he's saying to them, It's foolish to let this unbelief keep you in this place of sadness. Their hesitancy to believe held them in the iron grip of sorrow. He said, You're slow to believe. Look, look, he he had already told them. He had already told them, destroy this temple, three days I'll raise it up. The resurrection was not a surprise gotcha moment. It was the fulfillment of what he said he would do. He told them, I have power to lay it down and I have power to take it up again. He had already told them, and and had they believed not only the Word of God or the Words of Christ, but the very Word of God They would have recognized, yes, he's alive. And then again they said, some of our company said he's alive. But do you hear that little note of unbelief? They said he's alive, but you know. Maybe it was a sort of a personality thing, and these two disciples said, Well, you know, Mary You know Mary. Aren't we all like that in some way? Somebody tell you something, well, you know so and so. Well they might be telling you the truth. And they were telling the truth, and he said, You're slow of heart. His diagnosis, listen, Jesus will never flatter you with the lie, though he might wound you with the truth. He'll never flatter you with a lie. He don't do that. He don't he he doesn't play that game. But he will wound you. That truth sometimes may cut deep. And that truth may hurt and and we may have to encounter and face the fact, yes my heart is slow, yes my heart is is full of unbelief, yes my heart is hesitant, oh let's be like that man who said, Lord, I believe, but help mine unbelief. Lord, I need help. And listen, I'm glad we can trust his diagnosis. Then he does this. Number five. And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Two things in this statement. The Bible has the answer. Jesus is the answer. That's what they learned. The Bible has the answer. Well listen, when you don't know which way to turn, you never go wrong turning to this book. When you say, Preacher, I just don't know what to do, have you ever turned to a friend and been disappointed? Sure. That's not the friend's fault. They just don't have the answer. Or perhaps you've turned for counsel and you've said Please, please, just tell me. I remember battling something, and I went to a pastor friend of mine and I told him about it, and he said, Well, God 's gonna have to help you And RJ, that made me mad. I wanted him to help me. But he said, no, God's gonna have to help you. And listen, you know how God helps his people? He does it through the Word. Through the Bible. These disciples were sad as they walked the road to Emmaus. And Jesus shows up and he doesn't give them an emotional charge. In fact, he kind of deflates their balloon a little further when he says, you are slow of heart. But then he takes the scriptures and he opens the scripture and he starts saying, This is me. This was me, and this is me, and this is me And this is me, and this is me, and this is me, a until they got to the point they got to the point he's talking about him And he pointed them to himself. He expounded all. And listen, what kind of conversation was that? All things concerning himself. Starting at Moses. My. I wish that was recorded and preserved somewhere. Don't you know that was something to hear? But wait a minute. It is recorded. Because he took it right out of here. All things concerning himself are recorded right here. And the same thing those disciples heard, you can hear if you'll just open the Bible and start looking for the Lord Jesus on every page. You know, some people go about the Bible completely wrong. Some people study the Bible to win an argument. You're wasting your time. Some people studied the Bible to prove that they are right. I am right. And so they study the Word of God to prove they're right. Some study the Bible just to simply get the knowledge or have the knowledge of the information that's in the pages of the Bible And you're wrong. There's much knowledge there. But my Bible says knowledge puffeth up. You know why we ought to study the Bible to meet Him? To meet Jesus on its pages. Because you see what Jesus did, he could have done anything in this occasion But what Jesus did was to take the scriptures and introduce himself through the scriptures to these saints. Now why did he do that? Because there'd be some saints setting in in twenty twenty five sitting here in Elkton, Maryland, at Marinatha Baptist Church, and there might be some sad saints on their own road to Emmaus, and they're going to need something that's going to help them get along down the road And you know what where we're going to get help? We're not going to get it looking here or there. We're going to get it by looking in the Word of God and looking to be introduced to Jesus in a fresh way and to meet and walk with Him on the pages of His precious word. Yes, the Bible does have the answer. And the Bible will take you by the hand and introduce you to the Son of God. It'll do it every page. Every page is a page that reach out , takes an outstretched hand and says, come, let me introduce you to Jesus. Let me show you something else about him that you do not know. We've taken a couple of history tours and And uh we were on one particular tour, and this the guide of the tour was very knowledgeable. It was almost as if That God had lived a hundred and fifty years ago on that grounds and knew that person individually. That's how uh how clear they made everything and how intimate they were in their introductions. And and they would stop and say, so-and-so sat under this tree and and he did this one day. Like they were sitting there with him. And I thought, boy, I don't know what they pay you, but they ought to double it, because you're good I've been on a few that I would I've been, you know what, I could do a better job and I know less about this situation, but you're making it so dull, I don't ever want to come back here. But man, this person was doing a great job. And they were making this person and this person's ambition and this person's desire and this person's life so real It was like we turn a bin and you're thinking, are we going to meet them? I mean, I know they've been dead a hundred years, but are we going to meet them? Because he's talking with such clarity and with such authority. But then my mind went back and I thought, but I've got a Bible that does the same thing. The Bible talks with clarity and authority about Jesus Christ. And the reality is, is I can meet him. He's not dead. He is alive. And I can have fellowship with him just as he walks with me on this earth. From the pages of the Bible. Thank God for his word. Then I want you to notice a couple of more things. Verse 31, the Bible says, and Their eyes were opened, and they knew him. I would say number six on this Emmaus Road encounter, we need our eyes open. Well, preacher, I'm saved. My eyes are open. You know, you're you can be saved and not have your eyes open. You know, some animals are born with their eyes shut. Kittens can't believe I'm using the thing in a good illustration, but And other little animals are born, their eyes are closed for so many days, and then they open. They're alive, but their eyes are not open. Many of God's people are alive, but their eyes are not open. They leave their eyes open. And notice when their eyes were opened, what did they do? They knew Him. They knew who he was. They recognized him. They realized that, oh, he is near. He is with me. He's not left me. He is alive. Look, he's walking with us. He's talking with us Oh, how I need the Lord to open my eyes. Church, how we need the Lord to open our eyes so we can know Him. There's a lot of things that you can know in this life that won't benefit you one bit at all. But knowing him is the best knowledge of all that we can have. They knew him. He opened their eyes and they knew him. Do you know him like that? I've seen people sit in church, saved, going to heaven, and they sing hymns and they hear sermons and they pray prayers, but they've never had their eyes open to know the Lord. They don't know him in that way where he's so near and real. They live in a fog. They sort of live, you know, just wandering about, almost like the man who Jesus touched, and he could see men, but he could just see them like trees walking. His vision was not refined. And God wants to refine your vision. He wants to open your eyes so you'll know him. By the way, that's not an intellectual exercise. That's a spiritual experience That's the working of God Himself in a person's heart that allows them to know Him like He is to be known. Jesus is not a doctrine, we simply believe. Jesus is not a creed that we confess with our lips. Friend, he is a living, breathing person just as alive as you sit here tonight and thank God you can know him like we know each other. You can know him like you know your best friend In fact, you can know him better than you know anybody else because he's that close to us as God's people. We need our eyes open. Let me give you one more We must enter the fellowship of the burning heart. Look at verse 32. They said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us? While he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scripture, did not our heart burn You see, before this their hearts were broken. They're sad They're burdened down. The Bible says heaviness in the heart of man makes him stoop. Makes that heart just you know what I'm talking about. Your heart just heavy, loaded down, their burden But now they get to talking and they've been in the presence of the Lord. He's opened their eyes and they knew him, and they said , Your heart doing what mine's doing? You feel what I'm feeling? Did not our hearts burn within us? Do you know what they were saying? They were saying, our hearts have been stirred with devotion. We've been stirred with a flame that's on the inside. A little bit of what happened to Jeremiah back in the Old Testament when he folded his arms and threw down his Bible and said, I'm finished. And the Lord said, Really? You ever been there? I finished. They say every good preacher writes his resignation about every third Monday. I don't know if that's true or not, Andy. You'll have to fill me in, but the reality is Jeremiah couldn't quit. Why? Thy word was like a what? Fire shut up my bones. He said there's something burning inside of me. I gotta give way. I gotta let it out. I gotta make a way for it. I'm burning Oh, listen, dear friend, as you have these Emmaus Road encounters, we must get to the place where we enter the fellowship of the burning heart. That we have a heart that burns with devotion for the Lord Jesus. That we love him so much that we get the I can't help it. You know, when I came along and started preaching, my preacher would discourage us from preaching. He'd try to talk you out of it. And I remember hearing him say one day, I kept going back and saying, I I I think the Lord wants me to. He said, I'm not sure. And finally, I heard him preaching one day, and he said, Don't do anything until you get a good dose of the I Can't Help It 's Well, one day I got it where I couldn't help it no more. I had to. It was something burning in my heart. Do you know, dear brother or sister, the Lord didn't save you to be just a dead old bump on the log? He saved you to put a fire in your heart Now the devil wants to put it out, your flesh wants to put it out, but God wants to stir it up. These people entered into that fellowship. Now look, they they had taken a journey And I'm sure that was quite a long way for them to walk. And and all of a sudden they forgot about the miles and they said, we better go back and tell them. We just got here, but we're gonna go back and tell him why. He had a burning heart. I'm saying a lot of hard things get easier when you get a good case of heavenly heartburn People say, well, you know, going to church all the time is just a it's just too much, preacher. You know what they're saying? My heart don't burn enough. Amen. My heart don't burn enough. It's just too much for me to be there on Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night. I've never heard anybody with a burning heart talk like that They jumped right up like they did and head back to Jerusalem and say, We saw the Lord. He is alive, just like they said. You know why they had a heartburn on They were burning inside. Lord, we love you so much that whatever it is you require, God, I'm willing to do it. Oh, church, have you got that burning heart? The resurrected Lord wants to give you that heartburn. Boy, we need to get it. God help us to get out of this silly old rut of just going to church in a routine. Well, it's easy. You've been saved a while. I fight it. You have to fight it. You've been saved a while. You go to the house of God. Well, I've done it my whole life. And and and it becomes routine. We're going to go sing a hymn. We know all the things that we're going to do, but dear friend, listen. God help us to get some heartburn. So that it burns that when it comes near we're like, Lord, I can't wait to get there. I can't wait what you gonna speak, how you gonna speak to me, how you gonna work in my heart, what you gonna show me, how you gonna make yourself known. Oh God, give us burning hearts. I purpose by the help of God to put as much gas on the fire as I can. Now some of the snowmen sitting in the pew ain't gonna like it, but they'll just have to melt and get over it. Ian Paisley said you put a fire in the pulpit and there'll be no snowmen in the pews. May God help us. We need to have a heartburn. Here their hearts began to burn. This was no dry discourse. Oh no. This was no intellectual gymnastic. This was this was God speaking and their hearts responding. They weren't just getting their heads swelled, they were getting their hearts fixed. No wonder David said, My heart's fixed, oh God. God had done some things in his heart. Church, may we get to the place where we want God to do some things in our hearts I remember old Leonard Ravenhill coming to our church. I was just a little boy and scared to death of him. He was an Englishman who had gotten converted and God had given him a revivalist ministry. And he was one of those unusual men of God. He was serious, dead serious 24-7 And he was all I mean he was always just looking, and I felt like when he looked at me as a little boy that he was looking at how rotten and no good I was. And he would look at you with those eyes that would just pierce. Now I remember Sunday morning he got up and he had taken a door hanger off of the door of the hotel that he stayed in. And he had fixed a little thing where it could hang it over the end of the pulpit. And he threw that thing over the pulpit as he laid his Bible down. He said, Most of you feel this way, but I'm here to change that. You know what it said? Do not disturb. And boy did he go to disturbing. He didn't quit preaching until about 1. 30. Never raised his voice. He was not emotional. He was an Englishman through and through. He did not get overly excited. He wept a couple of times as he preached, but oh the power of God that was on him. I remember, I'll I remember it clear as day. We got home at four o'clock From the morning service. Oh, we had some locker in here. Wow, what did they disturb such a Dignified mourning. I mean you ruined the day. What happened to meals? We weren't worried about meals. I wasn't converted, but I knew somebody bigger than preacher than the people were there. I was not saved, but I sensed there's somebody here. And there's something going on that I can't explain, and I'm scared to death to to offend or hurt. I I'm telling you, God was so real you just were afraid to do anything That would stop the Lord from doing what he was doing. And I still see old Ravenhill close that Bible and take that sign. Put it back in his Bible. And say, oh God. As he lifted his hands up and prayed, he said, disturb these people. Disturb these people. You're not going to get a heartburn till you let God disturb you. If you're comfortable, you're likely cold. But here they are. God's met them in a dark place, a difficult time. And he stirred that fire. He said, Man, our hearts burn. He talked to us in the, when he talked to us on the way, and he talked out of the scriptures, all that fire began to burn. Now I'm going to tell you what'll make you fireburn. You get a good dose of the truth of God's word. That'll make the fireburn. Our emotions and a whole lot of other things will just do what they do. They're kind of like a flash in the pan. I used to Joe, you remember we used to collect birch bark to start our fires. We keep boxes of birch bark. Birch has an oil in the bark and when you light that man it p it'll flame up Good starter. It lasts maybe thirty seconds. Sometimes a minute. Not much of a fire. Pretty impressive But you can't get warm by it. You got to put something substantial on that fire to get that thing warm and burning where you can get warm. You got something substantial right here in the Word of God. And we need that fire burning in our heart. Here they are on the road to Emmaus, and God starts a fire. You know, this encounter was a picture of what God wants to do. It's a picture of what the living Lord wants to do in all of our lives. Because he wants to walk these roads to Emmaus with you. He wants you to know that he's near. And he wants you to know that sometimes he conceals himself. And he wants you to know that he's interested in your grief. He wants to hear your complaint. You can trust him when he diagnoses you, even though it may wound. Know that the Bible and Jesus are the answer. We need to get our eyes opened by the Lord, and we need to get in that fellowship. Or we'll have a burning heart. May the Lord help us tonight. Maybe some tonight need to enter the fellowship for the first time. Of the burning hearts. Lord, set my soul afire. An old Scottish hymn. That is an old Scottish hymn. Set my soul afire, Lord. That was a hymn that was born in the revivals of 1930 and 40. And they would sing that, set my soul afire. They wanted their soul to burn. Oh God, make our souls afire for the Lord Jesus today. Give us burning hearts. Do you need a burning heart? Oh, may the Lord help us. Would you stand with me, please? Could our pianists come and play? If you need to pray, let's take this time to do that now.