I want you to open your Bibles, please, to the Gospel of Luke, chapter number 10. Luke chapter number 10 And I'm going to start reading in verse number 25. I'm reading down to verse 37 this morning. Luke chapter 10, verse number 25. I'll invite you to stand with me please as we honor the reading of God's Word. In Luke chapter 10, the Bible says in verse 25, and behold, a certain lawyer stood up. And tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? He said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou? And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself. And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right, This do, and thou shalt live. But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbor? And Jesus, answering, said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. And by chance there came down a certain priest that way, and when he saw him he passed by on the other side. And likewise the Levite, when he was at that place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion on him. And went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn and took care of him. And on the morrow, when he departed, he took out two pence and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him, and whatsoever thou spendest more when I come again, I will repay thee. Which now of these three thinkest thou was a neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves? And he said, He that showed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise. The Lord helping me this morning, I want to preach on an encounter with Jesus. An encounter with Jesus. Our Father, we come in your presence once more, so much aware how much we need your help this morning. We bow ourselves before you and acknowledge, Father, apart from you, we can do nothing. So, Lord, be our help. I pray for these moments we have together, you'll quieten our hearts and calm our spirit and fix our eyes upon thee. Help us, Lord, to get from heaven what we need. I pray for the dear folks that are gathered in this place. You know each one by name. You know every need of their heart. And I pray that, Lord, truly, we could walk off of this property. And know that we've had an encounter with Jesus. We love you, Lord. We thank you for your love for us. We plead thy blood and thank you for the victory that's ours through the Lord Jesus who loved us. And gave himself for us. For it's in Jesus' mighty name we pray. Amen. You can be seated. I imagine that the bulk of the New Testament could be called simply an encounter with Jesus. Um it's a record of people, both men, women, young, old, rich, poor. uh those that were healthy and those that were sick. Folks of every sort that met the Lord and after meeting the Lord were made much different than before their time of meeting him. Now the reality is that though Jesus don't walk this earth in a physical body, he does work among people still today. And the desire of his heart is that for you and I to have an encounter with him that will be life-changing. Here is a man that did. And although we don't know what happened to him, the Bible's very silent on that, we do know he had an encounter, one of which he's accountable for, will be accountable for. And that could very possibly have left him a different man. I want you to think with me about three things that are magnified in this verse. A lot of times when we read this, people say, well, see, even Jesus said, go and try to keep the law and you'll be okay. But that's not what he's saying. Nowhere in the Bible does the Lord ever contradict himself. Now, it may appear that way to us, but the problem is not with the Bible. The problem is with our understanding. So here is the place where we've got to get some understanding. I want you to notice three things in my text this morning. This will be my message. Number one, I want you to see man's problem. Man's problem. Number two, I want you to see the law's purpose, because the law does have a purpose. And then number three, I want you to see a loving picture. And I like this about our Lord. Our Lord makes things so simple that even a child can understand. And he often does it in pictures. He draws pictures so that you and I can understand what he's saying. So let's look first at man's problem. You'll notice here in the text, starting in verse number 25, that a certain lawyer stood up and tempted him, saying, Master What shall I do to inherit eternal life? I want you to notice that, first off, man's problem is that he's not serious about his soul. You say, but preacher, he asked a question. He asked a good question. He said, What shall I do to inherit eternal life? Can I remind you the Bible not only reveals the question, but it reveals the motive behind the question. It says, tempting him. You see, he didn't want it really want to know the answer. He was already set so far as he was concerned. He was just playing the game and trying to get Jesus tangled up in his words. He wasn't serious about his soul. You know, here is a man who's perishing, a man who's going to die without Christ, and yet he's playing a religious game. You say, preacher, how do you know he was playing a religious game? Well, he's a lawyer. You say, what does that mean? Well, he was a lawyer of the law of God. He was a man whose whole purpose, his whole job, was to take God's law, interpret it, and apply it so as to accuse or justify the actions of others He knew the Bible as far as the Old Testament is concerned. He knew the law, and he knew the laws that were written about the laws and the laws that were tacked onto the laws. and all the other multiplication of laws that they'd come up with in that day. He was an expert. He was an expert. Well, I'd stay there a bit, but I'll just preach the Bible here. He was playing a religious game. Here is a man who was an expert of the law who did not know the Lord. Now look, you you and I don't perhaps you're sitting here, you're not playing the Judaism game, the religious game, but you can play the Baptist game. You can play the Methodist game, you can play the Presbyterian game, you can play all of the religions of the world. You can play that game and not be serious about your soul. He's about to meet, he has met, he's going to encounter the very one who could give him eternal life, and yet here he is playing games. It reminds me of the Roman soldiers who gambled at the foot of the cross. And here are men who needed the mercy that was being extended on that great day. And yet they're playing their games. It's another day, it's just another crucifixion, it's just another uh uh job that we're having to carry out and get done, and yet all the while hanging within earshot. Is the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. Here is the one who could pardon and put away every sin that ever committed, and yet they're playing the religious game. I want to ask you this morning, are you playing the religious game? I think it's awful easy. Our brother talked about this. We get caught up in all of our doings and all the things that we do. And it's awful easy to get caught up in the religious game and forget the whole reason for it all It's awful easy to get caught up in the religious game. Even you say, but preacher, we're Baptists. Well, we're not exempt from these religious games. Baptists play religious games too. And so here he is, and he's playing a religious game. He's not serious about his soul. Here's the second thing I want you to see about him. He's ignorant of the scripture. You say, hold on, preacher, you said he's an expert. Well, how many of you know an expert don't know everything? Some experts don't know hardly anything. But here's an expert that was ignorant of, you know what Jesus said? What is written in the law? And here's the big question: how readest thou? What's written, you you know what's written, but what is written, what's really written, and how readest thou? How do you read it? What what is it saying and and how are you interpreting? And again, he was he was literally ignorant of the scriptures. He was blind to the truth while being being an expert in the details. I believe I need to say that again. He was blind to the truth while being an expert in the details. He knew He knew all of the he he knew all the the jot metidle. He knew all the dots and the cross. He knew all of the details. He had all of that down pat. I mean right down to the point where he could stand in a court of law and and be used to to condemn or condone whichever way the court was going. And uh he he had that ability, but yet he was blind to the truth that standing right in front of him Is God's own salvation. Here is the here's the very Savior, the Son of God. And listen, my my brother, sister, and dear friends, you can sit in a church, you can hear the gospel, you can carry a Bible. You can be confronted with the life-saving message of the gospel of Jesus Christ and be an expert at all the details and yet not know the truth. There are many people today who know who Jesus is, but yet do not know what Jesus does. They know who he is. They know what he came for. My wife was raised in a Methodist church. She was very faithful there, very big part of that. And the night she got saved, she said, I'll be honest with you, that is the first time she was 18 years old when she got born again. She said, That was the first time I ever heard why Jesus died. We were at a youth meeting and the preacher got up and preached the gospel. She said, I knew that he lived, I knew that he he walked among men, I knew that he was perfect. I knew he was an example. I knew he died on a cross. I knew all of that. I knew the story, but I didn't know the reason. And my friend, you can be religious to the hilt and know all the story and know all the details. In fact, my friend, you can know the gospel and yet not know the saving power of the gospel. You can know the gospel story that Christ died for your sin. Good friend of mine today, uh he's he was saved handing out gospel tracts. And he'll tell you that he knew he wasn't saved, but he went to this church. They said everybody who's saved ought to, uh, you know, he wanted to fit in, so you carry tracks and you give them out. And the reason he got to that church is because he had a flat tire one Sunday morning and the man who owned the tire shop in his town was a religious man in his words and he said, I knew he would not fix my tire if I didn't listen to his talking. So he shared the gospel with him, fixed his tire, and he said, well, I prayed so he'd hurry up and get my tire fixed so I'd go on my way. But he wasn't saved. He started going to that church, started carrying tracks, started giving out tracts, started doing all that, and he said one day he is sitting on his lunch break and said, I wonder what these things say. And he opened it up. I'm telling you, listen, he's been to this church twice now for two weddings. And he said, I opened that track. I sat there and I read it. And he said, I've never really done that. I know that story. I've heard everybody talk about it, but I have never been saved like that says you can be saved. I I'm just trying to say this morning that you and I can can get in the game and we can be a part of what's going on. We can know uh and be an expert of the details but yet not know the truth of the saving power of Jesus Christ. Jesus is more than a theology. Jesus is more than a doctrine. Jesus is a living person who changes men and women's lives by his mighty power. Boy, I'll tell you, when Jesus saves a soul, he makes all the difference in the world. Here's the third problem this man had. He desired to justify himself. Verse 29 says, But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, Who is my neighbor? He wanted to prove, can I say it like this? He wanted to prove he is right. Can you imagine standing before Jesus, the very Son of God, and being worried about who's right? Just know this, he's always right. He's always right. But here he stands and he says, now I gotta justify myself. So how am I going to do this? How how am I going to counter what he's just said now? He's a lawyer. He's a sneaky little thing. He said, I'm going to figure this one out. Here's what I'll do. Who's my neighbor? How do I figure out who my neighbor is That'll get him. Well, little did he know who he's dealing with. See, man has to be right. You know what that is? That's problem. I've gotta be right even if I'm wrong. Now listen, there's some awfully saintly looking folks sitting in front of me. But I know this, all of us got the same birthday present from the devil. It's called pride. And we all want to be right even if we're wrong. How many of you as a child can remember a story, an account in your life where you knew you were wrong, but you weren't going to admit it? It's like the little boy eating chocolate cake, got chocolate all over his lips and his face, and his mother said, Did you eat that cake? Well, I mean the evidence is there. It's staring him. I mean, she's looking right at his little chocolate covered lips, and he said, You know why? He knows he's wrong, but he's gotta be right And I'll tell you, we justify. Here's what the Bible says, we justify. He's trying to justify himself and say, look, I'm right about this thing. You're wrong. And by the way, you'll never get saved justifying yourself. Yeah, but preacher, you don't know what I've done. You don't know how how how religious I am. You don't know how good I am. You don't know all of my record. I don't need to know all your record. Here's what I do know that we're justified. By grace, we're justified by faith when we believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm not justified by anything I do. or can do or have done, I'm justified in what Jesus did for me on Calvary's Hill. That's the only way. And by the way, we all share the same problem this ancient man had. And that is that we're often not serious about our soul. We somehow think that we're going to get by on a different plan. My wife has an uncle and he told me one day, he said, me and God have a we got a deal. He was a notorious deal maker. And I said to him and said, Daniel, you need to be saved. And he said, oh, don't you worry about me. We got a deal. And I reminded him as graciously as I could that there's no deal-making with God. One mediator between God and men, that's the man Christ Jesus There's one deal that's accepted in heaven, and I dare I heard I almost shudder to say it, but there's one deal that's accepted in heaven, and that's the blood shed on Calvary. That's the payment God made for sin through his son when he died on the cross. That's the only way, uh dear friend. And you and I, unless we get serious about our soul, we we like this man will walk away. Lost. And undone. Number two. You say, well, then what about the law? Well, I want you to notice the law's purpose. You say, but Jesus said, go keep this commandment and you'll live. Well he did say that. But let me note something here, if you're making notes, that the law's purpose, number one, makes demands that are impossible. What did he say? Verse 27. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with what? All thy heart and with all thy soul and with All thy strength and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself That's impossible. Oh, I hear, I know we get all excited sometimes. We say, I love God with all my heart. Do you? My Bible says that the heart's deceitful and desperately wicked, no man can know it. There are portions of my heart and portions of your heart that are undiscoverable in many ways. And the reality is it's impossible for me to do that. That's the point of the law. The law is to show me the impossibility of keeping God's standard. And then he says this, love your neighbor as yourself. I imagine he lives in probably an uptown neighborhood. He's a lawyer. He's probably well off. He's living among the people of his religious persuasion. And so he probably is just smiling and sort of polishing his chest. Saying, I've got that one, I'm okay, I love my neighbors as myself. And then he says, but now who's my neighbor? And our Lord takes him quickly to the fact that there is a man broken and beaten and laying in a ditch, dying, and he says, hey, that's your neighbor. And the Samaritan that helped him is your neighbor. And what about your relation? By the way, that name Samaritan sent a shockwave through that crowd. Because they hated him. There was a racial hatred for the Samaritan people among the Jews, and especially these Orthodox fellows. There was such a a despising of these people and and the minute that name came out I'm sure they saw red and and and now the Lord's saying, You love him? I'm just saying that the law has a purpose, and the law's purpose is to show me that it is impossible for you and me to live to God's standard. God's standard is such a high and holy standard, there's not a man alive who can keep that standard. There's only been one who did. And his name is Jesus Christ. Number two, you'll notice that the results of this are undesirable. Here is a man who said, Well, I've done that. I keep the law. But yet let's look what the law leads to. So Jesus tells the parable of the of the uh the wounded man here and the Samaritan. And he talks about these two people that come down. He said there, and by chance there came down a certain priest. Alright? He's a representative of the law. And then there's another man who's a Levite. Both of them represent the law. They're busily engaged, employed in carrying out the dictates of the law as far as worship was concerned. These individuals stand as as uh as people who say, this is the way of the law, this is what the law produces. And yet here's a broken man laying in a ditch somewhere, and the and the priest says, I can't be defiled by that. I got across to the other side. And the Levite says, oh, I can't do anything for him. I'll just go on around him and continue my journey and mind my own business. Do you know what the Lord was saying in this parable? He was saying that the law cannot save man out of his sin The law has never lifted a man out of a ditch. The law has never healed a man that's been wounded. The law cannot do that. The law has no capability Oh, you know what? The Bible talks about the letter of the law. What does it do? It kills. That's all the law does. The law takes me and it makes me bare and open before God and says, here's the reality. The law is a mirror. It's a mirror that shows me the despicable nature of my of my heart. It reveals my lost estate. It shows me my need for Christ. Now how many of you have been on airplane? You flew somewhere? Alright? Lord bless you, is all I can say. But you get on an airplane and they come down the aisle, the the stewardess or whatever comes down the aisle, and uh I understand, you know, they'll give you snacks and what have you And so you're sitting there and she comes by and says, Wouldn't you love to wear a parachute? And you're like, Not really. I mean a parachute on my back? Yeah, a parachute on your back. It'll make the journey more comfortable. And you say, no way. I can't lay back. I can't get comfortable. I can't, I mean, how am I going to have a good flight with a parachute on my back? Now you get up about 10,000 feet, and you're flying along, and the stewardess comes down the aisle and she says, I want you to know we've lost both engines. And this thing's going down and it's going to go quick, so you better take a parachute. I'll tell you what, there's going to be no pleasantries exchange. You're going to take that parachute. You're going to put that on your body and you're going to hope that thing will deploy when you start downward. You know what the law does? The law doesn't come along and say Oh, it'll be a better ride, it'll be more comfortable for you. The law comes along, opens you up before God and says, Look, you're lost Your holiness does not meet God's holiness. Your righteousness is void. You don't have any. What God demands of you cannot be fulfilled by you, but there is one who will save you. There is one who will redeem you. There is one who will transform your life. He paid the price. He went to the cross. He rose again. He'll save you. Now, friend, that's the work of the law. But you'll notice this. I notice in this text a need that's undeniable. I'm talking about the lost purpose See, the law's like a funnel that gets me in one direction. It gets me to this place right here. Right here. I need mercy. I need mercy. I need mercy, Lord. That's the lost job. To bring me to the place where I say, Lord, I need your mercy. Listen, the problem is we don't understand. We need mercy. We often think, well, God, I'm a pretty good fella. I'm a pretty good lady. I I'm all right. I can get in on my own. I'm doing okay. And I've got news for you. You're not okay if you're not saved. You need mercy. I met a man one time. He shook my hand just as firm, looked me in the eye. He said, I want everything God's got for me. Everything he wants to give me. I want it. I said, sir, are you saved? He said, not at all. I said, you don't want what's coming. And then he grabbed my hand, he got a little stouter, and he said, Yeah, but I really want to face God and plead my case and tell him I want what I got coming. And I don't normally talk this way, but I said, sir, you're a fool. You're a fool. Because what you're asking for is a judgment you cannot endure. If you tell God you want what you deserve, you know what the Bible says? The wages of sin is death. That's what I've earned. That's what I deserve. I've earned that spot in hell. I've earned that place because of my sin. We all have, according to the word of God, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. I don't want what I got coming to me. I want mercy. But I'm here to tell you that in Jesus Christ mercy can be found. I'm glad there's record in the Bible of people who said, God be merciful. Just be merciful, God. And God was merciful. Oh, there was a man, he didn't say give me mercy, but he said remember me, which is another way of saying it, as he hung on the cross next to Jesus, Lord remember me, and Jesus said today thou shalt be with me in paradise. God gave him mercy. God will give every person mercy who will cry out to Him for it. I believe that. I don't believe there's a plea for mercy that goes ignored. I don't believe there's anybody who goes to God for mercy and says, Lord, have mercy on me, I'm a sinner. Have mercy on me, I broke your law. Have mercy on me, I deserve a place in hell. Have mercy on me. I don't deserve to be saved. Have mercy on me, Lord. I believe Jesus died for my sin. Listen, I don't believe there's a person that gets serious like that that doesn't get saved. They may not know all the Bible, they may not understand everything that happened, but I'll tell you what, if they're serious about business, God's serious about his business, and he shows mercy when a person cries out. I'm glad there's mercy to be had. That tells me something about the Lord, by the way, that he's not a man. Man's not good at showing mercy. And if he is, he's selective. We'll show mercy. I ain't gonna show you no mercy. A selective mercy is not pure mercy. The thunderings of the law makes man's heart cry out for mercy. Makes you want to flee from the wrath to come. You ever been caught out in a thunderstorm? Had to run for shelter? I can remember on the farm cutting hay in a field somewhere, and you start seeing them clouds roll in, you're thinking, oh no. And then you start hearing the distant rumbling over them mountains, and you see a flash here and there. And before you know it, it's right on you, and you've got to just leave the tractor and equipment and just run as fast as you can and take cover somewhere Boy, what a relief it is when you get out from under that torrent of rain and that thread of being struck by lightning and you get into that place of refuge and you're like, whew, I'm glad this is here. The law is the thunder and lightning of God. And that law rumbles and that lightning flashes and says, judgment is coming, judgment is coming. But there's a cross over here where Jesus died. It's the refuge for man's soul. And my friend, if you'll flee to that refuge, there's a place of safety in the person of Jesus Christ for everybody who will trust Him to be their Savior. And you know what? The law still does that same work. Nobody cries for mercy that's not been struck by the law of God. And let me show you a loving picture. And I'm glad our Lord does this. He draws the picture here in this Samaritan story. He talks about first a wounded man. You see him in verse 30? That man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment and wounded him and departed, leaving him half dead. This is a man in bad shape. By the way, this is the way sin leaves every man. Leaves them in a mess. And you know, this wasn't an unusual thing because this road was a dangerous road that was traveled, and it was often traveled uh by these priests and Levites because they would live over in the village and travel their way back up to Jerusalem and it was it was plagued with thieves and robbers. And and people that would jump you and beat you and take your money and leave you. And that's that's that was just the norm of traveling that road. Here's a man laying in the ditch, dying. Oh, I know the devil offers a whole lot of things and he says, uh this is uh th this will be fun, this will be but I'll tell you it ends somewhere You know where it ends? It ends right here in that ditch. It ends in that ditch, stripped, wounded, bleeding, dying, the Bible says half dead. But do you know if you're a sinner, you're all the way dead? The Bible says you're dead in your trespasses and sin. So here is a man that's been left wounded, a man been left in his sin. Oh friend listen, I I don't know about you, but can I just say I wouldn't want God to come a and find me in that condition I wouldn't want to be left in that condition for all of eternity. To die in your sin. To die lost and separate. Brother Billy Kelly used to preach here years ago Just before he got saved, he was bad to drink, and they were out drinking and got in a fight, and they beat him up and threw him out in a ditch, and those boys were going to kill him. Said they took a a sheet of tin and they were gonna just cut him and end his life. He said the last thing he remembered before he passed out was that sheet of tin just blowing up. A gust of wind lifted that thing and just sort of laid right down over his body. He woke up that next morning in that filth and he was trying to figure out all that had gone on and remember all that had happened. And he said, You know, I was just that close. I was that close. Friend, you and I don't know the day of our death. We know it's appointed unto men once to die. But to die in our sin, what a tragedy. It's the saddest thing of all. It's not often a sad thing to die. It brings sorrow, yes, but to die in your sin is the saddest thing of all. And here is a man that was in that shape. But not only do I see a wounded man, but I see once again helpless religion. Both the priest and Levite passed by. Why? They couldn't do nothing for him. And I'll tell you something, I'm not standing here offering a Baptist bill of goods. Because the Baptists don't have nothing to offer you. I'm not standing here offering you a religious deal. I'm standing here to tell you Jesus saves, Jesus saves, Jesus saves. This religious people couldn't do anything for that wounded man. He's laid out there dying. They walk by, leave him in his sin. But now I see a merciful Samaritan. Now, I believe that this is a picture in a limited way of the Lord Jesus. I believe it's a picture of Jesus. You say, why? Well, look what he did. This well by the way, I could say this, look who he is. He was despised. They hated the Samaritans. They hated Jesus too, by the way. And so that Samaritan, what did he do? He saw him and he had compassion on him. I'm glad the Lord saw me one day, had compassion on me. He could have just went on and not saved me. He didn't owe me nothing. He could have left me down there in the hills of North Carolina and let me live a rebel's life. He could have just walked on by and still been God and still been good. But in his mercy he had compassion. Hear that Samaritan look and he had compassion. And then you'll notice next what he did. He went to him. He went to him. He didn't say, hey, straighten up and get out of that ditch and get over here. He didn't do that. He went to him. When I could not go to where he was, he came to me. He came my way. He came my direction. He went to him. And then look what else he did. He bound up his words. I'm glad the Lord binds up wounds. My what a Savior the Lord Jesus is. He'll bind up a broken heart. You see, I've been disappointed in men. I'll tell you this, you'll never be disappointed in Jesus. Oh, he bound up his wounds. Then he did something else. He poured in oil and wine I believe both are a picture of the Holy Spirit. Poured it in. Aren't you glad when you got saved somebody moved in? Oh, you say, preacher, I'm doing the best I can. That's your problem. Let him do what he does. There's too many people trying to be Christians that need to trust Christ to make them Christians. He poured in the oil and wine. Not only did he pour in the oil and wine, but he set him on his own beast and brought him to an end and took care of him. He just took care of him, took him into his custody. Took him under his wing. Took him under his care and said, now you're my responsibility. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. Friend, when you got saved, he took you on. He took you in. He made you apart. He made you a part of his family. He took you in to take care of you. That's exactly what he's doing. He cares for his own. Our brother was talking about it this morning in Sunday school, about our purpose and our plans. Our purpose don't change. Our plans, my goodness, change by the hour be time. And yet, we often get so absorbed in the plan that we forget the purpose, and we've got to remember something: that there is a God in heaven who orders and directs the steps of men. And however he directs and guides and whatever detour you may think you're on, God still cares for his own. One of the most beautiful pictures of that is the Old Testament, where for forty years the backslidden people wandered in a circular fashion in the desert because they wouldn't obey the Lord, and yet God gave them food to eat, He gave them water to drink, He gave them clothes to wear and shoes on their feet. He took care of them. Why? Because God cares for His own. We ought to let the goodness of God lead us to repentance. Well, preacher, I've been successful. I've not done what I should, but I've been successful. Can I remind you? God's just been good to you. Don't take prosperity as a sign of God's blessing. There's been many of a people, poor and broken, that have entered heaven rejoicing, rewarded greatly. And there's been a many a rich man lift his eyes in hell. Temporal blessing is no sign of God's approval or of his pleasure, but I do remind you that every good and perfect gift comes from above. That it's the God in heaven, whatever you have, and wherever you're at, and all that you enjoy, is is his good hand, and he needs to get the glory for it, and it ought to draw us closer to him. He took care of him. And then I love this. When he got him there to the end, he took out two pence, and he gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him, and whatsoever thou spendest more when I come again, I will repay thee. You know what he did? He covered his bill. Covered his debt. Two thousand years ago on a hill called Calvary, the Lord Jesus paid my debt. Paid it in full. Paid it in full. He didn't pay part of it. He didn't put a down payment on it. He didn't put it in the layaway program. He paid my debt in full. Martin Luther, the great reformer, was given to visions and dreams. He had a dream one night that the devil showed up and sat on the foot of his bed and began to enumerate his sin. He said it terrified him. He said he had a scroll that he unfolded, and as he unfolded that scroll, more and more sin, more and more sin. He said, I felt myself sinking. He said, as I got to the place of despair, the devil got up and walked away. But he said, suddenly it flashed in my mind, he didn't unroll the scroll. And he said, I summonsed him back and said, Unroll the scroll. And he said he unrolled reluctantly the scroll. He said, now read what's written at the bottom. He said he read with a hesitant voice, it is finished. My sin debt was paid in full on Calvary's Dark Hill. Jesus paid the debt, my friend. He said, whatever, whatever I owe, he said, when I come again, I will repay thee. Our Lord paid the debt Full, complete, and total on Calvary for you and me. The old hymn says it like this: Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. Satan had left a crimson stain. He washed it. White as snow. Now, friend, listen, there's salvation available. God still does this for the broken and bruised. Hey, the Pharisee, or the Samaritan, or rather the Levite and the priest, and that crowd may not have time for the man in the ditch, but Jesus does. Religion may not have room for those that have broken and bruised lives, but Jesus does. That crowd that might look down their long spiritual noses may not have time, but Jesus does. Jesus does. Jesus is still going into the ditches and pulling them out. He's still going into those deep dark places and he's dug some of you right out of that same place. You know the neighborhood I'm talking about. You've lived in the vicinity. You've laid in the same ditch and you've seen the Lord come by and lift you up and wash you off and make a new person out of you. Oh, praise his name. You say, preacher, what happened to this man? We don't know. The Bible goes silent right here. It's like a page is turned and there's nothing more to say. Did he trust him? We don't know. We don't know. But here's what we do know. My story and your story is not finished being written. And I want to leave you with this thought. What will you do? With Jesus. What will you do? Oh preacher, I I I uh I uh my my my friend or my neighbor, my mother, my father, whoever, that they I'm not worried about them What will you do? What will you do with Jesus? Preacher, I don't need Jesus. What does the scripture say? How readest thou? For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. You need Jesus. Oh, but preacher, I'm okay. I've got this thing worked out. I've got news for you. It is the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world, not the works of men. What do you do with him? Ah, preacher, I'll just I'll just go my way and I'll figure it out one day. You know what you're doing? You're rejecting Christ. What will you do with him? What will you do with Jesus? It's the most important question you'll ever answer. I'm not trying to get you to be a Baptist. If I could make you believe like I believe with the force of my little finger, I would not exert it. I believe God and his Bible and the Holy Ghost are big enough to bring about the result. But what will you do with Jesus? A. B. Simpson, the old hymn writer, said, Neutral you cannot be. For one day you will be asking, What will Jesus do with me? If you're not saved today, I've got good news for you. You can be. Christ died for your sin, all of them. Paid the sin dead in full. He was buried and rose again the third day. And the good news is he saves whosoever will. Whosoever will. We sung it, I believe, last Sunday. Whosoever will may come. But dear friend , ask you as a believer just quickly, what have you done with Jesus? You know, the Samaritan, I believe, is not only a picture of the Savior, but he's a picture of the Saint. Because the Saint is going to be doing what the Savior did. And that's going after that crowd in the ditch. If your salvation has no time for the lost, you need to make sure you have Bible salvation. People need the Lord. Our brother made it clear this morning. We got a purpose. Oh, we can't go to Mexico He can and has and shall again, God willing. So that he can tell people about Jesus. But you can go to work tomorrow. Or you'll go home. Got neighbors. Some of you have family. They need the Lord. And you and I could be telling them the good news. Oh, may the Lord help us today. You need an encounter with Jesus? Just call on him. He's a prayer way. He'll save you. Dear Christian, maybe we need to get reacquainted with the heart of the Savior. So that we can love those whom the Lord loves too. Would you stand with me, please? Our brother's coming to lead the hymn of invitation.