To the book of Acts this evening. Acts chapter three. Appreciate the good spirit in the meeting this morning and the attentiveness of God's people. And I believe there are folks in here that needed Christ this morning and keep praying that souls would be saved. I know that's part of your Prayer request should be a part of your prayer request each and every day that souls will be saved And that uh God's word would be heard. We're living in a day where more and more people reject the word of God as the word of God. And um we need to be faithful to hold fast the word of faith. And um And just preach it and believe it. It is the hope of this world. This is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And um And so keep praying about that. And uh I I know you're praying for the meeting. I appreciate that. And we'll look at a passage here this evening, Acts chapter 3. That is a very pivotal point in the book of Acts and also in church history. We're going to read about the first apostolic miracle. That is the first miracle that was performed by one of the apostles following Christ's ascension back to heaven. And it made quite an impact. in the city of Jerusalem. And so I want to read about it tonight and and uh pull some things from it tonight that I hope will be a blessing to us. So Acts chapter 3, I invite you to stand as we read the text. We'll read The first sixteen verses of the chapter, Acts chapter three, beginning in verse number one. The Bible says, now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, being the ninth hour. And a certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried. whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple, which is called beautiful, to ask alms of them that entered into the temple Who seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple asked an alms. And Peter, fastening his eyes upon him with John, said, Look on us. And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something of them. Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none But such as I have, give I thee. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. And he took him by the right hand and lifted him up, and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength And he leaping up stood and walked and entered with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God. And all the people saw him walking and praising God, and they knew that it was he which sat for alms at the beautiful gate of the temple. And they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which had happened unto him. And as the lame man which was healed held Peter and John, all the people ran together unto them in the porch that is called Solomon's, greatly wondering. And when Peter saw it, he answered unto the people, Ye men of Israel, why marvel ye at this? Or why look ye so earnestly on us? As though by our own power or holiness we had made this man to walk. The God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob The God of our fathers hath glorified his son Jesus, whom ye delivered up and denied him in the presence of Pilate when he was determined to let him go. But ye denied the Holy One and the Just, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you, and killed the Prince of Life, whom God hath raised from the dead. Whereof we are witnesses. And his name, through faith in his name, hath made this man strong, whom ye see and know. Yea, the faith which is by him hath given him this perfect soundness. in the presence of you all. I want to preach tonight from this story on expectations. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the day you've given us God thank you for the Scripture. Lord, it thrills our hearts just reading the words that you have pinned down by the Holy Ghost, and you have preserved for us in this English language, in this English Bible we call the King James Bible. It's such a blessing to our hearts to know that all of these words are true. And they're not men's words, they are your words. And Father, I thank you for these stories that you have preserved in Scripture that we might look at them and learn from them. And Father, I pray that you'd help us tonight as we examine this great story, these real people that experienced a real move of God among them. This man who was lame and and yet uh he was raised up by the power of the name of Jesus Christ to walk. Father, I thank you for this, and God now help us As we look into the Word of God, Lord, I pray that it would look into us as well. And Father, that it would show us where we need to draw nigh to you. And Lord, that it would encourage us and strengthen our faith. Lord, there's someone here tonight, or more than one here tonight, who needs to be born again. Father, I pray that by your Spirit you would bring about an awareness to them of their situation. And Father, I pray that you would set uh put upon them a sense of urgency to call upon Christ to be born again tonight. Father, revive your people. Strengthen us, dear God. Draw us closer to you, Father. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you for standing. You may be seated. It's a great story in the Word of God. As I mentioned, this was the first miracle that the apostles performed after Christ went back to heaven And this miracle really, if we continued reading, you would see just how this miracle really turned the city of Jerusalem upside down. And I was wondering about that, thinking about why was this miracle so important? Well listen, they had become accustomed to seeing Jesus perform miracles, but now as far as they knew, Jesus was gone He was off the scene. And maybe those chief rulers and priests and scribes and Pharisees thought, well, he's out of the way. We won't have to deal with the name of Jesus anymore. Well, they were going to find out that Jesus was alive and well, that his Spirit had been sent, not only to comfort the believers, but to empower them. to do great works for the Lord. And here the Lord uses Peter and John to raise up this man who had been lame from his mother's womb. The Bible says Uh he'd been lame uh from his mother's womb. And the Bible tells us much about this man in these verses, and and I want us to think about them By way of introduction, this is a great picture of salvation here before us tonight in Acts chapter 3. Here's this man, he's sick from birth. And this and what a picture of sin and that all men that come into the world, you know, this great argument between uh you know, are we born sinners, are we sinners by nature, or are we sinners by choice? Well the answer to that question is yes. Amen. We are sinners by nature, and we are sinners by choice. Each one of us have chosen our own way. We've all gone astray, amen. All we like sheep have gone astray. But we know that uh from birth we are sinners, we're created uh in the image of God, and yet that image was tarnished by Adam. He sinned, and so death passed upon all men for that all have sinned. And so this man stands as a type of the sinner. And uh and he is lame, sick from his mother's uh womb, and uh he's sitting at the gate of the temple, but he's not allowed entrance. into the temple. His sickness and his infirmity keeps him from entering into the temple. And a picture of how all sinners are without salvation. We cannot work our way into heaven. We are not strong enough to get ourselves into heaven. And we've got to have help. Amen? And this man, he's sitting at this gate And he's wanting to go in, he's wanting uh to uh he's he's expecting something, and and then we see this uh the witnesses that came by The witnesses of Christ's resurrection that are sent by this man's way. You remember the witnesses that came by the way in your life? Maybe it was somebody knocking on your door. Maybe it was a parent or parents that told you about Jesus as a child. Maybe you walked into a church one day. uh just looking for something because you knew you were empty inside and a man of God stood up and preached the word of God and preached the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ The witness of the resurrected Savior, and you heard that witness, and you believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you were saved. Amen. There were witnesses that came by and told this man of Jesus he was healed in the name of Jesus. And that's the power of the gospel is in a person. It's not in a work. Amen. It's not by works of righteousness which we have done. But according to his mercy he saved us. It's the name of Jesus that brings salvation. And this man is healed. By the name of Jesus, the power of Christ's name. And now he enters into the temple in the story. What a great picture of salvation. that we have before us here tonight. But I want to focus in tonight on a passage that really arrested my attention a few months back. And it's in verse number five of this statement that's made In verse five of chapter three, when Peter and John come by and tell this man to look on them, look how he responds what the scripture says. He gave heed unto them Expecting to receive something of them. You know, I believe with all my heart this man received something because he was expecting to receive something. I wonder as I was thinking about this passage and thinking about this meeting in particular this week, how many of us are coming into this meeting expecting to receive something? One thing's for sure, if you're coming here, if you've come into the service tonight and you've expected to receive nothing, you probably will receive nothing. But I believe if you've come into this place tonight expecting something from God, then God will do something in your heart, in your life. He'll bring about some knowledge of some things in your life. He'll bring about maybe some healing in your heart and in your life. He'll bring about some awareness of some things in your heart, in your life that need to be changed. God will do something for those who expect it. Expectation is the act of looking forward to a future event. With at least some reason to believe the event will happen. Me we might call it f uh faith or hope. And it is closely aligned with prayer. We read about in John chapter 14. If you want to turn there, we're not too far away. Look back at John chapter 14. Hold your place there in Acts chapter 3. In John 14. Jesus says this to his disciples in verse number 13. He says, Whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If ye shall ask anything in my name, I will do it. We're reminded here again of the power of the name of Jesus Christ. Just as the power of Christ's name brought this man uh from uh from a state of being lame to a state of walking Listen, the power of the name of the Lord Jesus Christ can meet our needs and can and can answer our prayers. And so there's this expectation when we pray, we should have an expectation that God hears us And that God will answer according to his will for our good. Look at James chapter 1, if you will. James chapter 1. When we think about expectation and faith, we understand that faith is measurable. You can have no faith You can have great faith. You can have little faith. All of these things are defined in the Word of God. We're told that in Romans chapter 12 that God has dealt to every man a measure of faith. That's good to know, isn't it? But is there something if it's if it's a measure, that means it is measurable. And I want to have great faith. Not in myself, not even in you, but in God, in God's word. This idea of expectation. James chapter 1, tremendous passage on On prayer and on expectation. In James chapter 1, look at verse number 5. The scripture says, if any of you lack wisdom, Let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not. And it what's the next word? Shall be given him. You understand that's a promise in Scripture? It starts with an if. And the if is if any of you lack wisdom. I would raise my hand there. I would raise both hands there. I feel like uh the older I get and the further I get in this thing, the less wisdom I actually have. And um uh you know when you're young you feel like you have all the answers, but you're deceived. The fact of the matter is, the more I go in this Christian life, the further I go, the more I realize how desperately I need God's wisdom in every area of life. If any of you lack wisdom, that's me. Let him ask of God. That sounds so simple, doesn't it? No, it's often the simple truths that are the most overlooked. He said, You have not because you ask not. Well, that's pretty simple. He said, Let him ask of God, and here's the promise attached to this: that giveth to all men liberally. That's when it's good to be a liberal. Amen. The only time. Except with your money. Amen. Be a liberal giver. Give it to all men liberally, that means he gives you more than what you need. And upbraideth not, that means he's not going to scold you for needing it. That's a blessing, isn't it? And here's the promise. It shall be given him. That's pretty solid, wouldn't you say? That's a solid statement. That's what makes verse 6 So amazing of a statement following that up. But let him ask in faith Nothing wavering, for he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. But let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. As is often the case, there are conditions placed upon the promise that God has given. The promise is: if you lack wisdom and you ask of me I'll give it to you liberally and I'll not upbraid you, it shall be given you. And yet the provision that he puts upon it is you have to ask in faith. Now here's the question. The question I have If you don't believe you're going to receive it, why are you even asking? And yet you you you understand here tonight How many times? I'm going to speak by personal experience because I don't know your heart, but I know there's been many times I have mouthed a prayer worded a prayer to God, and in my heart I was not filled with faith that I was going to receive that answer. I prayed because I know I'm supposed to pray And yet the Lord says here, if that's the condition that you're praying in, don't expect to receive anything of me. You see the importance of faith in prayer, the importance of expectation. We pray for revival. Do we really believe that God not just can, but will send revival to our hearts, to our homes, to our churches, to our communities, to our nation? Pastor mentioned it this morning. We started uh the morning service with the scripture. If my people Then will I hear from heaven? He said, You've got to pray, you've got to seek my face. Why would you do that if you didn't expect to receive something? There are those who ask with no expectation. There are those who go through life. They go through their Christian life. They come to church every Sunday, they read their Bible, they have their prayer list, and yet they have no expectation that God will work a miracle in their lives. Listen, I'm Baptist. I'm Baptist from the top of my head to the bottom of my foot. I had a friend, Brother Cobb, you know Brother Craig Cobb He was preaching in a big way one time. He said, I'm Baptist. He said, I'm the Baptist. I'm Baptist from the top of my foot to the bottom of my foot. I asked him afterwards, I said, so Brother Craig, you're this much Baptist. My, you're deep. But I'm Baptist, but I still believe in a miracle working God. You know, I'm looking out over this congregation, and if I'm looking at saved people, I believe I'm looking at a lot of saved people, then I'm looking at a lot of miracles. Salvation is a miracle. It's something you say, what's a miracle? It's something that God does and nobody else can do. And God 's the only one who can save your soul. Listen, God's the only one who can give us this book and preserve this book. He is a miracle-working God, and he still wants to work miracles in our lives. He said if you're not expecting it, you're not gonna get it. That's what he says here in James chapter one. There's no expectations. And then there's great expectations. You read in Matthew chapter 8. Let's turn there quickly. Look at Matthew chapter 8. Matthew chapter 8. I've got a long introduction and a short message, okay? But it's all Bible. Matthew chapter 8, and look here in verse number 5. Matthew chapter eight, verse number five, when Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there came unto him a centurion beseeching him And saying, and listen, that's where I think we're missing a lot of the we're not beseeching God. We're not desperate. Mentioned it this morning. We need to be desperate for God to do a work among us. Leonard Ravenhill, who was not a Baptist, by the way, but he was a man who saw God. This is what he said. Somebody asked him, Dr. Ravenhill, why doesn't America have revival? This is what he answered. He said America doesn't have revival because America is content to live without it. And I'm just going to distill that down to where revival really needs to happen, and that's the churches. The churches do not have revival because we are content to live without it. We're much like Laodicea. We're rich and increased with goods. We have need of nothing. We think we've got it all. Listen, God's from God's point of view, we're not rich, we're poor. We're not healthy, we're blind. We're not clothed, we're naked. And we need God, and Jesus is standing on the outside, knocking on the door. I stand at the door and knock. That is not a scripture to lost people. That's Christ speaking to the church. I'm standing at the door and I'm knocking. What is he doing on the outside of his own house? Why does he have to knock on his own house's door? Because we've learned how to do all of this without the Spirit of God, without the presence of God, and without Christ being Lord in our hearts and in our homes. And we need a revival. We need a revival. This centurion is beseeching the Lord. Verse number six, and saying, Lord, my servant lieth at home, sick of the palsy, grievously tormented. And Jesus saith unto him, I will come and heal him. This is Jesus' word on it. Let me see. Let me show you how serious this man was about the word of God. He has the Lord's word in verse number 7. Look at verse number 8. The centurion answered and said, Lord, I'm not worthy that thou shouldest come under my roof, but speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed. What he's saying? Your word is sufficient. Well, I like that, don't you? Lord Jesus, your word is sufficient. If your word has its proper place in our homes, that's all we need. And this is what he bases it on. Look at verse number nine. For I'm a man under authority Having soldiers under me, and I say to this man, go and he goeth, and to another come and he cometh, and to my sermon, do this, and he doeth it. When Jesus heard it, he marveled and said to them that followed, Verily I say unto you, I have not found so great faith. No, not in Israel. You know he's talking about a centurion, a Roman, or maybe some other Gentile heritage this man has And yet he has great faith, greater faith than even Christ's own people I've heard it said before, and I believe it's true. It takes greater faith to believe in evolution than creation. Look at verse number eleven. I say unto you that many shall come from the east and west and shall sit down with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. But the children of the kingdom shall be cast out into outer darkness, there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And Jesus said unto the centurion, Go thy way, and as thou hast believed, so be it done unto thee. And his servant was healed in the selfsame hour. You know, there's those from James chapter 1 that have no expectation. They're praying, but they don't expect to receive anything. But then on the other end of the spectrum, you've got this man, this centurion. He has great expectations. Amen? All you uh Dickens fans can appreciate this point. Great expectations. He expects to receive the healing for his servant that he needs because he has faith in the authority of Christ's word. You know what we have here? We have the Word of God. We have Christ who is the Word of God. And listen, with that name and that word, there is authority. There's authority. It's not our authority, it's his authority. It's his authority over our lives, over our problems. Over our needs? And this man just simply believed that Jesus would do what he said he would do. There's some great expectations. Now, in our text, this man here, in our text, he had some expectations. I don't think we'd call it no expectations, obviously, but I don't think we'd call it great expectations. He just had some. You see it again in our text. If you're back there in Luke or Acts chapter 3 and verse number 5, he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something. Of them. Now you know, we all ought to have great expectations. But the Lord sure is gracious to us. Even at times when we don't have great expectations, the Lord can still do great things. In this story as a prime example of that, this man expected to receive something. Now, when you look at the passage and you look at the story, it's very obvious what he's expecting. He's expecting silver or gold. Why is that? Well, because that is his means of living. He's lame, he cannot work for himself. Somebody brings him by every day and sets him there at the gate, and he spends his days asking for alms, for gifts of charity. That's all he can do. And so when people stop by, maybe and I'm sure he's got a well practiced eye by now. He's been lame since his mother's womb. He's never walked and so his whole life has just been begging from day to day. And he knows. Maybe he can maybe he can look from afar off and see if somebody's gonna be a good if they're a good prospect. to bring him some silver and gold. And here come Peter and John going to the temple at the hour of prayer. Good thing they went to church that day. They're coming by the hour of prayer. And they stop, they see him, and and they and Peter stops and he says, Look on us. And the Bible says that he looked on them. Expecting to receive something. He was expecting silver or gold. Now, I imagine his heart fell a little bit. With the first words that Simon Peter said to him, Silver and gold have I none. Maybe he thought, Yeah, I thought you looked like a preacher Silver and gold have I none. And his expectation, listen, maybe it went very low. But he expected something. Peter said, But such as I have, give up thee. You know what the Lord had? The Lord had something better for this man than even what he was expecting. You know, there have been times in my life I've come into the church house and I am expecting something, and maybe I'm expecting something over here of this nature, and God's got something far better for me. And I may be initially disappointed if that silver and gold doesn't come through But God's got something much of much greater value for me. Listen, the best blessings in our lives are not tangible or monetary. Or or possessions, they are what God does in the heart, they are spiritual gifts and spiritual blessings. The Lord can exceed our expectations. You know, I want to have great expectations for the meeting this week. But you know what I want to see? I want to see the Lord exceed even my expectations. And he is able to do so. Listen, now unto him that is able to do exceeding No, that means more than enough. Exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think. But some people are big thinkers. They got big vision. It doesn't matter how big your vision is, God can do more than that. Some folks, other folks, they're good askers. Amen? And we talked about that. Well, you need to ask of the Lord. You have not because you ask not. Let Him ask in faith. And so ask, ask with a big faith. But God could do even more than anything you could ask or think That's our God! That's how big he is! That's how powerful he is. We shortchange him when we listen, when we talk about And I understand I understand the the the day in which we live. I understand the church age in which we live, but I believe we shortchange the Lord when we talk about how bad the world is and how awful are the the the uh political landscape is and how nobody wants the truth anymore. Listen, our God is unchanged by this world. He is still great and greatly to be praised. He still says, Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. That's our God. This man, look what all he got here. Now you think he just got he just got healed. But he got a lot more than that. This when you got saved, you got healed. Amen. Of your sin sickness, but you got a whole lot more than that. Look what happens in this man's life. I'll go through this quickly, maybe Look what it says here. Look in verse number six. He's healed. Now look at verse number seven. And he took him by the right hand. I'm an everywhere Bible believer. I believe every word's in here for a purpose that God put it here and God preserved it here. It could have just said he took him by the hand. But it doesn't. It says he took him by the right hand. We understand the right hand in Scripture, it's a picture of fellowship. Look, when we got saved by the grace of God, not only did we get our ticket punch for heaven, but we got a brand new family of fellowship. Amen. I'm so glad I'm a part of the family of God. This man received a fellowship that he'd never known before. Though certainly this man had people that cared for him and loved him. Somebody brought him by every day and put him there at that gate. And they picked him up when they went home. So certainly he had people that cared for him. But listen, he didn't really know what a real family was until he got in the family of God. So how do you know that? Well, this much I know. God's the Father, and God is love. That means you you don't really know love unless you know God. Hey, can I say something today? And it's a little off topic, but not really. Love does not define God. God defines love. God is love, not love is God. Amen Now he's got a heavenly father that loves him. He's listen, he's not he's not a heavenly father that's going to drop him off uh at the beginning of the day and then at the end of the day pick him back up He's got a God now and a father that's going to be with him moment by moment, day by day. He's just a call away. Listen, that's our God. This man received a right hand of fellowship, and the Bible says he lifted him up. Look what it says there. He took him by his right hand and lifted him up He said, what are you preaching about tonight? I'm preaching about what God might be wanting to do for you this week. Maybe you need a revival of fellowship with the people of God. I'll tell you what a great a great sign to me when the church service ends if people stand around talking and fellowshipping. That's a good sign. You understand you need the fellowship of the church? Well, you know, I'm just I'm an introvert and all that stuff. I know. There's other introverts here. Y'all can get together and talk about how introverted you are Have a great time. Hey, we're supposed to bear one another's burdens. Within the fellowship, we can bear one another's burdens. But listen, if we say amen and there's a race for the back door and you're out of here and nobody sees you until the next church service, nobody hears from you until the next church service, you're missing out on so much fellowship You understood that the early church met every day? Oh, don't let the pastor hear that. Don't say that. We couldn't meet every day. You know what we can do with technology today? We can meet every day. Now it's not the same as meeting. Please understand this. But we can be in contact every day. We've got it easier than ever to fellowship with one another and to be invested in one another's lives. And yet it seems like the more connected we are technologically, the least connected we are personally and relationally. My my brethren, these things ought not so to be. Amen. So maybe you need a revival of fellowship. Maybe you need somebody to lift you up this week. He extended that right hand and he and he grabbed him by the right hand and he lifted him up. Now you understand this man never walked before, he never stood before. And yet, through the working of God's uh with uh Christ's name and the and God's people, now he's got a new fellowship and he's and he's lifted up. Maybe you're a little down. Maybe you've been watching too much news. And you're a little down. Maybe you need a faith lift. Amen? Hey, this is a good place to get it. Around God's people, hearing the Word of God each night. Notice what else happened here. He took him by the right hand, lifted him up, and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength. Strength. Strength. Thank God for strength that can be imparted to us by God, by God's word, by God's people. Maybe this week you need a revival of strength. You know what Paul prayed for the church at Ephesus? He prayed that they'd be strengthened in the inner man That's spiritual strength. You know, you say, why do I need spiritual strength? Because there's temptations all around us Because there's all types of things that the devil wants to do and to use to bring your faith down. You need strength. Get in a place where you can get the strength that you need. Notice what else he receives here. His feet and ankle bones receive strength. Verse number seven. Look at verse number eight. And he leaping up stood and walked. Well, he's listen, maybe your walk needs to be revived. Maybe you need to, maybe your walk with God needs to be revived. You need more time in the Scripture. You need a stronger emphasis on prayer and on fellowship with the Lord. You get in a place where the Word of God's preached, listen, that could go a long way in helping you in your walk with God. He received strength at a walk with God, and he's leaping. Amen. What's this a picture of? Joy. Maybe you need a revival of joy. You know, joy is not a choice. We see all these I mean if you go into Hobby Lobby, y'all got a Hobby Lobby around here? All the ladies know, all the men are clueless. What's a hobby lobby? You don't want to know. But they'll have in these hobby lobby stores stores. I've I've I've seen these because I've been drugging these places before. Choose joy. Anybody see that one? Doesn't that sound nice? That sounds great. Choose joy. You know what I realized? Joy is not a choice. Joy is a fruit. The fruit of the Spirit is love. Joy. How about this? Choose Jesus. Choose the walk in the Spirit, and you'll have joy. Amen? Joy is not manufactured by man. Joy is a fruit of the Spirit. And so there's joy he receives here. He's leaping. He's praising God. Hey, maybe you need a revival of praise. Amen. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. You say, I praise God in my heart. No, you don't. You can't praise God in your heart. Because prayer is uh praise is not a work of the heart. Worship It's a work of the heart. Praise, the Bible says, Hebrews 13, is the fruit of your lips. Giving thanks to his name, let the Lord know that you appreciate what He's done for you. Let the people know that you appreciate what the Lord has done for you, not just in the church house, but at the house house. Amen. And at the at the job house, and at the market house, let people know that you serve a great God. Don't be ashamed of the testimony of Jesus Christ. You know why it's strange to praise the Lord in public now? Because we stopped doing so many years ago as the people of God. Because it was peculiar. It's always been peculiar to praise the Lord. Amen Maybe you need a revival of praise. Notice that he stood. Maybe you need a revival of standing for truth. Maybe there's some things that you used to be strong on and you stood for. But as time goes on and maybe family members are don't hold to that same standard anymore, maybe you started to lose your stand. Got weakened by the wearing out that the devil tries to do of the of the foundations that we stand upon. Hey, let's get back to standing in the old paths I like the old time way. Amen. Maybe you need that. Why don't you come expecting to receive that? Now, let me leave you with a word here before we close on the need of patience, the importance of patience in connection to expectation. When we look at this story, we see a man who is lame from birth, from his mother's womb, even. He never had the strength to walk on his own. He'd been laid at this gate. Every day they'd bring him by here. I don't know how long, how many years they had chosen this specific place, but the verbiage of the story kind of lends us to believe. That this was the practice of his life. That he'd been brought here many, many times, many years, and this was just the daily routine that he was in. It's an obvious place to ask for alms Because people are going into the temple to worship, to give, and it was commanded in the Old Testament law to take care of the poor and the needy. And so it would make sense that this man would have been placed here from a small child, and every day be sitting there, laying there, waiting for people to come by and give alms. He said, Why is that important? Well, when I think about this, and I think about the the location of this man's uh position. Here he is, he's at the gate of the temple. That's where everybody has to go to get into the temple grounds. They have to walk right through the gate. They have to walk right past this man And I was thinking about the timing of this story. We mentioned already that this was the first apostolic miracle. This is Very soon after the Lord had ascended back to heaven, after the day of Pentecost. It's probably just a few months removed from Christ's crucifixion. And I got to thinking about that, and thinking about the fact that Jesus we know on at least three occasions. Probably four, and maybe many more times than that. Advent of the temple. Jesus had walked past this man several times You know, that does not fit our idea of how the story would go. It does not fit our idea of what we think Jesus would do. I realize that the Lord, listen, as I mentioned earlier, this miracle that was done after Christ was gone was very pivotal. It was very important. That the people see that Christ's power rested upon his apostles. And so that means Jesus had walked by this man on numerous occasions and did not heal him. Well I don't know if this is true or not, but I do know this part is true. Jesus had done many miracles in Israel, and some in Jerusalem. And most likely this man had heard of Jesus Most likely, this man had heard of the miracles. Maybe this man even knew some people who had been healed by Jesus. And yet, Jesus passed by on several occasions and did not heal this man. Say why would you mention this, preacher? Well, I believe that there's instruction for us here. The Lord does everything for a purpose, for a reason, and his timing is perfect. His timing is perfect. Maybe this man, maybe the first time he heard Jesus was coming to the temple. Maybe the first time he didn't know who he was. But certainly he would have heard who he was after Jesus went to the temple, at least after his probably, maybe when Jesus was a boy. Answer those questions. He caused quite a stir then. The next time that we read he went to the temple, he caused a stir that time too. Because he was flipping tables. And making whips. Amen. So certainly at some point this man knew who Jesus was. And maybe he expected Jesus to heal him. The next time Jesus came by, maybe his expectations were: maybe Jesus will heal me today, and he didn't do it. But you know what? I'm glad that this man, even though Jesus had walked past him many times without healing him, I'm glad this man still had a degree of expectation. Jesus knew every time he walked past, Jesus knew about this day. Jesus had this day planned out. Listen, Jesus knew how he would use this man's infirmity and his healing to glorify his own name and be a blessing to this man while doing so. So I want to sell tell us here tonight, maybe you've had an expectation, maybe there's a lost loved one. Maybe you got a child that's went astray, and maybe you prayed and prayed and you feel like God hasn't answered your prayer and you're about to give up. Listen, can I tell you, don't let go of your expectation of God in his time. I believe that he will work a miracle in your life. So, what should we do at this meeting that we're coming up to? Well, you look at this man, you know what he you know what he did? He was daily right there. Every day he was in that s in that place. You want to get the help from God this week? You know what I think would be a good plan? Just be here. Be here. Good thing you went to the temple that day. So get here daily, even if somebody's got to carry you. Amen. Well, I don't have a ride. Get somebody that does have a ride. Be in this place. Be expecting God to help you. Look for the help that God has for you. Ask for it. Expect it and receive God's help. Listen, receive God's help even if it's not the help you think you need. This man he he wanted silver and gold, but he needed so much more. And God gave him so much more And I believe, listen, I believe with all my heart, I believe that God's word is true. I believe God wants us to have victory. I believe that God wants us to to uh to live in in in love and joy and peace all the fruit of the spirit god wants all of that for all of us that doesn't mean your circumstance is going to improve Listen, are you hearing? That doesn't mean your circumstance is going to improve, but it does mean that the Lord wants to do something far more important, and that is draw you closer to Him. So you say, preacher, what what should I do? Be here? Be expecting God to do something? And God just may send something your way that you didn't even know was coming. You didn't even know you needed. I know the meeting that I got saved in. I went into that meeting thinking I was saved. I'll just be honest with you. I'm not saying you're not saved, but the Holy Spirit sure could tell you that There's been other times since I've been saved that I went into a meeting thinking everything was good. But the Lord revealed some things that I needed I needed his help on. I've gone into meetings thinking, Lord, I need this fixed. And he said, No, you need this fixed. But if you don't come expecting anything Let him ask in faith, nothing waver. He that waverth like the wave of the sea, let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. We're not asking, we're not expecting. The Lord said, if you'll ask and you'll expect, I'll do it. Let's stand together. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word this