I'm grateful the Lord is the one who's in charge. Uh we don't always understand why He does what He does. But we can rest assured he knows what he's doing. And so we thank him for that. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to the book of Romans in chapter number two. Romans chapter number two. And I'd like to read one verse in your hearing. We may read all of these in this portion, beginning in verse twelve to twenty-nine, but uh I want to especially highlight one verse here this morning, and that's verse number sixteen Romans chapter 2 and verse number 16. And when you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please, as we honor God's word. Romans chapter two and verse number sixteen says, In the day when God shall judge the secrets of men By Jesus Christ, according to my gospel. There is a day described here in Romans Talked about in other places in the Bible where men will face the Lord I want to talk about that this morning when we stand before Him. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the privilege that we have to pray this morning. We bow in your presence very consciously aware of our great need for thy help, Lord. Both the preacher and the hearer need help from above. And so, Lord, we ask thee in Jesus' name to come near and give us the help we need. Lord, I'm grateful the word says you're an ever-present help in time of need. And I thank you for the privilege that we have, Lord, to worship before you. We ask that you would give us ears to hear what the Spirit saith, and just have your will and your way in this gathering. And Lord, we'll give you the glory for all that you do, for we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. You can be seated and let me read the context of this passage starting in verse number twelve. And you follow along with me, please, if you would. The Bible says in verse number 12 of Romans 2, for as many as have sinned without the law shall also perish without the law. And as many as have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law. For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified. For when the Gentiles which have not the law do by nature the things contained in the law, these having not the law are a law unto themselves. Which showed the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another. Now the scripture here makes plain that there is a an accountability that we all have before the Lord. Those who know the law are accountable according to the law, and those who do not know the law are accountable according to the law that is written in their heart. That conscience that God has given man. Now, the scripture tells us that conscience can be seared, it can be perverted, but nevertheless, God wrote that law on man's heart. There's a sense of morality that every man has without knowing the moral law of God. And so all men are accountable. Everybody's accountable. You say, preacher, what about those who've never heard? They're accountable for what they the light they have received. And all have gotten an accountability written on their hearts by the moral code of God, that conscience that He's put on the inside. Now again, verse 16, in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel. Behold, thou art called a Jew, and restest in the law, and makest thy boast of God, and knowest his will, and approvest the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law. And art confident that thou thyself art a God of the blind, a light of them which are in darkness, an instructor of the foolish, and teacher of babes which has the former knowledge and of the truth in the law. Thou, therefore, which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself? Thou that preachest a man should not steal, dost thou steal? Thou that sayest a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? Thou that abhorst idols, dost thou commit sacrilege? Thou that makest thy boast of the law, through the breaking of the law, dishonorest thou God? For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles through you, as it is written. For circumcision verily profiteth if thou keep the law. But if thou be a breaker of the law, thy circumcision is made uncircumcision. Therefore, if the uncircumcision keep the righteousness of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be counted for circumcision? And shall not uncircumcision, which is by nature, if it fulfill the law, judge thee who by the letter in circumcision dost transgress the law? Let me stop there and say what Paul is addressing here. First, he addresses our relation to the law, and just to simplify that, I would say that we all are accountable. The very first verse of this chapter starts out, Thou therefore man art inexcusable. We're all accountable. We're all accountable to the Lord. People say, well, I don't believe that. Well, that doesn't change that, you know. I could believe that grass is purple, but it's still going to be green when it comes up in the spring. My belief does not change reality. And I may not believe that there is a God, and I may not believe that I'm accountable to God, but the declaration of truth is that every man is accountable. And then Paul he moves from my relation to the law, and in these verses I just read, he deals with religious hypocrisy. And so what man does when he recognizes that he's accountable to God, he goes about trying to make his own righteousness. In other words, man tries to appease God. He tries to amend. Isn't that what Adam and Eve did back yonder in the garden? When they realized that they had sinned, what did they do? They immediately set to sowing fig leaves And they said, we'll cover ourselves. And the reality is that religion is nothing more than modern day fig leaves that men still try to sew together. And we try to make our own righteousness. I'm gonna straighten up. I'm gonna be a religious person, and you put put the name in uh whatever you want to call it, you put whatever denomination or title you want to want to use, but it's it's all, if you can let me say it like this, it's all religious hypocrisy Religion has no power to change your heart. That's why Paul said to these Jews, he said, You preach a man shouldn't steal, but you steal. And you preach a man shouldn't be an idolater, but you're an idolater. In other words, you worship gods that are made by man's hands, and he says what you're doing is exposing the hypocrisy that's in your heart. By the way, Paul addressed the Jews so bluntly because that was the predominant religion of the people he was trying to reach. There's all kinds of do you know, this may shock you, but do you know they are Baptist hypocrites? Does that surprise you? There are Baptists, there are people that name the name of Baptist, but do not have the nature of Christ. Only listen, Jesus is the only one who can put a new heart inside of you The Baptist Church, the Methodist Church, the Presbyterian Church, it doesn't matter what church, it's not the power of the church to put a new nature in you or a new heart in you. It's the power of Jesus Christ. He puts new natures in us. And religious hypocrisy makes us go about establishing our own righteousness as if we have any, and forgetting that our righteousness is only in Jesus Christ. The Apostle Paul here talks about that circumcision and how they wore that sort of thing as a badge. And he said they're Gentiles, and Paul's talking about people who were not of the Jewish uh religion or or origin and that they had uh you know they they had gotten saved, these Gentile believers had gotten saved And they weren't doing what the Jews did and bearing those marks of the Jews. And he was saying, they have something that you don't have because it's not found in your religion. It's found in being rightly related to Jesus Christ. One of our brothers told me this last week. He said, I told someone that I hate religion. And I thought in my heart, Praise the Lord. Because I do too. Religion is the devil's counterfeit for salvation. Religion is what the devil wants all us he look, the devil wants all of us here to be religious. That's all he wants. He wants you to be religious. Well I go to church on Sunday. And I got me a little box here that I check off. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. And I I I do these things. I and what we're doing, beloved, is we're practicing religion. But what I need, religion can never provide. Religion cannot give me peace in my heart. Religion cannot put my sin away as far as the East is from the West. Religion cannot put peace where trouble once reigned. Religion cannot make me righteous before God. Religion cannot take the record that's on high. and eliminate it so totally that when God sees me, He doesn't see me as the wicked, vile sinner I am. He sees me in His Son, Jesus Christ. Religion can never do that. Baptist religion can't do it. I'm afraid today that we've counterfeited, we've allowed the devil to counterfeit real conversion by these uh mock things that we uh claim are so important, you know. I've told you about how when I was ministering somewhere, this person cornered me and said, What scripture did you claim when you got saved? And I said, Well, quite frankly, I didn't claim a specific scripture. And you could hear the gasp of horror in their voice. You did not claim a verse of scripture. Why, don't you know you're born again by the incorruptible seed of the Word of God? I said, I know that. You mean to tell me there's no one verse you laid hold of as your salvation verse? I said there were many verses Uh old preacher Whirley was kneeling beside me, and uh he was he was just quoting verses in my ear. He was saying, For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And he would every once in a while say, look unto Jesus, the author, the finisher of our faith. But there was no one verse that I laid hold of. And my dear friend, you know what that has become for those people? That has become an idol. Because they're saved by claiming a verse. I don't find that in the scripture. People say, well, I'm saved because I prayed the sinner's prayer. Can I ask this question? Which one? There's a whole lot of prayers prayed by sinners in the Bible. Some say, Lord, be merciful unto me. Some say, remember me. Some say , Who art thou, Lord? I mean, which sinner's prayer? Listen, friend, we've made an idol out of something that man has come up with And it's you're not saved simply because uh of your praying uh a prayer and calling it the sinner's prayer like some sort of magic uh mantra, you and I are saved by the marvelous grace of God. I'm saved by trusting in the Lord Jesus. I'm not saved because I pray. Now listen, Romans says, the Bible tells me In Romans chapter number ten, that with the heart man believeth unto righteousness. And so I I I believe this with all my heart. There are people who get saved, and they get saved that moment they believe. That's what the book says. And that individual may not have prayed a prayer. That individual may not said a word. That individual may just simply turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. And in that moment of turning, they were converted at that very moment. See, salvation is not a work of man. Don't let the devil counterfeit it. Don't let the devil confuse it. People say, I was sitting in a Sunday school class years ago. I had been asked to come be a part of this um church they were trying to start, Friendship Baptist Church. And we were working with the young people, and the Sunday school teacher got up and he said, I want to tell you all how I got saved. And he started to tell his testimony. And I'm not throwing rocks at being critical. I'm wanting you to see that the devil is a master counterfeiter. And he stood and he said, Well, it was snowing one day, and uh I went out and and I dropped my keys in the snow. And he said, as I was walking around trying to find my keys, I got this strange warm feeling in my right side. Now I'm sitting there, I'm just a boy, you know, and I'm sitting there trying to figure how this has got to do with salvation. I'm thinking maybe a neighbor comes along and and uh helps him find his keys and tells him about the Lord and he gets saved. But he goes on and he says, you know, that warm feeling in my side got stronger, and it went right up my right arm. And he said, just like that, my arm stuck out. Now I'm thinking, you need a doctor, sir. If my arm starts acting independently of my body, I'm going to be worried about that thing. And he said, I looked down my arm, and at the end of my arm were my keys. He said that warm feeling the minute I picked up those keys turned into like an electrical shock and I felt so good all over. And he said, now I know I'm a Christian and I'm going to heaven. And I said, what? If Miss Elizabeth were here today, she'd tell you. I turned to her and I said, what? I mean, I was so shocked by that. I'm thinking, okay, where's Jesus? Where's salvation? Where's trusting in the Lord? And I'm talking about in an independent, fundamental, missionary-minded, uh, Bible-believing Baptist church, the adult Sunday school teacher said that he saved because he had this warm feeling. And I'm thinking, sir, you might have had a stroke or something like that. You need to go see the doctor But my point is this anything that takes the place of the crucified, buried Risen, Lord Jesus Christ for salvation is the devil's counterfeit. It may be tears, it might be Your repentance, you may feel like you mourned enough. It may be your prayer, it may be some experience, but my precious friend, none of that will prepare you to stand before God in that last day. The only thing that saves the man's soul is faith alone in Christ alone, who is the Savior of man's soul. That's the only thing. And the Bible says these religious hypocrites proved by their empty lives that what they had was not real. Now look at verse 28 and 9. For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh. But he is a Jew, which is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God. I want you to notice the reality that he emphasizes at the close of this chapter. And the reality is this: outward religion is empty. That's all it is. Yeah, but preacher, I you know, I do all the See, there's two kinds of of uh of what's called salvation. There's a do salvation, which is no salvation at all. And there's a done salvation which is found in Jesus Christ. There is, there is, look, if you're going to heaven today, you're going to heaven on the merits of another. Not your own. You and I who are saved, if you're saved by the grace of God, here's your testimony. Jesus saved me. Don't we stand and sing that sometimes? Jesus saves, Jesus saves. Years ago when my pastor first got saved, he got so excited about telling everybody he started painting these little signs that say Jesus saves. And all over it, and do you know something to this day, there are places too I know of for sure, that you can still find those tacked up on an old tree on the side of the road. He told the story one time. Actually the man uh was part of the police department in our town. He had a wreck one night, and when he wrecked He said a tree, that tree, he hit the tree and it fell on his car, and come through that window was a great big sign, fell in his lap, said Jesus saves. You know what that man did? He said, I bowed my head in that wrecked patrol car and I said, Lord, I get the message. And he asked the Lord to save him. And he was a productive member of our church for a long time. And that had been some twenty years previous when Brother Ralph had nailed them old signs up all over the mountain saying Jesus saves. We don't run around here saying prayer saves, Baptist saves, Crying saves, all that. Here's what we say, Jesus saves. Jesus saves. He's our hope and he's the answer, beloved. Thank God for this, but notice that outward religion, it's empty. He said very clearly, he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly. You can do all the things you believe you should do, but if Christ has not done something in you, it means nothing. You can do all the things that is expected of you. You can go through all the jump through all the hoops that you believe you ought to jump through. And none of that is salvation. And then notice he talks about that he is a Jew, which is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter. So, what is salvation? Salvation is a work of God in the heart. I'm getting to, I'm just trying to get my introduction across to you, I'm getting to that day when we'll face the Lord And in that day when we face the Lord, your Sunday school pen is not gonna cut it. I guess they don't give Sunday school pens no more, but when they used to give Sunday school pens Your attendance record, your Bible reading, your devotional time, your membership, your baptismal certificate, none of those things are going to be acceptable in the sight of the Lord. He said there's got to be something done inward. Paul reminded the Corinthians that if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. What's happened? God did something on the inside. When you got saved, God started a process of working on the inside out. Your religion don't start out, it starts in. Salvation is the work of God inside of a man's heart, whereby he begins to make him what he's supposed to be, and he births us into the kingdom. And and that's why, beloved, listen, when you get saved, you get a spiritual appetite. I don't know if your constitution is like mine, but I know when I'm sick because I'm not hungry. And I know when I'm well, because I'm hungry. And I know I can tell listen by by what's going on in my body, because if I'm doing all right, I'm hungry all the time. And if I've got something going on, I'm not hungry at all. And so there's an appetite inside of you that speaks of help. And listen, the Bible says, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word, when you get saved, you've got something in you that wants the Word, you want the truth, you want the person of Christ. You've got a desire that God has put inside of you. He's planted a desire in you. Years ago, I had an evangelist stand up. And he started the first meeting on Sunday morning like this. He said, you know something, church? I drink all the liquor I want to. And I'll be honest, as a young pastor, my heart hit my feet. And I thought, who I didn't know him that well. He and I was real worried about who I'd just called to preach to my people. And then he said I'd run with all the women I want to, and I thought, Lord And so I'm looking around and I'm looking for some deacons that'll just take him right out of the pulpit and drag him out in the parking lot and leave him. And then that that dear, dear man said, Church. God changed my want-to. He put a new want-to in me when I got saved. He gave me new desires. I'm saying to you, dear friend, if you're saved, God puts some new desires in you. He put a new heart in you. He put something on the inside. He is a Jew, which is one inwardly. And circumcision is that of the heart. In the Spirit and not in the letter. In other words, the transformation is something God is working on the inside, not something that we are working on the outside. And then look at this, whose praise is not of men, but of God. You see, the believer has a single eye to please one. Now that takes me back to my text because the Bible says, in that day, in that the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel. On that day, in that day, every one of us will not face man, we will face God. I've often fancied in my imagination that when we stand before the Lord, there's going to be a great big screen, and everything I've done is going to be played on that screen. But I don't believe that's the issue. I don't believe that's what the Bible says. I believe what the Bible clearly says is that there's going to be a facing, not of men, because it doesn't matter what men think. Our praise is not of men, our praise is of God. We're not looking to please men. It does not matter what men's opinion of you or I are. It does not matter what men's thoughts are. What matters is what does God see and know. The opinion that I should be concerned about, the thought that I should be concerned about, is that what does God see and what does God know? A friend of mine was fishing with some fellas and one of them had a filthy mouth. And when he found out the fellow was a preacher, he he apologized a time or two, but he couldn't help it. He just kept slipping, cursing while they're fishing. And finally, he said, Preacher, I'm so sorry. He said, I'm not the one you've got to worry about. He said, There's somebody else who's listening that you need to be a lot more concerned about than me. The reality is that we all will face him. Notice what he says in that day. There is a set time. In the day, there's a set time. If you study your Bible appropriately, you'll come to two conclusions that there are two separate days that two groups of individuals will face God. The first group of individuals are those who are saved, and they'll face God at the judgment seat of Christ. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 3 13 that in that day our works will be made manifest by fire. He will try every man's work by what sort it is. So in that day, there's a day now you're saved, you say I'm saved. If you're a Christian, you've trusted Christ, you've been born again You have that new nature, that new desire. Here's what the truth is. The truth is, you will give an account of the Lord. You will face the Lord Not for sin, you say, hold on a minute, what happened to my sin? My sin was put under the blood of the cross. My sin has been forever erased. In fact, the psalmist said it's in the sea of God's forgetfulness, and it'll never be remembered against me again. That's the power of salvation and the forgiveness of God in the blood of Jesus But my life lived for Christ will be examined. And I'll stand before him. You'll stand before him The Bible says our lives will be divided in two piles, wood, hay, and stubble, gold, silver, and precious stone. There's going to be those things that are durable and those things that are temporal, those things that are eternal, those things that are of time. And God's going to try it by fire. And listen, there's going to be an examination. Our lives are going to be under the microscope of God. Doesn't matter what men think there. It doesn't matter what men say there. There's no votes going to be taken by the majority. Only God is going to be the concern at that moment. We'll stand before him. Now, my dear friend, if you're listening and you're lost and not saved, you too will stand before the Lord. The Bible says in Revelation chapter 20 that he saw a great white throne. And that great white throne is going to be the place where every lost soul is going to stand and face God. And their works are going to be examined out of the books, and the Bible says, Whosoever was not found written in the book of life shall be cast in the lake of fire forever. There's going to be an examination. Everybody who doesn't know the Lord is going to stand there on that day. There are going to be atheists who stand there who then will know that there is a God. There will be agnostics who stand there who have said somewhat intellectually, either honestly or dishonestly, that you cannot know there is a God, and they're going to stand there and know there is a God. There are those that were rebels and hated God and fought God, and they likewise will stand there and have no word of excuse. simply facing God on that day, lost and without God, without Christ, lost. And standing there on that day There's going to be an account given. And that individual is going to hear these horrible words that Jesus spoke back yonder on his i in the New Testament in his ministry while on earth. And he will say, Depart from me, for I never knew you. That's coming. You don't understand that? The reality is that spent time is somewhere in the future that God and God alone knows. He said it, there's coming a day when every Christian will face the Lord. There's coming a day when every lost man will face the Lord. So it stands to reason with that being true that we be serious about being rightly related to the Lord. Notice with me, secondly, not only is there a set time, but notice the Bible says the secrets will be exposed. In the day when God shall judge the secrets of men. God shall judge the secrets of men. Those things that nobody knows but God. And by the way, God knows it all right well. The Bible says he knows the thoughts and the intents of our heart. He knows our thoughts. The psalmist said that he knows our thoughts afar off. That means he knows what I'm going to think before thinking. Now we know a little something of that, don't we? How many of you have been married 30 years or more? Would you raise your hand? Come on, hold it up high and proud. 30 years you've been married, all right? Don't you sometimes know what your spouse is thinking? Or let me say it like this: at least you think you know what they're thinking. And maybe 50-50 you're right. I don't know. Maybe you're better than that. I don't know. I'm down somewhere about 10. 1090 But nevertheless, you think you know what they're thinking. You've been around them, you're you're aware of their their patterns and all that. You know, you know something about them. Surely you know them and and you know something about them. But listen, God knows God knows your thought before it ever gets in your little head. That's how much he knows about us. And the Bible says, in the day when the secrets of men shall be judged. Don't you worry about things being done. You know, I used to worry me to death, somebody talking behind your back and doing this, that, and the other. That don't bother me as much as it once did. You know why? Because there's coming a day when the secrets will be exposed. There's coming a day God's going to take care of all that. He's going to set it all in order. And what is he going to expose? Well, at the judgment seat where Christians go, our motives will be tried. Why did I do what I did? What is it that motivated me? Why am I doing it? Am I doing it for the Lord? Am I doing it for me? Is there some other reason behind it? My motives will be judged. He will try, the verse, 1 Corinthians 3. 13 says, he will try what sort it is What caliber it is, what quality it is, what kind it is. Listen, dear church family, you and I who are saved, you need to understand something. God is interested in the why behind the what And he's as much interested though in the why as he is the what, because the why will judge what the what becomes So we see we'll have our motives exposed. And then I believe at that great white throne where the lost will stand, the secret exposed there, will be the sin of rejecting Jesus Christ. Because you see, there's going to be people stand there who will say what Jesus said, they will say, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? Have we not done many, mighty works? In other words, there's going to be people there who were religious but lost, who had a form of godliness but denied the power. who who had a a an appearance of being a Christian, but they were not saved. Years ago I remember praying in a in a tent meeting and there was a dear old lady who came forward and she was praying and weeping and I remember my pastor walked over and was praying with her and in a few minutes he said, I want you to tell this congregation what you just told me And that dear lady was up in her 80s, and she had been a Sunday school teacher. She had led the Women's Missionary Union. She had been so deeply involved. And here's what she said. These were her words. She said, Yet I was not a Christian. She said, as a teenage girl, I went with a group of girls to the altar, and some of them asked the Lord to save them, but I went so as not to be left out. And she said, I prayed like them and I did everything. And the pastor came by and shook everybody's hand and said, I'm glad you're saved. We'll have baptism tonight. And they all got baptized, and she said, I was too proud to say, wait a minute, I didn't pray and ask the Lord to save me. I just came to follow my friends. And she said, as time went on, people thought it was so wonderful that I was saved, and they just kept patting me on the back. And she said, all of that just inflated my pride. She said, then I become a Sunday school teacher, and the story went on, and she said, I just could not. Face the reality. And sitting there in that tent meeting, in a chair on the front row where she had been all those meetings, that meeting went on for about 15 weeks Night after night, she sat right there, and near the close of that meeting, she said, the Holy Spirit knocked on my heart's door and said, You're not saved. And she said, rather than take my pride and go to hell, I said, Lord, if you'll save me, I'll ask you to do it. I'm here to tell you, dear friend, that you and I've got to understand something, that it's not the sin of drinking, or the sin of smoking, or the sin of running around, all of these things that take a man to hell. It's rejecting Jesus Christ. When you say no to Jesus Christ, you're saying no to the only way of salvation, the only hope of being born again. He is the way and the truth and the life. So the secret exposed at the judgment seat or the great white throne will be that sin of rejecting Jesus Christ. Now who will be faced there? Notice what it says in the text. By Jesus Christ. You might want to write this verse down. John 5. 22 says he's committed all, the Father committed all judgment to the Son. So who are we going to face? We're going to face Jesus Christ. We're going to face the man who hung on Calvary with nails through his hands and feet. We're going to face the one with the thorns that were put on his brow. We're going to face the one who said, It is finished. And he dismissed his spirit and gave up the ghost. You're going to face the one, and I'm going to face the one that says, I am he that was dead, but behold I'm alive forevermore. And I have the keys of death and of hell. That's who we're going to face, Jesus Christ. And beloved, can I remind you today that you'll face him in one of two ways? You'll face a friend or you'll face a foe. And what you do with him in this life determines how you'll face him there. You'll face him as a friend if you've received him. As many as received him, to them gave him power to become the sons of God. Even to them that believe on his name. Listen, when you receive him, here's what happens: he becomes your advocate. 1 John 2, 1 says, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He's your friend. And friend, when you face him on that day, you'll not face him as an angry foe. You'll face him as a friend who shed his blood to save you. When you stand before him and see those nail-scarred hands, you'll know those are the hands that bled for you. You will know those are the hands that reached down and saved you out of the pit of sin. When you face him, you'll face him as the one who loved you and gave himself for you. Oh, dear friend, what a thing it'll be to face him as a friend. But far more terrifying. And yet, just as real is that if you're not saved, you'll face him as a foe. The lamb is also a lion. The Lamb of God, behold, the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world is also the Lion of the tribe of Judah. You will face him as a foe, a foe that will cry, depart from me, and will have all power in heaven and earth invested in him to eternally dispose of your soul. It's a sobering thing. Care not what men say and care not what religion says. Only care what Jesus Christ says. I'd rather be out of source with the whole world and be right with him. Than to be out of source with him and be right with the whole world. Many will face him that day as a foe. Many will see him sitting there as the judge. And then let me say one last word. There's a standard raised in the text. It says, according to my gospel. The one thing that prepares men for that day is the gospel of Jesus Christ. The one thing that will make all the difference in the world is for you to know, believe, embrace the gospel of Jesus Christ. To know that it was Christ who died for your sin and was buried and rose again the third day, to recognize that that cross strips you of all boasting. And strips you of all righteousness and leaves you helpless and hopeless except God comes by and makes you live. That cross that slays, the Bible says it's a killer The cross that kills all pride and kills all self-righteousness and kills all of that stuff that says, I'm okay, I'm alright. No, it takes all of that away and it makes you lay there and say, Lord, have mercy on me. And to know that it takes the power of God to save your soul and to recognize it's a supernatural work of the Lord. I'm talking about the saving gospel of Jesus Christ. I'm looking over this congregation. I know men and women who have believed on the Lord Jesus Christ and He saved your soul He's changed your eternity. He's made all things brand new. You sure ain't what you ought to be, but you're not what you used to be, just like I am too. But thank God it's Jesus who did it all. It's Jesus you give the glory to. It's Jesus that you're counting on. You know there's no other hope. There's no other help than him. But there may be some who have not. And there may be those who have never put their faith in the Lord Jesus. They bought the devil's counterfeit. They have taken something that looked like the real thing. They thought it was the real thing, but time and life has proved it's not, and the scriptures expose it, and the Holy Ghost emphasizes it and says this is not real. It's not salvation. It's not what God does. It's something you did. It's something religion has done. It's something you're counting on. Years ago when I first started pastoring, I was talking to a person as they came by and I just briefly made the statement, Isn't it good to be saved? And the person said to me, Well, I hope so. And they're a member of the church and had position, and I said, Excuse me. They said, Oh, I hope I'm a Christian. You know, you can here's what they said, you can never be sure about those things. And I thought, Brother Charlie, that isn't what my Bible says. My Bible says these things have I written unto you. This Bible tells me I know I'm saved. And it's not the boasting of man. It's simply trusting in the mercies of God. It's the recognition that he'll keep his word. He'll keep his word when everything else will fall apart. He said, Whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. My friend, when you put your faith in Jesus, you're trusting a mighty reliable source. Oh, it's more than hope so. It's more than think so. It's more maybe so. It's no-so. And it's not an arrogant no-so, it's a confident no-so because the scriptures are true and Jesus alone saves. If I could ask you one question as we close this meeting, thinking about that day when we'll face the Lord, what or who are you trusting in? I heard this hymn a long time ago. I hadn't heard it for some time, and we opened it in our hymn book and we began to sing, and it has become my favorite hymn: My Faith has found a resting place. Not in device nor creed. I trust the ever-living one, that's Jesus, whose wounds for me shall plead. I need no other confidence. I need no other plea. It is enough that Jesus died and that he died for me. Is it enough for you? Have you come to the realization that He alone is your sole salvation? When you face Him, that's all that's going to matter. Let's just be real here. That's all that's going to matter. It's not going to matter the car you drove to church in. It's not going to matter the house you'll go back home to and live in. It doesn't matter the job title you hold or the position. It doesn't matter what people around here say or think or know about you. It's only going to matter have you trusted the Lord Jesus? Are you trusting him and him alone? And beloved, if you are, what a grand thing to be a Christian. Glory be to the God of heaven who would reach down and save somebody like you and me. Because I'm looking at a bunch of nobodies and you're looking at a great big nobody and I'm here to tell you Jesus Christ, who's everybody died for our sin, who's somebody who shed his blood, and that he would take notice of the likes of us is a wonder of wonders. Thank God for the grace of God that brings salvation that hath appeared to all men. Teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present evil world. Have you tasted the grace of God? You ever watch somebody eat something and enjoy it? I can tell it's on my sweet wife because she's not here. She loves ice cream. I mean not just like it, she loves it. Like You know, if it's me or ice cream, I'm pretty sure ice cream's winning, right? And I know she loves me, but I'm pretty sure ice cream's at the top And while she was in the hospital this week, somebody brought her some and she's eating it, and I'm thinking, if if you had a picture of enjoyment That right there is it. Man, she was enjoying it. I don't think she understood or realized how much she was enjoying it. You know, I was just waiting for a mmm, you know. She was It was an experience. I don't know what, but I'll tell you what it did for me. I said to her, you got any more of that? And here's what she did. Oh, nope. All gone. I don't know if it's as good as she put on like it was. I'm going to tell you something. You can taste and see that the Lord is good. You don't have to take my word for it. You trust him today. You come in, there's brothers and sisters sitting here, they'll tell you he is the answer. They look for it else, they look for answers everywhere else, and did all sorts of things, and they realize that Jesus Christ is the answer And I pray you can as well. Would you stand with me please, Brother