Our world would be a better place if more homes had Bibles in them. May the Lord help us in these days. I'm glad. Even in the chaos of these times, we have the assurance of truth in the Word of God. I want you to open your Bibles this evening to Judges chapter number eight. Judges chapter number eight Now I'm going to read one verse in your hearing. That is verse number four, Judges chapter 8 and verse number 4. I'm thankful to know tonight that every word of God is important. Every word. The way in which this Bible is written is not on accident. It's ordered by the Lord. And I'm thankful for the for the Word of God. And I want you to see something that's noted here. And by the way, nothing in the Bible is noted again by accident. Everything in the Bible is there on purpose And I want you to see a phrase that I pray will help us here this evening. Would you stand with me, please, as we read one verse now, Judges chapter number eight. Judges chapter number eight and verse number four. And Gideon came to Jordan and passed over. He and the three hundred men that were with him, faint, yet pursuing them. I want those four words to just get settled in your heart this evening. Faint, yet pursuing them. The Lord helping me, I want to preach on how to pursue even though you're faint. How to pursue even though you're faint. Brother Andy, would you lead us in prayer? Ask the Lord to help us, please. Father, thank you, Lord, that we've come to this time that uh Lord, we have your word open before us. And we're grateful, Father, that uh we can read words, but Except you enable us, Lord, we'll not receive from your word what you have for us. Without you we can do nothing. So we ask you just to minister to us now. We ask you to speak very clearly to us through our pastor, Lord. Direct his thoughts, his speech, Lord, Heavenly Father, and Lord, may may we hear indeed your word tonight for our good Lord, that Christ be glorified the more in our lives, that his kingdom be fur furthered, the more for us having been here. Uh all this we ask, Heavenly Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You be seated. Thank you. Now, just a little of backstory here. You know the account. If you've read this passage, you know something about Gideon. Gideon was that reluctant soldier. Who uh the Lord said that he was a mighty man and I kind of get the feeling that Gideon was sort of looking over his shoulder and saying, Who are you talking about, Lord? But he called him that mighty man of valor. And that's what God made Gideon eventually after he surrendered and went on and did what the Lord wanted him to do. But Gideon and his 300 men, and you remember the Bible says there were some 10,000 that showed up for service. 10,000 showed up for service. Now, in light of their enemy, it was still just a small number. But of that 10,000, God said, Gideon, you've got too many. And I don't know about you, but if I was facing an innumerable host of enemy, and God said you've got 10,000, but that's too many, I would think the Lord's math was off. But the Lord's math is never off. Now his math doesn't always add up to our math, but his math is never off. And so he said, Get in, you've got too many. And you know the account. They go down to the river Those 300 men who lapped, he said, those are your men. You take those 300 men, and here's what I want you to do. Get the picture. and put the candle on the inside and get your swords ready and and at the appointed time I'll tell you, you blow the trumpet, the sword of the Lord in Gideon, smash those Smash those pictures and that light will shine through. And then you do battle with those Midianites. And you know the story. God gave them a great victory. We find out here in our text, down on in verse number 10, that they killed 120,000 Midianites that day. Now stop and think about that a minute. Three hundred men Killed a hundred and twenty thousand Midianites in one day. Do you realize if that was evenly proportioned, that's four hundred men apiece? Four hundred men apiece they engaged and conquered. Four hundred men apiece. Now, I'd think forty would be a handful. But you think about 400 men. Those are little small little army units that they were up against. Each man, each man. had to deal with that many. A hundred and twenty thousand Midianites were slain in that day. But God records something God records the reality here in verse number four that when they came to the Jordan and passed over Now they're leaving out of what is known as Canaan or the Promised Land, and they're going back eastward back towards the wilderness way, and they're going back in that direction. And as they go, the Bible says that they were faint. Yet pursuing them. Now that word faint means that they were weary. Listen to what one writer said. He said, to be faint in this fashion. Was to be worn out from a journey while at the same time being thirsty. It was a dual condition. These men had been fighting, and I mean you can only imagine the energy that's exerted in something like that. This wasn't remote combat. This was hand-to-hand. They were face to face and sword to sword, and man, there was there was real blood, sweat, and tears left on that battlefield. And now these men are pursuing that we're told, what is it, there are 15,000 that they're chasing now. And uh they're they're chasing them, the two uh kings, Zeba and Zalmuna, they were the kings of the Midianites. They fled with 15,000 men. Gideon was going to make sure that the Midianites would never bother them again. And so he's pursuing them, but they're faint. They're wore out. Not only are they wore out, but they're thirsty from the perspiration and from the exertion and Yet they're still pursuing. Now, I want you to know that God didn't put that there for you to feel sorry for them God put that there so you'd learn something from them. He recorded for us that. Now, by the way, they never say anything about it. These men and and Gideon, they don't they they don't say uh you know we're wore out. They're not sitting around moaning and complaining. They're not talking about how tired they are and how worn out. Have you ever noticed that the more you talk about being tired, the more tired you are I'm understanding something. My uh one of our Bible college teachers, uh Brother Jim Whitted, he was a missionary in Scotland, but he was a Marine first and foremost. And he would often lecture us about we'd come to school, and you know, we went to a night school, so we went to school from 6 until 10 or 10 30 at night. And all of us had full-time jobs and Oftentimes, like myself, uh many of us would get cleaned up there in the school. Uh we would shower over at the gymnasium. Uh I'd eat my lunch out of my little box if it made it that long. Most of my stuff never made it that long. I'd work on it all day and then get hungry and say, well, where did it all go? You know? But uh only had me to blame. And anyhow, we'd eat real quick, get our shower get over to the school, sit there from six o'clock till ten thirty, and then jump in the car and go home, do homework till about midnight and then At that time I was working uh still some on the farm and so milking again at 2. 30 and that was our schedule. And boy, sometimes uh I don't care how young you are, you still can get tired. And he would get up there and some of us would be bellyaching about how tired we were, and he would say, Boys, stop. Just stop. You know, he wasn't about about that big, but he was full of fire. And he would say, I want every one of you to stop this talking about being tired. The more you talk about being tired, the more tired you are. Talk about how energetic you are, how refreshed. You know, and he had lied into us and he he was he was part preacher, part drill instructor uh all through school, and I thank God for his blessed memory. But you know something? These men weren't talking about their faintness. They weren't talking. God did this. God said this. God recognized they were faint. The Spirit of God said, I want you to write this down because I recognize that these men, though they are faint, they're still pursuing. Don't you know something? There's a God in heaven who knows right where you're at tonight. I love that text in Psalms where David wrote. He remembereth our frame, that we are but dust. God knows when you're weary God knows the condition that you're in tonight. And here these men were faint, yet they were still pursuing. You know, there's a lot of talk about faintness. We had the opportunity to attend this week the Leadership Summit for a ACE up in Allentown, and I got to talk to a few people, met some folks from Maine and Another from that area and some other pastors, and got to speak to them. And you know what? There was one note that was present in every conversation. And I'm tired. School administrators were tired. Principals are tired. Pastors are tired. Truth be told, God's people are tired. I don't know about you, but getting an extra hour of sleep didn't do one thing for me. I don't know where it went or what good it did. It just didn't seem to add anything to me. And these early dark nights seem to take more away from me than they do add, but that being what it is They're faint. No wonder the admonition of the New Testament is: let us not grow weary in well-doing. You know why? Because it's awful easy to get weary and well doing. It's awful easy to get faint. But I want you to notice something. Here's a noble truth. And that noble truth is: even though you're weary and even though you're faint, you don't have to stop pursuing. You can keep going forward. You can continue to follow the Lord. Oh, faint indeed. Yes. Weary. Yes. Perhaps exhausted and tired, yes, and wondering how you're going to put one foot in front of the other. But my friend, I'm glad that we can still pursue. Here's three hundred and one men who are faint And yet pursuing. How'd they do that? I believe it's here in the text, and I believe it'll help us tonight. If you're making notes, I want you to note number one, you've got to conquer your feelings. You've got to conquer your feelings. You know the word faint has to do with a physical condition that produces an emotional state. It was a physical condition they were in. They had exerted themselves. They had fought. The adrenaline had been surging through their bodies as they had clashed sword with sword. And they're physically drained And it affected them emotionally. How many know that you are not the same person when you're exhausted? On so many levels. Every part of you is affected when you're tired. When you're physically worn down. And by the way, if I understand anything about the enemy, the Bible teaches me that he's a master at relentless battle. In fact, Daniel said he'll attempt to wear out the saints. That's what he'll do. And you know what that means? That means just stay at them until he knocks them out. He is relentless at at pursuing and babbling the people of God. And therefore weariness will be something You and I've got to encounter, and it's weirdness we'll have to deal with, but one of the things we've got to do is to conquer our feelings. You say, preacher, how do you do that? Well, here's how we do that. We rule our feelings by our faith. See, we live in such an emotionally driven society that sadly our feelings rule our faith rather than faith ruling our feelings. And if you let your feelings rule your faith, your faith will be weak indeed. How many times do we see in the Word of God the admonition to trust in the Lord when all of the circumstances say, Don't do it, don't do it? Your feelings, by the way, your feelings are the most shallow part of your person. Did you know that? They're also the most fickle. They change so quickly. I don't know about you, but I felt strongly about things before and found out I was wrong You ever felt like when you did something right and you just walked away from it with your head hung down thinking, what good did that do? I did the right thing, I know it was the right thing, but it just feels like it just come backfired in my face. Perhaps you've given a witness and you felt like it was a flop. I certainly have stood in this pulpit and delivered messages and felt like My goodness, that was absolutely of no value whatsoever, only to be contacted later and say, that helped me in a specific way. And what I'm saying is that my feelings and your feelings have to be conquered if we're going to pursue, even though we're faint. By the way, if you do anything for God, you better not run on feelings because your feelings will run out on you. There'll come a time where you just don't feel like how many of you always feel like reading your Bible? Would you raise your hand? You always feel like reading your Bible. How many of you always feel like bowing down in prayer? How many of you feel like coming to church? Amen. I don't know about that. There are times, my friend, let's be honest. My feelings say, not nah you don't need to do that right now. There are times those feelings kick in and you say, Man, ten more minutes of of just hit that snooze button and and I'll read I'll catch up on my Bible reading somewhere else. Huh? Those are feelings. These men had strong feelings. They were exhausted. And don't you know their bodies felt this? And their minds felt this. And they were feeling the exhaustion. And yet, praise the Lord, they had enough sense to conquer their feelings and stay in the battle for God. I'm saying tonight that if you're going to be faint and yet pursuing, you've got to conquer your feelings. Number two, you need to remember the brethren. Remember the brethren. Do you notice what the Spirit of God does in verse 4? He says, Gideon, look at it, came to Jordan and passed over. He, that's Gideon. He's emphasizing that. And the three hundred men that were with him. Faint yet pursuing them. Do you realize that Gideon was not alone? And nor were those men alone. They were all in the same boat. They had all fought the same battle. They had all engaged the same enemy. They were all entangled in the same warfare. Listen, the devil's a master at isolating you and making you think that you're the only one. He's a master, pardon me, he's a master at making you think that you're the only one going through what you're going through. Oh listen, he's a master at coming along and nursing those feelings of isolation and making you feel like, well, I I tell you, nobody's nobody's suffering like I'm suffering. Nobody's struggling like I'm struggling. Nobody's battling what I'm battling. Nobody's going through it like I'm going through it. Who's that sound like? That sounds like Elijah to me. When Elijah said, Lord, I'm the only one left. Lord, I'm the only one around here that believes anything anymore. Nobody else believes the Bible. I know I go to a church where they claim to believe the Bible, but I'm sure I'm the only one that believes it. I'm the only one that stands. I'm the only one that's suffering. I'm the only one that the devil's aggravating, but can I remind you of what first Peter five says in verse number nine, that these afflictions are accomplished in your brethren who are in the world He's talking about the devil in verse 8, 1 Peter 5. 8, the roaring lion, walking about, seeking whom he may devour, and he's reminding them that hey you need to know something. Your brethren are fighting the same battle. Your brethren are up against the same enemy. Your brethren are in the same warfare. Know this. You are not alone There are brethren who are fighting just like you. There are brethren who are faint just like you. But there are brethren that are pursuing and just fall in line and follow them and don't quit and give up. Because listen, if God can keep them going, He can keep you going. Because He's faithful. Know this. Remember your brethren. You're not alone in this battle. Listen, every Christian's fighting something. I know three things we're fighting on some level. We fight the flesh. We all have it. Everybody in here, I don't know this is anyone that believes this, but if you believe in the eradication of the old man, then I would urge you to study your Bible and yourself. Because both contradict that thought. You know as well as I do the old man's as much alive as he's ever been. But thank God for the new man who overcomes the old man. But the reality is the old man's still there. And we're all fighting the flesh. Every day you get up, you gotta fight the flesh. We all had that stuff that we've got to deal with, the flesh. Then we're all fighting the world. And we're talking about a system that's godless in nature, a system that is contrary to the will and ways of God. A system that stands against all that's true and right. And we're fighting that. We're against that. Someone said to me recently, I feel like I'm always going upstream. I said, good, you're going in the right direction. Because everything dead floats downstream. Keep going upstream. Keep going against the flow. Stand up, stand out, stand for Christ. Fight the good fight of faith. But know this, your brethren are your brethren are fighting this same fight. And then we're fighting the devil. The enemy is very real and active. And although we may not engage him directly, indirectly, we're engaging the forces of darkness, the principalities and powers of the air, and we're all in that battle. And listen, the devil's gunning For every one of you who are saved. And so we're all in a battle. And I don't know about you, but it encourages my heart to know that, hey, I'm not alone. And when I come to the house of God and I see God's people and I see them smiling, even though they've got broken hearts, and I see them praising God even though they're carrying burdens. And I see them loving on other people and praying for one another, I realize although we're in a fight, we may be faint yet we can still pursue. Remember the brethren. Let me quickly say number three, focus on finishing. You gotta focus on finishing. These men were in a battle that they intended to finish. Now some people would say, well, you got 120,000 of them. What's 15,000? That's not a lot of not that's not a lot. But Gideon had set out to totally destroy the enemy. In other words, he was going to finish what he started. And he wasn't going to stop short. The Hitchens always encourage us when they sing that song we love, I Wanna Finish Well. It's one thing to start well, and it's good to have a good start. You need to have a good start. It's another thing to run well for a while. But it's a thing altogether differently to finish well. Gideon wanted to finish well. All these two kings led the fifteen thousand and they fled. By the way, they fled in a difficult direction. They fled into a wilderness area. They made it tough on them, man. They didn't go in an easy path. They went in a hard way. And they were going to make it tough for them to be caught. And so as they're fleeing, here these men are pursuing And they remember that, listen, we better stay on this trail because we've got to finish this job. Remember what Paul said? None of these things move me. Neither count my life dear unto myself, that I might finish my course with joy. I want to finish. Do you want to finish? And you say, what does it mean to finish? It means just to cross the finish line. They come to the end of the line and still be faithful, still be full of love for God, still be serving the Lord and still be in in love with the Lord Jesus and be in uh a s a servant of his, listen, I want to finish well. I want to finish well. And you know what I'm realizing? The closer I get to that line wherever it is, it's a little harder than I thought. It's a little harder than I thought. You know, there are times in your life you feel bulletproof. You know what I'm talking about? Go back a few decades. For some of us. And you go back and you realize, man, you think, look, I can handle that. I can get through that. I can take I can take anything I I used to say as a younger man, I could take anything for a short duration. I don't say it anymore because there's some things I ain't short I can take. For as for a short duration or a long, I don't know. There's just some things you just I'd just rather not go through. But as we get nearer the finish line, we realize, but listen, it is never more critical that we finish well than when we're close to the end. And I think folks we're getting close to the end. I appreciate the songs this evening focusing on heaven and the reality, my friend, that lies before us. what waits on us and all of that's out in the future, the future that only God knows. But listen, whether we go up in the rapture or we go out through the grave The reality is there's a finish line somewhere in the future, and by the grace of God, we need to finish well. And if you'll focus on it, you'll get there. You'll get there. A friend of mine drives truck and he used to tell me I'd say, man, I got 27 hours now to drive. And back then we'd drive it straight through. And so we'd start out and I'd preach Sunday night and as soon as I got through we'd get in the car and we'd start driving. And we'd drive all night, Sunday night, drive Monday, Monday night, Tuesday, and eventually roll in. And he would he would say encouraging things like this. He would say, Well just think about how nice it's going to be to see your family. And then he would say, don't get focused so much on getting it all done. He said, think about if I can just drive a hundred more miles. And then he said, when you get the hundred miles done, think about driving a hundred more. Now we were driving at that time 1,986 miles from doorstep to doorstep. And I can remember doing that and breaking it down. I'd see landmarks. I'd mark them as we traveled, and I would say, there's that hundred-mile mark. It's behind us now. There's that next hundred mile mark. There's that next. And man, it just encouraged you and you thought, you know what? I'm going to get this done And I'm saying in our Christian life, sometimes we forget that there is a finish line. The Bible says there's an end to all things. Now folks, you're not going to live forever, and I'm not going to live forever. And there's a finish line out there, and I want to cross it with a Bible in my hand. with love for God in my heart, with joy in my soul, with the commitment to Jesus Christ, and finish the way I started this race. May God help us to finish well. Focus on finishing. Let me say quickly, quickly, number four, ignore the brethren. Now you said, preacher, you're contradicting yourself. You said to remember the brethren. Now you're telling me to ignore the brethren. Well, there could there's some you've got to ignore Do you know what happened down here? Look in verse 5. And he said unto the men of Sukkoth , Give, I pray you, loaves of bread unto the people that follow me, for they be faint, and I am pursuing after Zebu and Zalmuna, kings of Midian. And the princes of Suka said, Are the hands of Ziba and Zalmuna now in thine hand? That we should give bread unto thine army. You know what they're saying? Where are those you you've got them in your hand? You you think you're going to get them? You you might have got the 120,000, but these guys are long gone. There's no way. You know what they're doing? They're discouraging them By the way, do you know the men of Sukkothar? And then he goes to the Penuel and it's the same crowd, same statement. They're Gadites. They're Gadites. You know who they are? They're one of the tribes of Israel. And they settled on the east side of Jordan. This crowd had a reputation of being discouraging to the people of God. Moses said to them in Numbers 32, they said, we'll just settle over here. We're happy. There's grass here and we got cows and the cows love the grass and we love the cows, so we're just going to hang out over here. And Moses said, hold on, fellas, you'll discourage your brethren if you don't go battle with them. If you hang out over here and don't go fight with the rest of the crowd. You're going to discourage God's children. And then Moses preached to them and said, look what God did. Remember those spies? Remember those people in Canaan? Or in the wilderness that discouraged the brethren and said, We can't go in. God buried them back yonder in the wilderness. You don't want to be like them. And when Moses got through preaching, they said, We'll go, we'll go We 'll go, but we're coming back. If you ask me, listen, the Reubenites, the Gadites, and that half tribe of Manasseh, they were just sort of halfway committed. They were content to live on the far side, on the other side of Jordan. They said, we're okay back here. You go on fight the battles. You go on and conquer the land, but we're all right. We're just going to stay right here. And they discourage - they had a long testimony of being a discouragement to the people of God. Listen, every Christian's not for you. And you've got to get that in your head. You've got to understand that there will be Christians who are notably discouragers. And ignore the brethren. Just gotta ignore them. I don't know what else to do with them. You've got to love them, they're brethren. You gotta love them because they're God's people. But you can ignore them, you can just turn a deaf ear like an aggravating fly off, you know, coming around. Just let them be. Just try to stay clear. Just let them be. Ignore the brethren. There are some brethren that are bent on discouragement. You ever talked to somebody, maybe been a little down, hoping they'd encourage you, and before it was over, you both wanted to hold hands and jump the bridge together. That's how, I mean, they're just discouragers. Some children of God, I don't, I know that's not a spiritual gift, but some of them got it. And sometimes you just got to ignore the brethren. Sometimes you've got to say, I'll never forget when I first surrendered to preach, man, my heart was excited. I was as ignorant and green as I could be, but I was excited and I wanted the Lord to do something in my life. And I had a delegation of older Christians surround me one Sunday night. And they said, I want to talk to you about we want to talk to you about something. I said, okay. And I know I was hoping they were going to give me something that would help me as a as a young Christian. I didn't know anything. And I was hoping they would sort of add fuel to my fire. And I remember what one of them said so clearly. They said, now young man, just settle down. This call to preach may or may not work out. This may just be youthful enthusiasm One day you'll be just like us. So just settle down. And I remember walking away from that and saying, Dear Lord in heaven, please don't let me be like them. I think I'd rather be in heaven than to be like them. They were miserable, had no victory, didn't serve God, they caused trouble everywhere they went. They were discouragers, notorious discouragers. Boy, it got me down. I thought, my goodness, what am I going to do? And one old preacher said to me, he said many things, but I can't say them all. But one of the things he said to me was, he said, just don't pay them no mind. Pay 'em no mind. He said, just go on and do what you're supposed to do. He said, watch that we you know, as a a farming area and we w most of us knew something about farming. He said, Watch that old mule. When the flies start buzzing around it, it doesn't pay it a bit of mine. It just hunkers down in the p in the harnesses and just pulls and pulls and pulls and goes on. He said, just be that way. Church, sometimes you've got to ignore the brethren. Now I'm going to tell you something. Gideon did some things that that fit only in the context of the times. Okay? He said, uh I'm going to take some briars and teach you people a lesson. Now, you do that and I do that, we'll get in trouble with God. Now we might like to do that. We might like to take some briars and teach some folks some lessons, but it ain't going to do them no good. It's certainly not going to do you any good. But in the context of the times, Gideon brought back to them retribution. He came back and I I'd love to see faces when he held up the head of Zeba and Zalmuna and said, I got a voice, you remember those princes you were looking for? Here they are. And he says, where's the switches? It's time to do business with this crowd. And of course he destroyed Panuel. He tore that place to pieces. But what I'm saying is sometimes you've just got to ignore the brethren And listen, sometimes the brethren are ignorant about what they say and it may not have meaning that you think it has. You've got to give me the Bible says love thinketh no evil. And so it's good for you and I to give the benefit of the doubt to the people of God. Let me close with this. Number five. If I'm going to be faint and yet pursuing, I must believe God. This is what it boils down to. I must believe God. Look back in Judges seven seven. Judges seven seven The Bible says, And the Lord said unto Gideon, By the 300 men that lap will I save you. And deliver the Midianites into thine hand, and let all the other people go, every man unto his place. You know what that sounds like to me? That sounds like to me a promise. God said, I'm going to deliver with these three hundred men, I'm going to save you and deliver the Midianites into your hand. That was a promise from God. Now when Gideon went into this battle, do you notice Gideon had to have constant reassurance? You remember he he he was a little bit worried about it and he he he put out the fleece and God took care of the fleece business. But then if you'll remember as you read on in chapter 7, Gideon was allowed to hear a man's dream. And uh that was just God's mercy to him. That man dreamed about that barley cake rolling into the Midianites and destroying all the tents and making everything fall down. And Gideon said, That 's me That's me and these 300 men. God let me hear that to be encouraged that God's going to keep his promise. And listen, sometimes I need the encouragement, the reinforcement. of the Spirit of God to take the word of God and remind me that the promises are true. Paul in Acts 27, after that long abstinence, stood and said, Sirs, I believe God. that it shall be even as it was told unto me. What did God tell him? God said, Paul, you're going to get over on the other side. Not a man's life is going to be lost. You'll survive the storm. You'll get to Rome. You'll do what I said you were going to do And you know what? Paul just had to make a choice. By the way, the storm's still raging. That thing hadn't let up at all. He's standing on a storm toss deck. And he's telling these men, I believe God, that we're going to survive this thing, and then the ship runs aground and the back of the ship blows open from the force of the waves, and it's not looking like God's going to do what he said he would do. But let me tell you something. Don't you ever put faith in circumstances over the God of heaven, because the God of heaven can always be trusted when nobody else can. Believe God. Just believe God Just decide you're going to believe God. Listen, if you get that settled, that's 90% of the battle. But I'll just believe God. No matter what everybody else says, believe God. These men, these Gadites said, You know, where where you're gonna get the princess? Look at you. Your tongues are hanging out Your hands are shaky from from from no nourishment. Your legs are wobbly. You barely got across Jordan. You telling me you're going to go out there in this vast wilderness and find those fifteen thousand Skilled men who are run running for their lives and you're gonna bring 'em back, Gideon said, Well, God said I would. God said I would. Look what he said here. He said in verse seven and Gideon , this is chapter eight now, Gideon said, Therefore, when the Lord hath delivered. Don't you like that? Zebun Zalmuna, then will I tear your flesh with thorns of the wilderness with briars? He said, You just wait until God does what he's gonna do You know what Gideon understood? That man's weakness does not hinder God's omnipotence. You better get a hold of that. God 's omnipotence is not thwarted because of your human inability. When my flesh and my heart fail me, the Lord's the strength of my life. When I come to the end of me, I hadn't diminished him. When I'm exhausted and feeble and shaken and frail, why, it doesn't alter him whatsoever. He's still God. And you know what? When I believe God, it helps me press on. He said to the men there in Penuel, he said, When I come again in peace. I will break down this tower. You know what that meant? When I've defeated my enemy and I come back in a peaceful way, I'm going to deal with you. You know what he was doing? I'm just believing God. My men are tired. They fought all day. Now they're going to run into the night because the Bible says he got this job done before the sun come up the next morning. You know what that tells me? That God can still use weak men to do wondrous things if they'll just believe him. These men were faint, but they're still fighting. These men are worn out, but they're pressing on. Man, they're tired and they want to find somewhere to Sit down and eat a meal and get their strength back, but they're not going to stop because there's a job to do. Listen, friend, heaven will be the place to rest. Heaven will be the place when we'll recline. Heaven will be the place when we'll put our swords up and study war no more. Heaven will be the place When we put take off the spiritual uh battle gear and disengage and say, I'm done, but not until we get to heaven. Press on. It won't be long. Till we hear the glad song. Aren't you glad that song is going to be Christ Returneth? Hallelujah. And he reignus. Well, this is how we can continue faint yet pursuing. Conquer your feelings. Ask the Lord to help you with that. There's a proverb that says that a a man that doesn't rule his spirit is like a city without walls It's dangerous not to be able to rule you f you gotta rule in things. You gotta pull in feelings in line and say we're gonna do I'm reminded of a dear brother, he's in heaven now. I'd see him come to church and we didn't know he was as sick as he was. I don't know that he did. But boy, you could tell it's all he could do to get up five steps to get in the church. And he wore one of them, I call it an old man hat. I don't know what it is I don't speak so disparagingly of old men now at this stage anymore. I kind of like them. But anyway, he wore an old man hat and he would sell that thing like a frisbee and land it On the hat rack at church. Man, he was getting it impressed. Kids loved it. They were like, oh, man, that guy can do something. He got top of them steps and he's he he was really trying to get his breath and he's standing there Holding that thing, he'd take a hat off and he'd sail it over there and boom it'd land in the same spot every service. I'd say, How are you, brother? And he said, I'm wore out. He said, I'm gonna tell you one thing. He said, this old body's got to listen to me. I'm not listening to it. And he'd get in there and sit down and worship God. He did that until God took him home. He'd often say, now, he said, preacher, pray that I'll die with my boots on. He said, I want to die with my boots on. He'd meet and pray with me on Saturday morning. He was a man of God. What a blessing he was. He invested in my heart. He'd pray. He challenged me on one occasion. He got in my face. He said, You got a decision to make, preacher. I said, what's that? He said, you're either going to be a Moses and follow God or be an Aaron and follow men. You figure it out. And he marched out of my office. He became my dearest friend. I remember getting a call one March morning. His wife was frantic. She said, Don 's down. You need to come, please. And I remember pulling up and the paramedics had him covered up, his old hearted quit on him. And there he laid in his front yard with his boots on. So all I could see was his boots. God let him die with his boots on. He'd been to prayer meeting. He'd served the Lord that week. You didn't get in his house without being told how to get to heaven You didn't get near him with an earshot without getting a word for Jesus Christ. He died with his boots on. He finished the race. He left out of here honorably and serving God and he crossed the finish line. Church, you may be faint, and I think probably all of God's little children are, but don't quit pursuing. Stay in the race. Fight a good fight. Finish your course. Run faithfully until Jesus takes you home. Realize that God will help you and just simply believe Him every step of the way. May God help us tonight. May God help us. Would you stand with me, please? Our Father, please help us now. There's perhaps need