Luke's Gospel , chapter 8. Hold your finger there. Turn over to Mark's Gospel, Chapter 5. We're going to be flipping back and forth between these passages today. Daughter woke up this morning. She said, Oh dad, my throat's bad. I can't sing She did pretty good, didn't she? Amen. Then I got in church and my throat started going bad. Alright, so you pray. God give grace. Amen. I don't know about the circumstance you're going through right now. I don't know the problem you're facing for tomorrow. Death comes sweeping through. We go to funerals. We throw you trouble, but I praise God he holds tomorrow. Amen? God is I like that. And out of respect for God's word, I'm going to ask that we stand. Loose Gospel, Chapter 8 I want to start down reading in verse twenty four. Well sorry, let's start in verse 25. We'll just read one verse and we'll go back to the passage. He said unto them Where is your faith? Verse 25. And they being afraid wondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this? For he commandeth even the winds and the water. And they obey him. Let's pray. Our God, we need your help today. My wake is my faith is very weak. And I failed to trust you many times, O God. But I pray, dear Lord, you challenge me, challenge these dear people. And may Jesus Christ be glorified in everything we do and say. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, maybe seated In Mark's Gospel chapter 4, verse 40, he said unto them, Why are you so fearful? Fear pervades the land. The number one cause of death in America today is heart attack, disease of the heart, cardiovascular system. One in three Americans, it used to be four, is now going to get cancer, number two cause of death. Number three cause of death in America still is accidents and medical malpractice. But as we look at this passage, I want you to understand we serve a God. Who's a faithful God? Righteous God, altogether lovely. He's merciful. And He's just. Amen. Verse 1 of chapter 5. I'm not going to deal with all four questions because my time doesn't allow it. So we're going to just start with a couple of questions here. But Jesus begins to ask the people various questions. Not because he doesn't know. Not because he doesn't care, trying to take up time. We ask, how are you? What does the average American say? Oh, I'm fine. If you go to Russia and ask the same question, you better be ready to listen for 20 minutes. Okay? Because they will tell you how they are. And if you go to India, especially South India, you can ask them how they are, they will tell you every ache and pain. Alright, that's just the culture. Americans are very hypocritical, and we say yes, we're fine I've learned to say I am blessed. Amen. Yes, I've served a God who gives many blessings. And they came over in verse 1, the Bible says, unto the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gaderenes, when he was come out of the ship, immediately they met him out of the tombs, a man with an unclean spirit. The Bible says his dwelling, look at that. Where did he live? In the tombs, and no man could bind him. No, not with chains. I'm afraid to tell you But we live in America where death seems to be very prominent. It's glorified. That seems to be the past time of movies, the focus of our culture, and sadly the center of many of our activities. Death in our games, in our video games. Death in our thinking. But here's a man, he had a great background. I can imagine him having a good family. I can imagine him being a good citizen. Possibly even a good job. He lived well Some of you came from a good family. You lived well, had a good job, but something little You thought that was insignificant, then nobody noticed. Nobody knows was grabbing your life You'd committed it on sin, you tried to hide it. You were hoping wife and kids didn't know about it What you were watching, what you were taking , who you were seeing. Whether you know it or not, narcotics in America is a lost cause when it comes to warfare. Since the border has been opened, fentanyl is on increase. We have over two hundred thousand deaths in America. Just from drug overdoses. But here's a man. Probably had a good family, good wife, good kids. The one little sin in his life. Eventually, when you cannot control what you thought, it controls you. We call it addiction, do we not? Whether it's porn, whether it's drugs, whether it's alcohol, whether it's work Yeah? Work can control you. Be careful. Whether it's money, whether it's passions, unbridled behavior and character. It will soon get you to the point where society says, we do not want you. Why says, get out! He says, I don't want to be around you. Where did he end up dwelling? Among the tombs. The edge of town, we know where the death cemetery is, right? Mm-hmm. I drive all along the eastern shore. Cambridge Maryland, only Pokemok. And I w I look at the buildings of the old chapels, preacher. And if I had time, I walk among the cemeteries and I just begin to reflect about the goodness of God. It'll bring you back to earth, folks. That's right. It 'll bring you to reality. Our church has buried just several people in the last few months. Okay. Thirty-five-year-old young man, drugs. His mother 's been on drugs, and arms amputated Imagine having to bury that young man tell to try to tell the family. Mm-hmm. What happened what end has happened? All of a sudden, everything you know in life is gone. Life becomes a waste. Can I tell you today, it doesn't matter the circumstance you're in today, our God is And he is able. He can change your past. He can make a great future. He can take the waste. And he can manage it well. Mm-hmm. The Bible says, who had his dwelling among the tombs, no man could bind him. You see, sin has a way that you think you got it under control, but slowly, slowly, it begins to wind you, it begins to bind you, it begins to control you, and before long. You begin to tell I can't do anything about it, I can't live this way, and you begin to run away from everything you've ever known. He says, no, not with chains. I got a question for you this morning. What chain is binding you? You see, society says we're gonna control you with drugs Alcoholism isn't a disease, folks. It doesn't come in a disease, it doesn't come in a bottle. It's not sold on the market. It's not a choice you make to drink. It's a choice we make. Society tries to sophisticate everything. Make it look good. But God puts in his word the descriptions of sin. He may not give you the actual title of the sins. God doesn't do that because he wants to include every sin. The Bible says he has been often bound with feathers and chains, and chains have been plucked asunder by him, the feathers broken in pieces, neither can any man tame him. Can I tell you, the only untamed thing in this world is the human heart. You can't control the heart. It's your heart that takes you away from God. It's your heart that leads you down the wrong path. My son, give me thy heart He doesn't ask for your wallet. He doesn't ask for your time. He doesn't ask for your abilities. He doesn't ask for your goodness. He doesn't ask for your greatness He doesn't ask for your titles. He doesn't ask for a diploma. He doesn't have ask for your abilities and a He says, I want your heart. We've gotten to the point that we have lost the control of the heart. The heart of it all is the human heart. The Bible said, Neither could any man tame him. If you read the book of James, something else is compared to the heart that's uncontrolled the less the tongue. Don't go let's not walk down that path today, okay? We'll let that one be. But every creature under heaven has been tamed, but the tongue. And here's the man whose heart has not been tamed. Why do we let our children walk down this path and they go down that path? Because the heart has never been surrendered to the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a heart issue. I did some research back in November when I came off the field. I like to know American statistics. It's always intrigued me. Back in 2016 In America, 64% of our youth under the age of 16 have never stepped into a Bible-believing church. 64%. So last November I began to read. Our number is now up to 78 to 79% of young people. Under the age of 16 have never been in a Bible-believing church. My dear friend, this is the United States of America. This is not India, this is not Africa, this is not Peru, this is not Venezuela, this is America. Why? Somebody's heart is not right in the right place. Something's wrong. Crime is on the increase 1,600% in the last four years. Mm-hmm. Oh, well. Verse 5. And always day, night and day, he was in the mountains in the tomb. What's he doing? He's crying. You see that person. Every church who's listened to me, every church needs people with those with that kind of background, with the tattoos on their body and broken hearts that have cut themselves. Why? We are a church. That's living in the community influencing society. We've gotten so prim and proper in our churches that we look down upon people who dress a little different, look a little d different, and talk a little different. There's something wrong. We cannot separate ourselves from society. Isolationism doesn't get you anywhere. We need men in the police departments. We need men in the women in the military department. Why? We need men and women in politics. Why? That we can be an influence for the gospel of Jesus Christ. Not everybody can be a missionary. Did you know that? Not everybody can go to the foreign field and leave everything. But somebody's got to be missionary here. Yes, sir. In our police departments, on our school boards. Hello, good morning. The school boards are a mess right now. You better pay attention to Cecil County School Board. You better be ele uh electing proper people. Why? God has a plan. Satan has a plan to counter that plan. So what's happening? He's cutting, he's crying. That's right. They cut themselves off. Watch those young people, they cut themselves off. They're cutting their bodies Verse six. But when he saw Jesus afar off, If Jesus was not coming out of that boat, coming up on the land, walking near the tombs, where dead people are. Our problem is we want to stay away from where the dead people are, right? Yeah. So they can't see us. Why? Because we live in fear. You gotta go where the people are if you're gonna win 'em. Mm-hmm. I'm tired of this philosophy. We need to bring the unsaved people to church so they can hear the gospel. No, my friend, we need to take the gospel where the unsaved are. That's true Christianity. That's what I call marketplace Christianity. Paul preached in the marketplace, did he not? Jesus preached in the marketplace, did he not? I was telling my mom and dad the other day, I said, you know, Jesus, John the Baptist preached to the soldiers, did he not? They came to him and asked him what they should do. He said, repent. The message is the same today. We need men and women going out preaching to the soldiers. That's right. Jesus preached and talked to the soldiers. Paul wrote about the soldiers. We need men and women that will be in the marketplace that will address the issues where the people have the questions. But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran. Can I tell you why? The demons know the Savior. That's right. It's the human heart that refuses to acknowledge the Savior. It's not going to be just future. I believe in Philippians chapter 2. Every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess. But can I tell you what? It's a lot better if they would confess and if they would bounce today before it's too late, amen. We have a judgmental society says that one day they're gonna bow. Hmm. That's sad thinking. That 's sad thinking. Now you have passed judgment upon them. You see, our labor must be in love And if I'm gonna love my s my brother, if I'm gonna love the sinner, I'm gonna tell them where they are right now. The Bible says he came and worshipped him. I'm not gonna dwell there. There's a lot of topic right there. How he worshipped. And he cried with a loud voice and said, What have I do with thee, Jesus, thou son of the most high God? I adjure thee by God that thou torment me not! The devils know what's gonna happen. They know the future. They know what's next. They don't need TV evangelists to tell them what's going on next. They know to do the next prophets, seminar to tell them what's going on next. If you get in this vote, you know what's coming next. Mm-hmm. If the devil's know about the future, why don't we as God's people know what's going to happen next? Whoever gets in the White House ain't gonna change America. Did you know that? Whoever gets in the state house down there in Annapolis, they ain't gonna change the state of Maryland either. The only way the God's country, this country is going to change for God, is the house of God. Mm-hmm. It's the church house. Young man, I asked him back there how long you've been coming to church. When's the last time you were in church? Right back there in those Sunday school rooms. I had both of them in my Sunday school class. Fifth and sixth grade Sunday school. And I've never stopped praying for him. Young man back there came back and hugged me. That's right. Pray for these young guys You have to love them. Where they are. Not for what they've done, amen. Not for the mistakes they've had, but because of who they are. And I'll tell you publicly I love all three of you. All right? But can I tell you why? Jesus came and they bound. Then he comes to the question This is question number two. I'm not dealing with question number one, okay? I'm dealing with question number two. He said, Did it come unto me out of the man that thou unclean spirit? And he asked him, What is thy name? The first question we already read. Why are you so fearful? Where's your faith, right? Christian, if you're going to walk with God, it starts by faith. Don't ask to prove God. Amen? Don't ask to prove creation. It has to start by faith. I've been teaching online the introduction to Genesis. Moses did not start with the question: who is God? He started with the fact that God is. Okay? In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. Amen? Your faith is what's going to determine how you go forward and make that step if you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, for by grace are you saved through faith. Not of yourselves. It's a gift of God, not of ours, lest any man should boast. That's just the beginning point. Where's the faith? It cannot be in things, it can't be in your parents, it can't be in your future, it can't be in your money, it can't be in your job, it cannot be in your famil I definitely better not be in the church, amen. God God help us that can't be in the government. Where's your faith? Faith must be grounded, rooted, established upon a given word of God. Faith cometh by hearing. Hearing by the word of God. That's right. It's nothing else, nothing less. Don't try to take any corner corners on it We are trying to take a shortcut to a faithful Christian life when we can't get in this book. There's no shortcuts to Christianity. There's no shortcuts to salvation. There's no shortcuts to a Christian life. Has to start by faith, walk by faith. I'm going up by faith, amen. I'm going up. But the second question: what is your name? Who are you? We have a tendency to portray to the world someone that we are not. Isn't that right? You know what we use that word for hypocrisy. That's where the rubber mints the road. We don't like to think people think evil of us Different of us. Evil of us. Right? We all want to be well accepted But Jesus Christ comes to the point. He didn't ask him what have you been doing? He didn't ask where you came from. He didn't ask you what's your promise. He's asking your name today. Because good name is rather to be chosen than great. Riches and loving favor rather than silver and gold. The name In the olden days they made they put the name in association with the family. Some of these names that people name their kids today, God help us. They put apostrophes right in the middle of the name. I don't get it. I don't get it. One of the drivers that works for Walmart, his name is such as us 14 syllables. I'm like, what in the world? Mm-hmm. What a name. You see, your name reveals your character Mm-hmm. We're more worried about reputation, aren't we? God deals with character. Your reputation can be tarnished. Your reputation you can lose. But when you lose your character, be careful. Everything's gone. Mm-hmm. God knows us by our character. He asked him, not because he didn't know, but he wanted to admit who I am, where I've fallen, what I'm doing right now. What is thy name? And he answered him, My name is Legion, for we are many. This thee them, he, she, him, them, thee way. That crowd. The problem is they don't have identity by a name. That's right. Jesus asked him his identity. Dear Christian, the problem we've lost in America is identity. We have an identity crisis. We don't know who we are. We don't know where we came from. We don't know why we're here. We're taught in public school that we came from a monkey, right? Big blast, bang, we're all here. God have mercy. No, we need to know who we are. My identity is in Christ. In Christ alone. That's right. See, this man had lost his identity. That's why he got hooked on whatever he was hooked on. That's why he was cut off from society. That's why he was cut off and living among the tombs. Because he had lost what? His identity. Ability to relate to others. It's called the human soul, amen God created us spirit, soul, and body. And identity is that sense, that relation of dealing with others. Our average young person spends. Get this now. Eight years old. Eight years old. You know what the average young person is spending time on games? How many hours a day? It's not two hours. It's not four hours. It's not six hours. It's eight hours a day. Eight-year-olds are spending on games. And they don't know how to relate to others. They don't know how to relate to their friends. They don't know how to cope with life because Satan has robbed them of their name, identification. And he besought him much that he would not send him away out of the country. Now there lived nigh unto the mountains a great herd of swine feeding, and all the devils beside him saying, Oh, look at this prayer. And you can study this passage according to the prayers too. You can study this passage according to the questions. But here's one of the prayers. Look at this. And the devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine that we may enter them. Imagine wanting to live with the s pigs. Hmm. That's the prayer of the devils. The devils don't care who they spend time with. They can spend time with preachers. They can spend time with deacons. They don't care. They can spend time with housewives. They can spend time with the rock concert people. Yes, they can Mm-hmm. They don't care. Why? They have no identity. They're just spirits controlled by another spirit. Mm-hmm. They can forward Jesus gave them leave. Two things I want to say about that. Number one, every human is either oppressed or possessed by evil spirits That's the condition of our country. That's the condition of humanity. We are either possessed or Oppressed. If you're a believer, know the Lord Jesus Christ, you can be oppressed, amen. But you cannot be possessed. Where the Spirit of God is, there is liberty Okay? Where the Holy Spirit of God is, the evil spirit cannot dwell. I believe in the stealing of the Holy Spirit of God. But you can be oppressed. And I've been depressed many times. I was told my daughter the other day we saw demons come in different forms. Okay We moved out of one house because we were caring for this older couple. And so the householder says we couldn't have more than our family. So we moved across town just a little ways into another house And it was a dark area. Okay? Some parts are pretty dark, some parts are pretty easy to live in. But this is a dark area. We were getting ready to have our annual conference. Whenever we have the annual conference, the devils do anything. They pour oil on top of the engine. We don't know what the sources are coming from, okay? We don't know where the problems are. I come out of the house, the dog is barking like crazy. The kids come running in and said, hey, there's something across the road. Just literally across the driveway. There's a little road there, back road, and there's a tree across there. And this creature was sitting there all black. Black as can be, black clothes, black face, everything. I told my kids, get in the house. The dog was ballistic. I don't remember. Did we pray? I don't remember what we did exactly. We prayed, then I went back outside. And just like that, that thing disappeared. It disappeared. Well come to find out he was making his presence known among the neighbors. But he could not come into our little compound. He stood outside that gate. What does he do? He instills fear. Mm-hmm. That's what they do. Evil spirits will do that every time. From first 2 Timothy chapter 1 verse 7, God has not given us the spirit of fear, amen. Devils will do that if you're fearing what your parents say, if you're fearing what your devil boss will say if you're fearing what your preacher will say if you're fearing what God is doing if you're fearing the future there's something wrong you're not possessed by the Spirit of God amen So, yes, his dwelling, his control , his fear. And Jesus asked him who you are. You need to know who you are. Well , forward Jesus gave them leave and the unclean spirits went out, the spirits can do nothing without the permission of the Lord Jesus Christ. Please know that. That's the second thing I want you to know about evil spirits. Number one, they either control you, oppress you, and number two, they have no permission without the sp God giving them permission. Joe, God gave him permission, amen. That's right. That's an interesting thought right there. Our God knows every struggle we face. Okay Verse 18. Verse 18. And when he was coming to the ship, he that had been possessed of the devil's trade and they might be with him. Amazing prayer, isn't it? To be with Jesus. After you've been delivered, after you've been set free. After you're sitting. After you're sitting in the right mind. Alright. Luke's also tells him he's sitting. At the Peter Jesus, he's in his right mind. The Bible says he's clothed. Amen. What's he do? He says, I want to be with Jesus. I got a problem with people who make a profession of faith and don't want to be with Jesus. They repeat a little prayer, they never show up for church thereafter. Why? I don't think they've trusted Jesus Christ in the first place. This man says, I want to be with Jesus. How be Jesus suffered him now? I said, Go home to thy friends, tell them how great things the Lord has done unto thee and had. What does Jesus do? Have compassion on thee. Don't just tell them your bad testimony. Don't just tell them the great miracle. Tell them about the compassion of Christ. Mm-hmm. Your neighbors, your hometown, your places that you came from need to hear about the compassion of Christ. What does Jude 22 tell us? And of some having compassion. What's going to happen? Making a difference. Mm-hmm. That's what Jesus sent him for. Here's a man who lost his identity because of his drugs. Because of alcohol, because of a choice, because you were cut off from society. Do not let society dictate who you are. Your identity is in Christ. Number two Verse thirty. The Bible says Verse 25, a certain woman which had an issue of blood twelve years. How long? Twelve years. It doesn't matter how long you've had the problem. Had suffered many things and many physicians had spent all that she had. Whoa, I know what that's like. End up with kidney stones back in February. End up with the emergency room. Doctors did two CT scans, still couldn't find it, finding one doctor, senior doctor says, I think you already passed it. I said, Yeah If you'd asked me, I could have already told you that. They charged us $19,000, we're still paying for it. Mm-hmm And the second time they did a CT scan, they had they didn't give me the medicine to take care of the dice. So I was almost thrown up for four days. Mm-hmm. Doesn't matter how long it's been going on, folks. God knows your physical conditions. God knows your physical limitations. God knows your physical problems. Amen. And I praise God He knows. Not only he is, but he knows. Mm-hmm. The Bible says he suffered many things of many physicians. I have trouble with physicians anymore. Okay. And to spend all that she had was nothing better, but rather grew worse Sometimes we feel like it's hopeless, don't we? Mm-hmm. When she heard of Jesus, came in the press behind and touched His garment. Can I tell you according to the Levitical law, number one, she wasn't supposed to be in public. Number two, she wasn't supposed to touch anybody She was supposed to be away. And when Jesus was delivered of Mary, because of the blood issue, she had Mary had to make a sacrifice. Amen. If mer if Mary was the immaculate Mary as they complained she was, she would never have to made a sacrifice for sin. Mm-hmm. This woman Broke the customs and the binding of the law. Religion binds you. Okay? Bound by the religion, suffering physically, and she comes out in public where she is bad, and she says, I'm going to touch Jesus. And straightway. For she said, if I touch, if I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole. Amen. The problem is we don't have enough faith that because we're bound by religion, we're bound by customs, we're bound by activity, we're bound by the law, we fail. And I'm not Pentecostal by any chance, okay? Don't get me wrong. But we fail to reach out. Lord, I need you today. I'm reaching out to you today. The doctors have failed me. My money has failed me. Society has failed me. I'm reaching out to you. Yeah. If I may touch but his clothes I shall be whole. You see, in India we got all kinds of false philosophy. Pentecostals have taken over. Charismatics have taken over. And we told our young men we need literature in our language, our young men that know English, I buy them commentaries, I buy them. them literature and we give them something they can read. But we got a lot of young men and women serving God today that cannot read in the English language. So we got a burden for the translation work. Translating what? Commentaries. We just finished the ABCs of Christian growth. It took us a little over a year. We just finished the book of Acts. A commentary of over 600 pages. It costs us a little over $2,600 for one commentary. And that's not being published. That's just being put up on an app. Okay? You can get a tablet, you can get a computer, you can get a phone, and now the pastors can read it. That is our burden Why? So they know what the Bible says is true. You see, the charismatics have all kinds of literature out, Jehovah's Witnesses have all kinds of literature out. They have a day of putting Books upon books upon books. But we independent fundamental Baptists. I say fundamental sometimes. We have failed in the literature department. We have failed in writing. My wife is writing. I am writing. So there are people who have daily devotional material. So there are people who have the doctrinal material. So they can read in their own language and grow. We don't have to go to charismatic meetings, amen. We don't need the touch of a man. I need the touch of a master. But that's what they've been fooled with. Mm-hmm. You go to a meeting, they're shouting, hallelujah, they're rolling on the floor, they're laughing, they're shouting, they're carrying on, they're jumping up and down, and the young kids are taught. same thing and we're raising up generations of Christians that don't have a relationship with God, that don't care about walking with God, because all this peripheral stuff has come and replaced a relationship with Jesus Christ. Dear Christian, if you want to walk with God, you've got to have faith, you've got to have identity, but you also have to have be willing to say, Yes, I will reach out. It's outside of my power. You are going to face something in your life. Like I told you when we started, we don't know where you are. I don't know where you are. I don't know the condition you're in. But you've got to be able to say, Lord, I'm going to reach out to Jesus Christ. Stop reaching out to society. Stop reaching out to Trump. Stop reaching out to every election people. Stop reaching out to the culture. Stop reaching start reaching out to That's right. Straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of that plague. Verse 30, what the Bible says, Who touched my clothes? Faith in action. Amen. That's right. Faith in question, faith in identity, but now we got faith in action. Where's your faith? What's your name? Who touched me? Who touched my clothes? Last question. Verse thirty-five. As they're walking, Jesus gets off their boat, heads into the city to a man by the name of Jarius. His daughter is twelve years old, she's gravely ill. He's come to my house But as they're walking, the woman at the plague touches him. As they're walking, the crowd is thronging. As the walking messenger comes, you're gonna get a lot of messages you're walking, amen. You're getting a little lot of opposition when you're walking. These people are walking with Jesus, still there's a lot of problems. Walking with Jesus does not mean God is going to reprove the problems. Amen. There's no removal of problems. There's no removal of us. It's just the simple fact he is with us. Okay. What happens? While he yet spake, verse 35, there came from the ruler of the synagogue's house certain which said, Thy daughter is dead. Why? Circle that word. Why? We ever ask that question, Brother Harvey. Why Why this Lord? Why that Lord? Why me, Lord? Yeah? Why my family? Broken heart, tears running down their face. Why, Lord? Why troublest thou the master? Any further. Yeah. What's gonna keep you from going further? Yeah A little message came along, a little bird came along and said, Why trouble the master anymore, right? She's dead. It's all over, it's done. What do we do? Disease has come, gripped its victim, right? Mm-hmm. What do we say? Why God? It 's time to quit. I'm not going to church anymore. I'm not going to prayer meeting anymore. Why? Thy daughter is dead. We had this in personal devotions the other night, so what would we do? If you got a message, your daughter is dead. Wow. Your son is dead. As soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken, he saith unto the ruler of the synagogue I guess we'll just give up and go home today, right? But that's what we've been talking about. Do you know why we have Christianity is a short Christianity? Because we watch TV that is so filled with ads, our attention span is this long Mm-hmm. Try coaching kids. I've done a little soccer coaching. Kids don't have attention span anymore. Try preaching for two hours in the church. People don't have attention span anymore. Oh, two hours movie? No problem, preacher. Right? Yeah. Well, revival services all week long? Oh, that's a little much, right? Uh-huh. Why? We've given up. But he says, be not afraid. Only belief. When that sentence comes, when that prognosis comes When that sad news will arise in the mail, email, text Mm-hmm. We can say be not afraid. Only believe. And he suffered no man to follow them, save Peter, James, and John, the brother of James. And he comes to the house of the ruler of the synagogue and sees the tumult, and them that wept and wailed with it bitterly. This is the sign of death in the sight of the people. Everything's gone My wife and I have been to many Indian funerals. They hire people, the neighbors come in, they all weep and wail. They didn't care about that neighbor for a bit. Not one word. The family members, you know, the biggest family member that comes through is there walking a half a mile down the road and they're weeping and wailing, yelling and screaming, and everybody comes along and there's a long procession as they come to that house. It's something the American mentality can't grasp. But they're just weeping and wailing and falling back and forth like a drunken person. Mm-hmm. Men and women won't do it. And we always know who that person is. Mm-hmm. And when he was coming, he said unto them, verse 39, Why make ye this a door and weep? Why make ye this adopt? Can I put this in modern English? Bridge, is that okay? What's all the ruckus about? Why are you stirring up Barakas? Why are you making up trouble? Why have you given up? In the sight of the world, everything's dead. Can I tell you today? We look around us, everything's fallen apart. We look around us, people have fallen, prices have fallen, God lives a f But I can I tell you today! Jesus is alive! We 've given up on society! We've given up on the next generation! We've given up on everything! Stop looking around and start looking up! Our Savior is still on the throne. He's still saving people. He's never abdicated. He's in control of all things. Why? He created all things for his glory and by his power. When we think things are dead, when we think things are falling apart, when we think our house is gone, can I tell you what? Only believe. Stop making garakas. Quiet your heart a little bit. One of the things my wife, she's done a lot of counseling with young people, kids that want to commit suicide, one of the things she tells them is control your emotions. We're emotionally, can I use the word emotionally challenged? No. But emotionally controlled people. We've got to learn to live by the Spirit, not by our emotions. Mm-hmm. Why make you this the door and weep? What does the Bible say? The damsel is not dead. But sleepeth. Because what does he do? And I like this verse 41. He took the damsel by the hand. When you think life is gone, when you think everything is finished, our Savior reaches down with his mighty hand. And he lifts us up. Amen. That's right. He cares. You see the hand represents love. The hand represents care. The hand represents provision. The hand represents his presence. When you think everything else is gone, he reaches down. His hand is still there. Can I tell you why? His hand is still on Marinata Baptist Church. He's reaching out. He wants to challenge you today. You may think it's dead. You may think it's been for twelve years. You may think it's for ten years. You notice the woman had 12 issues of this issue. You notice this child is 12 years issue. Problem. Mm-hmm. A child twelve years old dead But God has a plan. No matter what's happened in the last twelve years in your life, He has a plan to lift you up. Do you know Him as your Savior? Are you willing to surrender and say, Lord, I want to sit at your feet. I want to walk with Jesus today. I want to love him with all my heart. I want to give you my life. I want to give you my failures. I want to give you everything because I know you want my heart. Let's pray. Are we walking with Jesus today? Every head bowed every eye closed that the preacher comes forward