Trusting Jesus, that is all, and can I have this? That's enough. It's enough. I'm I'm uh I've enjoyed the music this morning, haven't you? These precious reminders of these great truths of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I want you to open your Bibles with me to the book of Romans again. Romans chapter number four. Romans chapter number four. And for sake of time, I'm just going to read three verses, though we're going to look at the Lord helping us the whole chapter. Romans chapter 4, and I'd like to begin reading in verse 23. And when you found your place, I'm going to invite you to stand with me, if you would please. As we honor God's word together. Romans chapter 4 and verse 23 says, now it was not written for his sake alone. That's a reference to Abraham. This isn't written, the whole chapter, by the way, is about Abraham, the Old Testament example. They said it's not written, this wasn't all written just for him, that it was imputed to him. But for us also, to whom it shall be imputed, if we believe on him that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead. Who was delivered for our offenses and was raised again for our justification. You could summarize Romans chapter four in this statement, that faith alone, in Christ alone, saves. Faith alone in Christ alone saves. Let's pray together. Father, thank you for the privilege that we have to open the Bible together. Father, we appreciate the good songs that we've already enjoyed. We appreciate them, Father, because of what they remind us of and who they remind us of. We thank you, Lord, for the Lord Jesus who loved us and would go to the cross and pay our sin debt in full, so that we could sing and enjoy the beautiful truth that Jesus Trusting Jesus. That is all. Lord, we thank you today for this great freedom of salvation that you've given and the fullness of salvation. So Father, would you help us now, please, as we study this passage together? May the Spirit of God have his way. And the Word of God have free course, and above everything, may the Lord Jesus be magnified and be preeminent in this place. We love you, Lord, and we want to love you more. Help us, we pray. And Lord, in these few moments that we have together separate us from the cares, distractions, and other things of life that would keep us from hearing your voice. Lord, would you hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus? Have your will and way, and we'll give you the glory, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said Amen. You can be seated. Thank you for standing. I would encourage you to read Romans chapter number four. The tale is of Romans 4, the life of Abraham, and what God was doing in the life of Abraham and why he was doing it. Again, I want to say that what we learn from Abraham, if we learn anything from Abraham, is that faith alone, in Christ alone, is sufficient. Abraham is a living example of what trusting God will do If I could have hand-picked songs this morning, I don't think I could have done any better than what we've been able to sing because it's all told us the same truth. I'm going to try to magnify here this morning. As we study the life of Abraham, we're introduced to this Old Testament example, and what a character that he is. He teaches us that a person is saved not by the outward works that they do, but a person is saved by faith. We're saved by faith. In fact, the scripture declares this in Ephesians chapter 2, for by grace are you saved through faith. It is a work of trusting the Lord. Jesus said, this is the work that you do. What is that work that we do? We trust the Lord. Salvation doesn't come by me doing. Salvation comes because I trust in the one who did it all Abraham is a living example of this through his whole life. Now, there are several things said about Abraham, and I'd like to walk through some of these. Number one, Abraham is called a father. Do you see that in verse number one? What shall we say then that Abraham, our father, as pertaining to the flesh, hath found? Abraham's a father. You say, well, preacher, how how was Abraham a father? Well, first, he was the father of a race In Genesis chapter 12, verse 2, the Lord appeared to Abram when he was in the Urachaldees, and he said, I will make of thee a great nation. And so from Abraham, we have a nation of peoples. We have the Jewish people who are Abraham's descendants. Abraham is the father of a religion. When you study Exodus chapter 3, verse 6, God revealed himself as he spoke to Moses and said , I am the God of thy father Abraham. A religion of Judaism. He was the founding father, a patriarch, if you will, of of this uh particular, we'll call it a religion. But there's something that's emphasized here that I believe is most important, and that Abraham is a father of those who have a relationship with God. In 2 Chronicles chapter 20, verse 7, Abraham is called God's friend forever. Abraham, thy friend, forever. Abraham just did not found a religion. Abraham was not just the founder of a race of peoples. Abraham was the founder of those who have a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. He had a relationship. You say, preacher, you said the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you remember what Jesus said about Abraham? Abraham saw my day and rejoiced. Now I don't know all that that means, and I've not yet found the bottom of that great truth, but I do know this. He saw Jesus coming. And the faith that Abraham exercised was in the coming Messiah. He said, Lord, I know you're coming. You told Adam and Eve. That I will uh send a deliverer, I will send seed. And and I believe that Abraham, by God's uh intervention in Revelation, was able to look down the long corridors of time and he could see the fact that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, would be born. And so Abraham, in a very real sense, is a father, he star he's a a beginning of a long line that would follow. But I want you to notice something else that's said here in Romans 4, that Abraham had faith. And this is the most notable truth about Abraham. Have you noticed when you read the Bible that when it wants to emphasize faith, when the scriptures want to declare faith, it talks about Abraham, the faith of Abraham? Hebrews 11, Abraham's given a big portion. And a lot of sp attention is put on Abraham. Why? Because Abraham had real faith. Abraham had the kind of faith that believed that God is and that he's a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. That's the kind of faith that he had. You say, what kind of faith did Abraham have? Well, I want you to notice what it says here in verse 3. Of Romans chapter 4. For what saith the Scripture, Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. Can I say this morning that Abraham had real faith? Had a faith that was real. Notice he did not just believe in God, he believed God. That's a whole different sort of thing. He did not just believe in God, he believed God. He believed that God is. He believed that God is, as I said already, a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him. He had a very real faith. He had a faith that brought him into a relationship with God. Now, you remember when the Lord came down and was going to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah, he had a conversation with his companion travelers from heaven, the other angels, and he he said, you know, I I I'm gonna tell Abraham what I'm gonna do. I'm not gonna keep this from him He had a relationship with him. Then I want you to notice that Abraham's faith was rewarded. Look what it says : it was counted unto him for righteousness. The reward that Abraham received as a result of his faith was righteousness. That word counted is a banker's term. It was accounted. In other words, there was something put on his account. It was deposited into his account. It was attributed to him. Not because of what Abraham did, but because of the one in whom Abraham believed. Because Abraham was declared righteous before Abraham ever did anything that the Lord told him to do. It was counted unto him to righteous. When did he believe? He believed down in the Eurychaldes. He believed when the Lord said, Abraham, come out, come out from your father, your kindred, come out, and I'll make you a great nation. He believed there, and it was the moment that he believed God counted that faith unto him for righteousness. I'm trying to emphasize that for this reason. Here's what the Bible says. With the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. It is faith in the Lord Jesus that saves. It is not the prayers we pray. It is not the lives we lead. It is not the church we join. It is not the spiritual exercises we perform. It is simple faith in the Lord Jesus Christ that saves you to the uttermost. Isn't that a wonderful thing? That means an invalid on their deathbed could believe and be saved. That means an individual could Who just simply trust. I mean, in the fleeting moments of their life, the very last breaths of their life, they can believe and be born again. You know why? Because it is by faith. We are saved by faith. I want you to notice it was rewarded with righteousness, but it went on to be revealed in transformation. And so there's a large part of this chapter that talks about, well, beginning here in verse number 11, and he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness. of the faith which he had, yet being uncircumcised, that he might be the father of all them that believe, though they be not circumcised, that righteousness might be imputed unto them also Let me just quickly say that the revelation of his faith in the Lord, the outward workings would follow the faith that he exercised in the Lord. It was a very real thing. It was not until Abraham, we read about it here in Genesis chapter 17 Uh it was not until Abraham was was up in years that he actually followed through and and had the right of circumcision uh uh placed upon himself, mark upon himself. And what I'm trying to say is that real faith cannot be hidden. It will be revealed. You can't hide true faith. The old gospel hall preachers of Ireland, Northern Ireland, that used to come and preach in the Maritimes would say, you can't hide it long and you can't fake it long. The reality is if you're really saved, you can't hide it. If you're not saved, you can't fake it for very long. Both are impossible. If you really are saved, somebody said it's like getting a good case of the measles or the mumps, it will come out on you somewhere And you will know for sure that you're his. And so Abraham had a faith that was revealed. Abraham's faith was not the closet kind. Abraham's faith was not the faith that could just quickly be covered up and hidden away. It was very real, and the realness of that faith, you look at the steps that he took When he left the Uracaldes. We were talking about him in Sunday school this morning and talking about how he lived looking for a city whose builder and maker is God. As he wandered about, and I don't think he was looking for a city down here, because he knew there was a city up yonder. And he was looking for that, he was anticipating that. He lived as a pilgrim and a stranger, knowing this world was not his home. All of that was by faith. His going out into a country. The Lord said, I will show thee, a country that I will show thee. He took steps not knowing where he was going. You say, how do you do that? You do that following a God who does know where he's going. He may have taken steps, he didn't know where he was going, but God certainly knew where he was going. And God took him to where he was to be, and God showed him that everlasting possession of the land that he gave him. I'm talking about Abraham's faith. Abraham's faith was a remarkable faith. And by the way, Abraham's faith was a very familiar faith. He said, what do you mean by that? You notice how the scripture says he hoped against hope? Verse 18 of the text. Who against hope believed in hope, that he might become the father of many nations according to that which was spoken, so shall thy seed be. And being not weak in faith, He considered not his own body now dead when he was about a hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. And he staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God. I want you to notice that Abraham had a faith that was very real, something you can identify with. God made promises that on a human level are impossible to believe. Abraham, you're going to have a son. Lord, I'm a hundred. And Sarah's not too far behind. So how can we have a child? What do you Well he did say let Ishmael live before you Lord, there's just no way this can't happen now. Here's Ishmael. He's here. He's been born. This looks like the plan to me. Why not let him be? And the Lord said, no, he's not the one. In other words, God was reminding Abraham that though his faith, and I love God's take on Abraham's faith, if you said, Abraham, do you have strong faith? I don't think Abraham would have said, I have strong faith. Because Abraham had doubts he battled. And he had difficulties that he encountered. But when God looked at Abraham, he said he had a faith that staggered not. See, God's estimation is often much greater, much more merciful, much more gracious than our own estimation. And thank the Lord for that. But again, we see Abraham's faith. Then would you quickly notice with me as I'm making my way through the introduction to my message this morning, Abraham's findings. What did Abraham find? What did he discover on this walk with the Lord? He found, number one, that righteousness comes by faith. Verse number nine says, Comeeth this blessedness then upon the circumcision only, or upon the uncircumcision also? For we say that faith was reckoned to Abraham for righteousness. If you'll remember last Sunday morning we were talking about what it takes to get into heaven And what it takes to get into heaven is righteousness. And what we do not have innately, and what we do not have individually, is righteousness. We do not have it. My Bible says that all of my righteousnesses are as filthy rags. All of the goodness I could muster for a lifetime And put in one great big pile is a a pile of filthy, dirty rags that smell in the eyes of God and are not acceptable. So I've got to have something better. There must be something greater, and there is. It's called the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And we get that righteousness by faith. Friend, if you and I lift one finger to help God, it's no longer by faith. If you and I think that we contribute one little measure of something to our salvation It's no longer by faith. In fact, he says that if if it was by works, then Abraham could glory and say, look what I did. And if salvation was something you could do, there would be no glorying in the Lord Jesus Christ. If salvation, see, sometimes you say, Well, preacher, you do you know where you're at? I know where I'm at. And I know whom I'm among. But I also know that oftentimes we get in our minds that somehow or another we need to help the Lord. It's like when my son was little and he'd be helping me, he really wasn't helping me. Sometimes he was underfoot, you know. Right? You know what I'm talking about. I mean I'm glad to have him underfoot, not now. He's bigger than my foot. But when he was underfoot little like that, he was he was he thought he'd be help he'd you ought to see him trying to carry wood. He'd helped me roll the wheelbarrow. And when we'd roll that wheelbarrow, he'd get between me and the stage of the arms of the wheelbarrow. And he'd put his little arms up there and he'd sweat and grunt and I mean he'd turn red And I'm thinking, he ain't picking up nothing. I don't know what he's doing. I mean he was really moving her. And and and we'd go in the house and he'd take his little snowsuit off and he'd say, Mom, we worked hard. We need something to eat You know, he was always ready. He said, We gotta eat something. We've been working hard. I'm thinking that little fella couldn't he didn't lift nothing. But in his mind, in his mind, he was contributing Now listen to me. There are people who think they're contributing. Lord, I'm I'm I I I'm holding out, I'm holding on. Lord, Lord, I'm doing this, I'm doing that, I've prayed, I'm I'm a member of a church, I'm doing my good deeds, I'm doing this, that, and And beloved, hear me please that not one ounce of our contribution saves It's faith alone and Christ alone that saves us to the full. You say, preacher, that means I can do nothing. Exactly. That means all you and I can do is come to the Lord Jesus, stripped of all effort, stripped of all righteousness, and acknowledge our helplessness, and let Him save us by mercy and grace. It is by faith alone. Abraham found out righteousness comes by faith. But not only that, he found the riches of promises. Look in verse 13. For the promise that he should be the heir of the world. Now, wait a minute. The Lord gave him a promise about a land, a possession. Paul said in Romans 4, he's the heir of the world. Look at this rich promise. Was not to Abraham or to his seed through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. For if they which are of the law be heirs, faith is made void and the promise made of none effect. Do you know what Abraham learned? That riches come through promises. Not material riches, but spiritual blessings. The Bible says we have been blessed with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places. You see, there's a wealth. That only faith can access. I I don't know how to put it other than to say this. Probably everybody here uses a debit card, right? I mean I I I don't know too many people that carry cash anymore. You don't hardly see it anymore. But we carry that debit card. And with that debit card is a um PIN number, your personal PIN. And you could drop that debit card and lose it or whatever, and somebody come along. Let's say John hits up and it falls out of his pocket and And uh Brother Mark comes by and he picks it up and he says, I'm gonna go use this now. Me and Miss Connie are gonna have us a good lunch today. And he takes it and when he gets up there and gets ready to use it, the little screen comes up and it says, Enter pin. Like so. Oh boy. Now John's a if John's a good Baptist, his pen 's probably 1611. Alright? Well yeah, you better go change it if that's the case. But anyway And and he tried no, no, that doesn't work. And what he's going to discover, he might have the card in his hand, but he doesn't have access to the account. And friend, the access that you and I have to the wealth of God, if you will, to the riches of the promises only comes through the pen of faith. It's F-A-I-T-H, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. There are riches of prophets. And Abraham learned that As Abraham walked and lived on this earth, he realized that trusting the promises of God brings a wealth of possessions our way. Not materially, but spiritually, that are immeasurable, and look, you you cannot put a money value upon them. Abraham, as we're taught here, and verse number 15 teaches us the reason of the law. Look in verse 15, because the law worketh wrath. For where no law is, there is no transgression. Abraham is to teach us, though he lived 430 some years before the law. Abraham is to teach us that God gave us a law. Why? To show us our transgression. You see, a sinner doesn't know he's a sinner until he realizes he's broken the law of God. You cannot understand the value, uh brother uh uh uh uh Stephen uh he he pastored the uh church that Bunyan did. I still remember this years ago at a pastor's fellowship, he pulled out an insulin pen and he said, Now how many of you men want a shot of insulin? And we're thinking, boy, this Englishman's lost his mind. And he said, no, really, this stuff is good. It i it'll help you be healthy and And he started walking around and that bird, he got down in where the people were, and he was walking real close to us with that pen. I'm like, buddy, I appreciate illustration. But I don't want you jabbing me, you know, stay away from me. I scooted in, Charlie. I got away from the edge. And he's walking around, and he said, Oh, here's the problem. He said, you don't know the value of insulin until your body doesn't make it. And you and I can't appreciate the value of Christ until we see that we have no righteousness and that we are sinners and lawbreakers and need to be forgiven and cleansed. It is then that we readily run and recognize that the Lord Jesus saves. The law was given to reveal the sin of sinful man. God's dealing with Abraham shows us the gospel very clearly. Then I want you to notice Abraham's fruit. First, we see the reality of Abraham's faith here in verse number 17. The Bible says, as it is written, I've made thee a father of many nations. Before him whom he believed, even God who quickeneth the dead and calleth those things which be not as though they were. You know what he realized? That before he had a son, he had a promise. Before he had a possession, he had a promise. And that promise, if I can say it like this, that promise was as good as the possession Now you and I haven't been to heaven. You and I who are saved. If you know the Lord Jesus as your Savior, you've got a promise. Here's the promise. If I go, I'll come again. To receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. That's all you've got's a promise. You've never looked on those shores, you've never walked down those streets. You've never seen that place. You've never entered that area. You know nothing of it other than the promise. But know this, Abraham will teach you something. Abraham will teach you that a promise is as good as a possession. If God has made a promise, beloved, He will fulfill it. And so a promise is as good as a possession. It's like the old brother I used to visit with would say, I'm as good for heaven as if it's already there. Although, and and that's not being bragg uh being being uh bragging or or being proud, that's just resting on the promise. The Bible tells me that if I believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, I have eternal life. And so that promise is as good as a possession. And Abraham teaches us that reality. Abraham also had a refuge. Look in verse 18. Who against hope believed in hope that he might become the father of many nations, according to that which was spoken, so shall thy seed be. And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead when he was about a hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God Look at verse twenty-one, and being fully persuaded that what he had promised, he was able also to perform. Do you know what Abraham had? He had a refuge. He had a place where he could hide. Where was it? The promise of God. And beloved, listen, if you're a Christian and you've trusted the Lord Jesus Christ, you have a refuge. All the doubts and fears and discouraging things of life, you can hide in the Word of God. You can hide on the promise. You can get under the cliff. of the truth of scripture and c be kept out of the storms when doubt, discouragement. Listen, when I I believe and by the way, I don't have time to do it. I'm trying to get to the message. We're in the introduction part But as we think about Abraham now, I want you to see something here. Abraham had a refuge. How many times did God come and reiterate his promise? Go back and study it. And every time God said the same thing. He hadn't changed his mind. Lord, I'm getting old here. You'll have a son. Now, Lord, I'm on the brink of not being able to. That's all right. You'll have a son. Well Lord, we're way over here now and there's no chance. You still gonna have a son. But what about Sarah This it just can't happen now, Lord. We're moving further and further, and what does God do? He constantly comes and makes a promise and takes him back to the promise and repo repeats the promise. And reiterates the promise, and Abraham said, I'm just going to hide in the promise. I can't figure this out. I can't understand it. God, I don't, I can't wrap my head around it. But here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to trust the word. Christian, understand something. You don't have to understand it all to believe it all. You don't have to comprehend. If you're waiting on that, it's never going to happen. You'll never understand it all, comprehend it all. But oh beloved, let me encourage you this morning, believe it all. Believe every word of it, believe every sentence, believe every statement, because it's all the precious true word of God. Believe the promises of God. Let that be the refuge for your soul. A lot of people are changing their theology because of the circumstances they see in the world. And there are people there that there's some brothers I love that that that that say now, the Lord's not coming and we're going to live through the tribulation And and and there's going to be no millennial rain, and it's we're just going to go from here to there. And and they're trying to figure all this out based on what they understand and what they see And by the way, listen, dear friend, if God said something very simply, believe it very simply. If the statement is plain and clear, believe it plain and clear. Don't try to complicate it by your understanding. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. Don't try to complicate the truth by by trying to understand it in your own human reason. Believe what God said. I don't know how all this thing of the rapture is going to take place in the sense that God 's going to raise the dead, and immediately after the dead are raised in Christ, He's going to call us up into the air. And I hear some fanciful speculation on that subject, but I'll be honest with you, that blows my little puny brain. When you try to stop and fathom that what's going to happen, the Bible says in the moment, in the twinkling of an eye, how God's going to do it, here's what I do know. It's a promise I hold dear. It's a promise, listen, we have stood around here recently especially, we've stood at many a fresh dug grave. And my friend, we have stood in many a place where hearts have been broken and eyes are full of tears and people are weeping and mourning. But isn't it a grand thing to stand there knowing that there's going to come a day when the last trumps will sound and the dead in Christ will rise first? That's not pie in the sky, that's a promise in the Word And you can find refuge in the Word. Listen, the Bible says, I'll never leave thee nor forsake thee. Many a dear Christian. Many a dear Christian walks through a dark valley where they feel abandoned. They feel like God's a million miles away. I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand, because if you're honest, everybody would say I felt like God wasn't there. I have felt like God couldn't be found. I prayed and it didn't seem like he answered. I I trusted him, but it didn't seem to do no good I tried to uh look for the Lord, if you will. And how many times did David say, I looked on my left and I looked on my right, and I couldn't find him? And and Job and so many others, and so that's the experience of many of God's people But we have a promise. When we cannot see the Lord, we can trust in the Lord. When we do not feel his nearness, we know he is, because he said he would be. He said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. I'm talking about this faith that Abraham had, and the fruit of that faith was a refuge in the Word of God. And then he was rewarded. Look at verse 22. And therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness. You see, the reward of his faith was not a son, but it was a savior. Righteousness. The very thing Abraham needed most was the righteousness of God. It was as if, and this is what happened, God took righteousness out of his account and put it in Abraham's And you know the wonder this thing is? God can do that and not diminish his account. Now if you go around transferring money, pretty soon you're gonna run out of money if if what you're transferring from, you're not putting in. Right? What is it the fellow used to say, if your outflow exceeds your income, it will be your downfall? You've got to be aware of that, but not the Lord. Though millions have come, there's still room for one. Though millions have come and had righteousness put on their account God's as righteous today as he ever was. He's still imputing, still imputing, still giving righteousness to those who put their faith in the Lord Jesus. I'm gonna be honest with you, I don't know why people don't trust the Lord. I can't understand why we would try to work our way when there's no way to work our way there. I don't understand why we try to do things that we think will get us through and think will get us there and knowing that the scripture clearly says, believe on the Lord Jesus. You say, But preacher, I've got to do something. You know. I d are are you like this? I can't just sit and watch somebody do something. I want to help 'em. It's it's hard for me to watch people do things. It drives me up a wall. And especially if they tell me now I don't need your help. There's something in me says, Yeah, you do. You know, I I really want to help you real bad. You know And you want to help out. And you want to contribute. You want to be a part. You don't want to just be a silent observer, a spectator. You want to be a part. Beloved, let me say this when it comes to salvation, in a very real sense, we cannot take part. Salvation is by faith alone in Christ alone. I want to remind you of something here, and as we come to the message, and I'll be brief. Don't have a heart attack. It's six minutes to twelve, and I'm going to hurry. But here's what all this about Abraham is for. I read it already. Here's what it's all for. Look at verse 23. Now it was not written for his sake alone. that it was imputed to him. There's a reason God did this. There's a reason Abraham lived like Abraham lived. There's a reason God waited Like he waited with Abraham. There's a reason that that Abraham's example is repeated again in Romans chapter 4. And can I just say this? The reason is you. You're the reason. The Lord wants you to understand very clearly that like Abraham, you've got to believe God. That you've got to trust him. That there's salvation and no other. And then I want you to notice he again makes this statement about righteousness. He says in verse 24, but for us also to whom it shall be imputed, if we believe on him that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead. He said, I want you to know just like Abraham had righteousness put in his account because he believed God If you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you believe the fact that Christ died for your sin, was buried, and rose again the third day, when you put your faith in Him, God does for you what He did for Abraham. God gives to you what he gave to Abraham. Now this this is a marvel. That Abraham, this Old Testament patriarch, had the righteousness of God imputed to his account, placed on his account. His righteousness. He did not have to pay for his sin. His sin was already paid for. You mean that can be mine? I can have that. I can be as righteous as Abraham. By the way, listen to me. There are no degrees of righteousness. You're either righteous or unrighteous. Let me say it like this: you're either saved or lost. There's no degrees of salvation. We sometimes think there are, but there's no almost saved to be almost saved and still be lost. There's no almost uh right with God, there's either right with God or not right with God. It's an either-or. It's not a degree. There's no degrees of righteousness. And the righteousness that's perfect in Christ that was given to Abraham is ours who believe. Now again, let me state what the scripture states. It says very clearly, if we believe on him that raised up Jesus, our Lord from the dead, who was delivered for our offenses, and was raised again for our justification. So what's the requirement here to believe? I'm afraid sometimes we complicate the gospel message and make people think they have to jump through hoops to get in. One requirement. Believe. Not just believe in your head. Oh, oh, I you know, I believe there's a God. No. Believe on the Lord Jesus. Look what it said. In that last verse, it says, who was delivered for our offenses and was raised again for our justification. I'm trying to make it plain and help Lord help me here. That's putting all your eggs in one basket. That's putting all your confidence in one person. That's trusted exclusively, totally, completely in what Christ did, nothing else. For many years. As a boy, I struggled with this thing. I heard a man erroneously say, if you can't remember what you prayed when you said asked Jesus to save you, you're not saved. Say it from the pulpit. One to get people to come. I don't know what why he said it, but he said it. He said, I if you cannot remember what you prayed, then you're not saved. And I couldn't remember what I prayed. I was eight years old when I asked the Lord to save me. I could not remember what I prayed, but I still remembered who I prayed to. Now listen to me, there's a whole lot of things we say. Well, did I say the sinner's prayer? Which one? You know that one on the back of the track. Can I say this? There's no salvation in about a half a dozen sentences that you quote off the back of a piece of paper. Please understand that. It's not that I I repeat some like magic you know mantra like it's a and you know what we've taken we've taken that little prayer and we've made it we've made it a lucky charm. When I was a little boy, everybody in school wanted to carry a rabbit's foot. We were hillbillets, that's what we did. We all carried rabbits' feet. I had one, kept in my pocket, a little white one, you know. And they you know what they said to all those mountain people, they said, carrying a rabbit's foot's lucky Now it never computed with me. I thought if this rabbit's foot brings luck, it'd still be on that rabbit and he'd still be running in the woods. It was his undoing. Me carrying it around just don't seem like it benefited nobody. And we take that little prayer and we say, now, I said that, I said it word for word. I said it earnestly. I said it honestly. Now listen, you say, preacher, can a person get saved saying that? Yeah, they can. If they believed in their heart. You understand what I'm trying to say? We say, well, now now preacher, I cried a whole lot, because that's got to be a requirement. Well you may have. But shedding tears don't save anybody. If that be the case, Judas would be, he went out and wept. But he found no place of repentance. I'm talking about the reality that faith alone in Christ alone saves, it's not my doing, it's not my prayers, it's not my weeping, it's not my memory. I'm going to tell you something, there may be a day come where our memory's completely gone, as we've watched many dear people encounter. But listen, you may forget him, but he won't forget you. Thank God for that. He will not forget his own. The Lord remembereth them that are his. Oh, beloved, hear me this morning, please. Faith alone and Christ alone is enough for salvation. God said, believe on him that was crucified. He was delivered for our offenses. Was raised again for our justification. Faith alone in Christ alone will not only save you, it'll satisfy you. It'll settle your eternity. It'll secure you in the hands of God and put a song in your heart. Faith alone. Nothing good have I done. Nothing in my hand I bring. I thought about that song. Simply to the cross I cling. You know what that's saying? That's saying, Lord, I'm counting on you. Just you. I've got no strength. My dad got older, his legs got weak, and he just had very little strength. In fact, Putner had none. My son took him fishing and he got down the creek and he couldn't get up He just couldn't get his legs up. His old legs were just worn out. His heart was giving way and his heart was weak and he didn't know it, but he couldn't he didn't have enough blood in his legs to pump to where he could just lift his legs and And get up and he frustrated and my son walked over there and got him by the seat of his britches. And he picked daddy up. He didn't weigh hardly nothing then. Dad he picked daddy up and set him on the bank. And I'll never forget Dad called me and that bothered him terrible that he had to get help. But he said, son, he picked me up like I was nothing. And just set me on the bank. Hear me now. Salvation is God reaching down, picking you up. Because you have no strength. As long as you come to God trying, you'll never be saved. But you come trusting. Eugenia. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ was the declaration in the old prison of the Philippian jailer. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. That man was trembling. The whole jailhouse had been shook and Doors had opened and man things were happening around there he had never seen before. And his cry was, What must I do to be saved? And the only thing anybody can do to be saved is to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ And at that moment you'll be saved. At that moment. Oh dear friend, if you're not saved, it's not God's fault. If you're not saved today, I've got good news for you. You can be. By faith alone. Lay your works down. Lay your religion down. Lay your efforts down. Lay all your trying down. And just Come trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, who paid your sin that in fool when he shed his blood on Calvary's heel. They buried him, and three days later he rose again. He's a mighty Savior. He's a living Savior, and he will save you today. If you're in this auditorium or listening to this broadcast and you've never trusted Jesus Christ, I'm not asking you to join a church I'm not asking you to come and be baptized in the water of the baptismal pool here at Marinatha Baptist Church. I'm asking you to put your faith In the person of Jesus Christ, and find in him a full and free salvation. And if you are saved, dear friend , What a refuge you have in Christ. How precious the Lord ought to be to us. What stands between me and hell? It's not because I'm a Baptist. Because there's a lot of them there already. And a lot more heading there. It's not because I'm a preacher. There's some of them in hell too. And others head in there as well. It's not goodness, it's not good works, it's not morality. I'll tell you what it is. It's the sacrifice of Jesus Christ that stands between me and hell. And if you're saved, that's true of you too. How precious Jesus ought to be to our soul. He's really all we got. But thank God he's all we need. Simply trust him. Hey, are you girl all you Davis girls still in here? Come up here and let's would you sing that again for our invitation? Just trust him. That's all. Just trust him. You guys come, would you stand with me and bow your heads and less