This morning to Philippians chapter number three. Philippians chapter number three, and I'm going to revisit the verse that we looked at on last Sunday. That's verse number 10, Philippians chapter number 3, and verse number 10, and I'm going to invite you to stand with me if you would, please, as we read God's precious word. I'm only going to read the one verse. I hope you'll take the time to read the chapter because there's a lot of things that that Paul says we need to know that are in relationship to this particular verse. But I want to highlight this truth. Notice what it says in verse number 10, that I may know him. And the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death. Now remember the key to this verse, and I will say this, the key to life is to know him. If you've lived without meeting him or knowing him, you've missed the whole point. You've really missed the whole point of life. The Bible tells us very clearly it's appointed unto men once to die. And after this the judgment. And the truth of the matter is, is that without the Lord Jesus, as Mrs. Dow was singing, that Great Judgment Day is going to be a terrible place. But what a joy it is to know, if you know the Lord Jesus, you can say with Paul, I know him. And when you know him, what a what a joy it is to to think that when I leave this world absent from the body present with the Lord, that I may know him. Father, help us now this morning, please. Would you speak to us like only you can have your will and way, and we'll give you the glory. We stand in need, Lord, of thy help. Both the preacher and the hearer. And I just pray you'll do again for us what we can't do for ourselves. We ask these things in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated I want to remind you that in this letter, this little letter, four chapters, one of the smaller letters that the Apostle Paul wrote. We have some of the most personal testimony that has been recorded of and by the Apostle Paul He bears his heart here. He talks to these people from the very depths of who he is. And we learn from this letter just what made Paul tick, what what it was that that really drove him and made him the man that he was. I believe that in our New Testament, the Apostle Paul is probably the very best Christian we know about. And uh you can study his life. I mean, what a change. He was a religious zealot. He was a persecutor of Christians. He was someone that was uh just a uh a madman until he met the Lord Jesus. And when he became a Christian, when he got saved, he began to preach the very Jesus that he persecuted. And he began to tell of his power to save. And that is exactly I think the beauty and wonder of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I want to remind you something this morning. The church is not a museum for stuffy old perfect Christians. The church is a hospital for saints or sinners who need the help of God in their lives. And by the way, just look around you and you'll see everybody here is somebody who needs the help of the Lord in their life. And the Apostle Paul is a living testimony. He's a living example of an individual whom God did great things in his life. You say, preacher, can he forgive a murderer? He did Paul. Can he forgive a blasphemer? Can he forgive a man like Paul who hated Christians and hated Christ and chased them down to the point of death? You better believe it. The Bible tells us that the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. I'm telling you, there's not a sin the blood can't cover or remove. There's not a soul so lost that Jesus can't save. His power is mighty. He can reach from the uppermost to the guttermost and save men and women. That's the power of Jesus Christ. No wonder Paul said when he marched towards Rome, he said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth. And I'm glad to report to you, my friend. No one's too far, too bad, too gone, too messed up for the Lord Jesus Christ to save. His blood is the answer. And Paul, after getting saved had one goal. And that's what he lived for. He had one ambition, one drive. It was it was the one thing that he wanted to do. It was the one thing that it was the biggest thing. It was the biggest thing in his life. And you say, what was it? It was this that he might know him. He said, I want to know him. I know him, but I really want to know him. I know him in a saving way. I know he's my savior. Now I hope you can say that this morning. And by the way, according to the Bible In 1 John chapter 5, we're told, I believe it's verse 12 or 13, These things have I written unto you that you may know. You know you have eternal life. Salvation is not something you hope for or guess at and you know sort of a luck of the draw. You say, well I hope I'm a Christian. Well, there's there's good news for you. If you're in that state, you can know you're a Christian. And it's not a statement of pride. It's not something that we're Walking around here with our thumbs and our spiritual suspenders saying, oh, we're Christians. Oh no. We know we're saved because we know the Savior. Salvation is a no-so matter. It's something you know. And my dear friend this morning, I hope you know. You can know, but Paul said, I know him. Yes, I know him in a saving way, but I want to know him in a personal way. I mean, I really want to know him. I'm not content just knowing about him. How many of you know you can know about something and not really know that particular thing or person? You can know about them. You can uh I I used I think this illustration last week. You can uh be married to someone, you know them. But you give yourself a few decades and then you really know them. Amen. Have you ever been married more than 20 years? I bet you know stuff now you didn't know 20 years ago. And you'll learn things all along the journey. You'll learn that person. You'll know something about them. But I'm glad to report to you there's a God in heaven you can know on the same level. You can know just as personally. And uh the I believe that eternity is going to be one continual discovery or unveiling of who the Lord is. How are you and I listen, you say, well, when I get to heaven I'll know everything. I don't believe that. I don't believe that. I know the Bible says we'll know as we're known, and the Bible says when we see him we shall be like him. But my friend, he's God And listen, the understanding of who God is, why it'll take an eternity to discover just all that he is and who that he is. But that's going to be one of the joys of heaven is knowing him. But let me ask you something this morning. Are you on that that path, are you on that pursuit? Are you after the knowledge of him? Do you want to know him? You're here this morning for some reason. I uh would uh like to assume that everyone is here today because you've got some sort of desire to know the Lord. There's something stirring in your heart, some desire you you you want to know something about him Uh man, this is the first day the sun has been shining in I don't know how many days. Uh too long. Amen. I agree with you, sir. I I uh I tell you, I don't count 'em. I when we lived in Nova Scotia, I did one winter, and I counted thirty-eight days that I didn't see the sun and I quit because it was taking me down. And I don't know about you, but these four or five, six, whatever days it's been since the sun has been out, uh it it's it's nice to see the sun shining. And I thank the Lord for it. And you came out of that in here for some reason. And I'm just saying that that there ought to be a desire in the heart, especially of God's people, to know the Lord. Christianity is not a matter of just a religious circus. We don't just go through a uh a merry-go-round of of spiritual observations. Well I'm in church at this time and I read my Bible at this time and I sing a hymn at this time and I pray at this time and I I do all I touch all the bases. I touch all the points And make sure that I do all those things. I I'm here to tell you, friend, that's not Christianity. Lost people can do that People that don't know the Lord can do that. I mean you can be faithful to church and not be saved. You can read a Bible and and not be saved. You can pray prayers and not be saved. You can sing hymns and not be saved. Friend, listen, salvation is not a matter of what you do. Salvation is something Jesus did for you on the cross He paid the debt in full. He finished the work. Salvation's something you enter into by faith, by grace, the grace of God. And friend, when you get born again from above, You immediately have privilege to walk with God and know God in a personal way. You know him. You don't have to just be content knowing about him, you know him. So we see in our text, we preached this last week, the personal relationship. Paul said that I may know him. That was the biggest thing in his life. What's the biggest thing in your life this morning? Do you know the Lord? Are you desiring to know him more? You know to know the Lord is to want to know him more. Do you know the Lord Jesus is attractive to sinners? He draws them to himself. He doesn't repel. He's he he he's not now I feel sorry because some people have met Christians who were repulsive And because of that, they have no desire to know anything about the Lord. Can I say to you, don't hold anything you know about a Christian against the Lord Jesus? Their repulsiveness is not his fault He's attractive. You know, it amazed me as I studied the life of the Lord Jesus how many people wanted to be around him and what kind of people wanted to be around him. You ever studied that? Now the scribes and Pharisees hated him. Even though there were some that wanted to be around him, and the only reason they wanted to be around him was to find fault with him. They wanted to find something that they could dislike, or some reason to disbelieve And so they searched him, they put him under the microscope, and they looked and they looked and they looked, and for three and a half years his public ministry went on. Uh they had to come to the same conclusion that Pilate did. I find no fault in this man. He's perfect But boy, did you ever notice how the sinners were drawn to Jesus? Did you ever notice that crowd that seemed to be attracted to him? Those individuals, you remember on one occasion, a woman washed the feet of Jesus, and those scribes and Pharisees said, well, if he knew who was touching him. They were indignant that such a woman would would show such love for the Lord Jesus. But may I remind you that the reason she loved him is because he loved her and had forgiven her of her sin. And she had found in him the answer for the longings of her heart. She had found in him the solution to the great struggles of her of her life and and and I'm here to tell you I'm not trying to sell you church I'm not trying to sell you Baptist I'm trying to tell you there's a savior named Jesus who loves and died for sinners and cleanses from all sin, and he's the answer your hungry heart's looking for. He's just what you're looking for. I say that on the basis of the fact that he saved my soul. And many of you sitting here could say this morning, he saved me too. But that crowd that was attracted to Jesus, they were drawn to him. There was something in him that that answered that deep longing of their heart. The woman at the well My she she was looking for something. Man, she had uh been through all sorts of things. The Bible says she had had uh five husbands, I believe it was, and and the man she was with at this point was not And she was just looking , man, nothing satisfied her. But yet when she met Jesus at the well, she found something that satisfied her. And you know, it's interesting. The conversation that they had is recorded in the Bible, and the only thing Jesus said about her is you've had five husbands. The man you're with now is not the one. And uh she went back, and do you know what she said? I found a man that told me all things ever I did Well, he didn't stand there and lit, but what he did is he expose that that nerve in her heart. He exposed what was really going on in her heart. I've heard people say that when they got saved they were sitting in church and and uh I'm thinking now of a brother who gave testimony And boy, he got mad at his wife because when he went to church, he said that preacher preached about him and preached to him and said everything about him, and he was sure his wife had been telling But you know what that was? That preacher didn't know who he was from nobody. That's the Spirit of God doing his work. And God makes himself very personal, very real. And Paul said, I want to know him. I'm not content just knowing about him. I want to know him. That personal relationship became the driving passion of Paul's heart. It became the directing principle of his life. He said, I'm not going to let anything get in my life that will keep me from knowing him. And uh I mentioned this, it was a delightful possibility that you and I can know the Lord. And I hope we don't ever get over the wonder of that. That we can know the Lord. When you got up this morning and that sun rose, i the God of heaven orchestrated all that. He put it together. He's the one that called for it and keeps it in motion and and listen all the laws of of nature and science that we attribute to these things, understand there's a God in heaven who wrote them and who initiated them and who orchestrates them. He's the God who's in charge. And yet I know that God. I can know him. That's a delightful possibility. Then on Sunday evening we looked at the potent reality that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. And what a demonstration of power the resurrection of Jesus Christ was and still is. There's no greater power. There's no greater power. Now you've seen some powerful things. You have witnessed some mighty power, power that it's almost hard to imagine. A brother here invited us to see some demonstration down at the proving grounds. And I'm telling you what, when they fire things and you're so far away and you feel it inside of you, and you feel it before you hear it, I mean that's power. And I'm sure that's just a small measure of the power that's available. But I'm here to tell you, my friend, that there is a power that is greater than the bombs and explosives that governments have amassed. There is a power that raises dead men to life. It's the power of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And when he got out of the grave, the Bible says he got out by the authority of his own name. declared, I am he that was dead, but behold I'm alive forevermore, and I hold the keys of death, hell, and the grave. My friend, that is power. In fact, he has power to kill and power to make alive. That's power. And Paul said, I want to know that power. Why? Why did he want to know that power? He didn't want to wield that power himself for some uh personal use. He wanted that power working in his life. That power is a divine provision. God's made a a a way for it because listen, when you get saved you need power. How many of you have figured this out? You can't be a Christian without his help. You understood that you, I mean, listen, you might have all the desires of your heart. I want to please God. I'm going to do this. And you know what we often think? If I was just more determined. If I was just more determined, if I just try harder, if I grit my teeth just a little bit more, if I just put a little oomph behind it, I'll be a better Christian. And how many of you try harder and do worse? How many times have you somebody said we turn over new leaves and find out that they're just as rotten on one side as they were the other? The reality is that you don't have the power. The leopard can't change his spots. My friend, a man a man can't change his nature, but there's a God in heaven who can. There's power, there's resurrection power. Paul didn't go out preaching simply because he was trying to do better. Paul went out preaching because he was made a new man in Christ Jesus And the Bible still says, I don't care what people say, the Bible still says, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. And I'm here to tell you, my friend, if you're not a new creature, you need to get a salvation that comes from Jesus Christ. You may have got a cheap substitute. But I'm here to tell you the salvation Jesus gives makes a new person out of you. He makes a new creature. All through the Bible we're taught this. All through the Bible it's demonstrated Paul didn't go back to killing Christians when he got off his knees on the Damascus Road. Paul didn't go back into Judaism after he got up off his knees. There'd been a fundamental change in his heart. He had a new appetite. He wanted to please the Lord. He had new desires. Now does that mean he was perfect? Absolutely not. But it does mean he was different. He was different. And my friend, the Lord Jesus will make you different. You mark that down. There's a salvation being sold. to a sad, sick, and sin-weary world that says, well, I he'll help you, but it only is going to work in eternity. Well who would want something like that? Let's just be real. Who would want a half salvation? Thank God there's a full and free salvation in Jesus Christ. And he not only delivers from the penalty of sin, one listen, he delivers from the power of sin. You can walk in the fullness of the Spirit of God, and the Spirit of God will enable you to do what only He can do. Had a good friend get saved, Nova Scotia, and uh brother Jack was his name and he was a fighter, a drinker, he was a wicked man, a coal miner, and when he got saved, he went back to that mine and there was a fellow there. And no doubt he was a tool of the devil. But that man walked up and he punched Jack right in the mouth before they started down the work that morning. Now the old Jack would have broke that man's neck. And the old Jack would have cleaned the floor up and threw him out the mining box and been done with him for the day. Brother Jack said, I'll never forget he'd been saved three days, been saved three days. And Brother Jack said , My old nature was still there. But he said it was as if the Lord said, Jack, that was you so many years ago. You were that arrogant, young, cocky, smart elec young man. But now you have me. Don't you feel sorry for him? Jack said before he knew it, he started crying, big old tears running down his And then they thought, man, he's really going to die. Jack's mad enough to cry, this boy's done. And he walked up to him. He called him by name. He said, I want you to know something. He said, had you done that a few days ago? This would not end like this. He said, I'm a Christian now. Jesus saved me. And I want to tell you something, young man. You need Christ too. And he preached the gospel. Now, folks, listen, you don't get that sitting in a class and being trained to be a Christian. You get that because the Spirit of God comes to live in your heart and makes you a brand new person. It's only Jesus living in you that can make you what you ought to be. I feel sorry for you Christians that are trying to do it without Him. And there are people that are saved that are trying to do it without Him. I use the illustration of Brother Jason driving his car and uh not using the motor and not using uh the power that is under the hood. But just simply pushing it, getting out, and then I mean he's a pretty strong man, but here he comes. You imagine Jason coming up old Elkneck Road, up that hill, pushing that car with his family inside, and he gets here and he's sweating and his face is blood red. He says, Phew, I'm glad we got here. Well they got here, but they didn't get here the way they could have got here. Had he had he gotten in the car and turned the ignition switch on or have that thing start, press the button, whatever, and and got the motor going and put it in gear, he would have had power to get here that would have not exhausted his resources And I'm saying, brother, sister, there's power to live for God that won't exhaust your resources because it doesn't depend on your resources. It depends on God's reserves. God's mighty power. There 's a divine provision, there's delivering power, there's a definite purpose so that Christ might live in me. Listen, Christianity is not about you showing off what you can do. Perish the thought It's not about you trying to show how good a Christian you can be. That's self-righteousness. And that's about what we got the most of in Christianity today. A bunch of self-righteous people that are doing the best they can I'm here to tell you, there's better than you can. There's Christ. And when Christ lives in you, it's a demonstration of the living Lord. Brother and sister, hear me this morning. There's power to be had. There's power to be had. Stop playing this game. of Christianity. Stop putting on the garbs of just mirror what you think Christianity looks like. You won't make it long. I've been saved long enough, a whole lot of people started with me, ain't going to finish with me. There's a lot of people that that were flaming examples. I was talking about all those preachers on that pew, and I was thinking through them. Back in my home church, three pews, three long pews, and there were young preachers on every single seat of those three pews. And there's not a half a dozen of them living for God right now. Oh, preacher, that never happened to me. You better smarten up and realize that if God don't help you, it will happen to you. You're done for if Jesus don't come your way and give you power from on high. Oh, the Bible makes it quite clear there is a potent reality. Now, I want you to see this this morning quickly, something that's pleasantly refreshing. That may sound a little odd, but please hear me. The Bible says, Paul said, I want to know him, that I may know him, and the fellowship of his sufferings. You said, Now hold on a minute. How can you have something good come out of suffering? How can there be something refreshing about suffering? Have you noticed how many paradoxes are in the Christian life? Just stop and think about it. My Bible says when I'm weak, I'm strong. That's a paradox. Now, uh I think when I'm strong, I'm strong. When I'm weak, I'm weak. No no. The Bible says when I'm weak, I'm strong. It tells me that when my weakness drives me to his strength, I've got real strength. Real strength. I was moving something the other day and I saw my son pick something up and I thought, you know what, if he can carry that many, I can too. And I did, but I paid for it for two days. Took half a bottle of Advil, had to sleep on a heating pad. I think what happened to me? Something's not good. He had a power I don't. I take a little comfort in the fact one of these days he won't have it either. But that's just life, isn't it, brothers? But there's a paradox in this text. When I'm weak, I'm strong. I sort of like the fact. I sort of like the fact if I can't pick it up, I can say, hey, can you get this for me? Some of you men know what I'm talking about. Hey, buddy, I need your help. Help me a minute. But here's the paradox. Here's another paradox. When we're humbled, we're exalted. My Bible says we come low before him. Humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God that he may exalt you in due time. Well, here's another one. When we suffer, we're refreshed. I want you to see something here in this text real quick, because I think there's a lot of fallacies about Christianity being sold, a lot of lies. And just because somebody speaks it doesn't mean it's true. But there is a design for pain. You'll notice Paul said, I want to know him and the fellowship of his sufferings. Do you know the Bible tells me that my Savior was familiar with suffering? Do you ever see him like that? I'm talking about his life and his ministry. Isaiah 53, 3 says, He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Jesus knows something about suffering. Jesus knows what it's like to suffer, friend. He suffered as he lived in this earth. The Bible says he had nowhere to lay his head. He sat at the well weary. He knew what it was to be hungry His body tasted thirst. Look, he suffered and in his death, he suffered like no man suffered Isaiah said that he he didn't even bear the image of a man as he hung on the cross of Calvary. Friend, Jesus knows something about suffering. One of the worst things you can say to somebody is, I know what you're going through. Because the reality is you probably don't You may think you do. You may have something similar, but the truth is we all walk a unique path, and so you really don't know what that person's going through. But I'll tell you somebody who does, Jesus. He's familiar with suffering. Not only that, if I follow him, it will require suffering. Here's a verse you need to mark in your Bible, Acts 14, 22. This is speaking of the Apostle Paul as they're going on their missionary journeys And he says they confirming the souls of the disciples and exhorting them to continue in the faith, and that we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God. He's not talking about the tribulation, but he is saying tribulation. You know what he's saying? You follow me, you're going to have trouble. How many of you know you got a whole new set of troubles when you got born again? You got an enemy you didn't know you had. You started fighting battles you never fought before. You had you had an opposition that you never felt because listen you were a dead fish floating downstream Now all of a sudden you're alive and you're swimming upstream, so to speak, and you're feeling the resistance. There's a suffering. Listen. This health and wealth message, I know it's appealing. It sounds good. I wish it were true, but it's simply not. How many characters in the Word of God suffered greatly and entered the kingdom with much suffering? Without their head. Bodies not intact. Why? They followed Christ. What was John's crime for being exiled to the Isle of Patmos? For the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ. The word of God. He was being faithful to the Lord and it got him in trouble. Don't think for a minute if you follow God, everything's going to go smooth. There's the fellowship of his sufferings that you must enter into. But aren't you grateful for the sweet fellowship that's found in suffering? Job 42, 5. We read it this morning. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now mine eye seeth thee. See, there's something God's doing in suffering, and that something is revealing Himself. Now, there are some things you know that you don't know. You're sitting here, you say, Well, I know Jesus is, and you fill in the blank, you really don't know that yet. You will. If you walk with him, you will. You may not have had the experience of uh of mourning loss or uh dealing with certain brokenness, and there are things that you'll go through. Brother Billy Kelly, that old mountain preacher, used to say, sometimes it'll feel like God pulls you through a knothole backwards. Well, I don't know what it would be like to be pulled through a knothole backwards, but I think I've felt it a time or two And there's going to be the suffering that comes with following the Lord. And if you follow the Lord, there's going to be a measure of suffering There's going to be a struggle that ensues. There's going to be the difficulties. But yet here's what Job said. Job's on the back end of all that he's gone through. And he said, Lord, I knew about you. I heard about you just up here. I had it all up here. But he said, Now I see you with my eyes. Now I know you for who you are. You see, you can't know he's the lily of the valley until you walk some valleys You can't know that he's a comforter in mourning unless you do some mourning. You can't know that he's the friend that sticketh closer than the brother. Until he's the only friend you got that will stick with you. There are some things you know that you don't know, but if you'll follow the Lord, you'll get to know them. Let me say quickly, there's the desire here for his presence. Paul said, I want to know him, and I want to know the fellowship. Of his sufferings. I want to know that fellowship. I want to know, Lord, that you're with me The Savior's made a promise in Psalm 34, 18. The Bible says the Lord's nigh unto them that are of a broken heart. He gets close to brokenhearted people. Friend, listen, I think sometimes we think God doesn't care about us until we get our act together. And I'm here to tell you, you won't get your act together until the God who does care about you comes near. He's interested in the broken. Suffering draws his attention. How many people in the Bible do we have record of their suffering? Why? Because they got the master's attention. He looked their way. You know, I think sometimes we live in such a world that we don't pay much attention to other people's suffering. The abundance of iniquity has made many grow cold in their love And we see it. We see the effects of sin all around us. We see the degradation that sin brings into people's lives. And you know what we do? We pass coldly by. We're like those in the the illustration or the parable there of the Good Samaritan, and we're like those uh that that Levite and the the scribe, as they just pass by, here's a man beaten up, laying in the ditch, he's bleeding and dying, and they don't have they pass on the other side of the street. They don't have nothing to do with it. Why? 'Cause it's messy. His life's messed up, he's broken. But there was a man who took interest. A Samaritan man And not only did he go get in the ditch with him and pick him up, but he put him on his beast and he carried him to safety and he gave him what he needed and he helped him get get better again. And our Lord was telling us that's exactly what Jesus does. Jesus don't pass by on the far corner. Jesus comes to where you are and helps you with what you need. Why? Because he's familiar with suffering. It don't repel him. It doesn't reject. He's made a promise. He's nigh the broken in heart. The Bible says this, we have the Savior's presence. in our suffering. Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort, who comforteth us in all our tribulation. I believe you ought to read historical things that Christians have written for this purpose to find out what the Lord has done. I love reading the Fox's Book of Martyrs because in that book I read about how God was close to people who were often, all of them had their lives taken for the Lord Jesus. I read of individuals who are getting ready to pay the ultimate price, going to sacrifice their lives, lay it down for the Lord Jesus, and they talk about almost always the comforting presence of the Lord. John Bunyan said he made my prison a palace, 19 years in the Bedford jail. He said God made his presence made my prison a palace I'm just saying that there is a presence that is near. Listen, everyone else may walk out, but the Lord Jesus never will. He's a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. We read in that same text in 2 Corinthians chapter 1 that the presence of the Savior is not only there, but the purpose of the Savior is very real. See, he's doing something in your life through suffering. He's doing something in your life through suffering. If you've ever worked with wood. And you try to make it something useful. Have you ever just thought when you're working with it, what if this piece of wood could talk? What if this piece of wood could speak? You take the axe and you chop the tree down. And then you begin to take instruments and maybe it's a chisel or Perhaps it's a saw or maybe it's sandpaper or something of that nature, and you're you're you're gonna make something useful out of it. You're gonna make something good out of it, but it's gotta suffer to get there And it would say, man, that hurts. Don't put pressure there. And I'll tell you what's happening in some of your lives. God's putting pressure there and you're saying, hey, that hurts. And the Lord's saying, just trust me with it. I'm going to make something good out of it. I'm going to do something for your good and his glory. I'm helping you with this. I'm helping you here. And that's exactly what the Lord does with suffering. My friend, do you realize that most of this Bible is written as a response to suffering? That the hymns that we so so joyfully pick up and sing the majority of them were written through suffering They're a result of suffering. Do you know when we go to heaven, we're going to go through, the Bible says, gates of pearl? Twelve gates. One pearl. Somebody said, I'd like to see the thing that grew in. Well, they don't listen, he's created. Why did he make the gates of pearl? Why are heaven's gates made of pearl? Because we're going to be reminded every time we walk through them. We're here on the sufferings of another. The Lord Jesus hung on Calvary's cross. suffered the sin of all the world upon himself and the judgment of God and he paid the price in full. And my friend, I'm here because somebody suffered I'm grateful that there's a purpose in suffering. Can I leave you with this? This is the determination of providence. I want you to see the determination of providence. In other words, who's in charge of suffering? I'm going to tell you something, the devil's not. He's the cause of a lot of it, but he's not in charge of it. You're not at his will. And you need to remember that. Boy, you say There was a dear lady in our church. I mentioned her some back in camp meeting, Sister Modena. And uh some sometimes people would say this. They would get up and give testimony. We'd have testimony night And they would say, Boy, the devil's been on my back. And and everybody that knew her knew what was coming. Tell him to get off She'd shout it out every s every time. And finally people got the and they didn't say that anymore. But but listen, sometimes we get the mentality that the devil can do any old thing he pleases, not according to the Bible. You're God's people. If you're a Christian, if you're born again, you're saved by the grace of God. He's got to get permission. And the permission comes for a purpose. We see here there's a div uh a determination of providence. And we see that in 1 Peter 1, verse 6. The Bible says, Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, you're in heaviness through manifold temptations. I like that season business. It tells me suffering don't go on forever. It's a season. You know what we're seeing? We're seeing the change of a season. Summer don't go on forever. Now, some of you people like summer. And summer around here is like living real close to the devil's house. It gets hot. But I I like this. I like when I get up in the morning and it's about 40 degrees and I'm I'm alive again. Like an old groundhog coming out of his hole But listen, that means the seasons are changing. Summer don't last forever. Fall don't last forever. Winter don't last forever. Can I encourage you, Christian? Suffering don't last forever. Weeping may endure for the night, but joy comes in the morning. There's a season to suffering, but then there's a sovereign over suffering. Notice this, if need be. Well let me ask you this: who determines the need be? Who determines the, if need be, who's the one that's got his hand on the thermostat? I'll tell you who it is, it's the Lord. He's the one that determines it. The old song says, When through fiery trials my pathway shall lie. Well let me ask you something. Who's governed this thing? Who's saying, okay, it's it 's a time for suffering? Look at the lives of the disciples. when Jesus put them on a boat and sent them right into the face of a storm. He didn't do that because he didn't know the weather, couldn't read the weather. He did that because he had something to teach him in the storm. And I'm just saying this morning that there is a sovereign who rules over all suffering. There is someone who's in charge. He's got his hand on the thermostat. It's not going to get hotter than he intended. If you're ever have you've ever worked with metal, we had a machinist one time I became good friends with and His wife came to church, man, you could tell they'd been into a little row, been been upset about something, and she said, I went to get in my oven the other day and he had steel plates in my oven curing it, making getting it ready for the machine shop. Well she is hot under the collar. Well, you know to make steel strong you gotta often heat it and You've got to know the right temperature with certain parts of it, because if you heat it too much, you'll weaken it. If you don't heat it enough, you'll not do it any good. But there's a there's a proper temperature for each type of metal. And that heat's what tempers it and makes it strong. And I'm saying to you, there's a God in heaven who knows the temperatures you can take. He's the one who's sovereign over all of our suffering. And then I want you to see the sure end. Let me read this text and I'll be done. 1 Peter 5. 10. But the God of all grace Who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you That's the sure end of suffering. You'll be better off for it in the end. Job's , these two words really stood out to me this morning. After this Now that that doesn't sound like a whole lot, but when you had been through what Job had been through, that was a big deal. There was an after this There was an after losing all of his children. There was an after this of losing his health. There was an after this of losing his wealth. There was an after. Can I tell you something? If you're saved by the grace of God, there's an after this There's an after this of your suffering in this life, perhaps, but if not, for sure, in the one to come, there's going to be an after this, and this is nothing to compare to what lies after this. Thank God for the after this. There's fellowship, church, to be had in your suffering. Don't do what many do. Many run from him. When the fire gets hot, when the way gets rough, when the battle gets tough. Many say, that's enough for me, I'm gone, and the raw. Don't run from him, run to him Run to him. Lord, I need you. I'm not going to get through this if you don't help me. Lord, I need you. Listen, you run to him. You know what you'll find? You'll find a loving father Who will give you fellowship? Who will let you have the joy of knowing him in the dark seasons of life and know that he's a friend that will never forsake you nor abandon you. Now, friend, if you're here this morning unsaved, I want to encourage you, trust the Lord Jesus and be born again. He'll save you. You say, how? Well, the Bible makes it clear. He paid for our sin on Calvary 2,000 years ago He shed his blood, shed his blood, gave his life. He was the sacrifice of God for your sin, for my sin, for the sins of the whole world. And the Bible says if we'll call upon the name of the Lord, he said, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Salvation's a gift God alone gives. Church don't have it. Some other person doesn't have it. It's not in our hands to dispense. He alone has the gift. And he'll give it to you, my friend. Dear sinner friend, are you you lost? Do you see your need for a savior? Cry out to him. He don't ignore mercies. When someone says, Lord, have mercy on me. My friend, there's no deaf ear or cold heart or blind eye. He reaches down and saves. He's a God full of mercy. My dear Christian friend, take heart. Suffering 's got a purpose. God's doing something, and he knows, and you and I have got to rest in him, and don't let it make you bitter. There's enough of that in this old world today. Don't let it make you mean and hard. Ask God to just help you and let Him get you through. This may be a crude illustration, but it's true. My preacher used to say years ago, he said, if a red worm can crawl through a barnyard, And come out on the other side just as slick and shiny as when he started. Surely God can take me through the rough patches of life and make me more like Christ on the other end. He can. He's that kind of God. Run to him. Don't run from him. Run to him. Maybe you need to run to him this morning. Maybe you need to run to him. Maybe you need to cry out to him. We use these old-fashioned altars around here. We're going to stand. Our invitation is going to be given. You come with that, please. Get our pianists and come. Would you stand with me, please? If you need to come, don't wait on this. This is just formality. You come on. You need to come pray, you come and seek the Lord. Heavenly Father, we bow our heads and we ask for your help We pray, dear Lord, that you'll do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. Father, I pray this morning, if there's somebody here lost, that the dear Spirit of God would deal with them in such a way. that they'll see their need, they'll turn from their sin. They'll trust you to be born again. I pray, dear Lord, for the Christian that's backslidden, cold, indifferent. uh careless in their walk with you. God get a hold of them this morning. Help them to draw near. Lord I pray for the suffering saint. I pray for that one struggling this morning, that one who's really been battling the battle Dear Lord, help them to run to you. Dear Lord, help them to run to you. God, I pray that you'd help them this morning to hear that there's help in the Lord. Oh Father, may they find sweet fellowship get closer to you. As they go through the fiery trial, God strengthen your people. Undertake for every need. Have your way. We ask it in Jesus' name. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.