Well, we sure will. All of all of us who are saved by the grace of God, we shall see the Lord Jesus. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to Leviticus chapter number six. Leviticus chapter number 6. And I want to read verses 8 to 13. Leviticus chapter number 6, verses 8 to 13. I'll invite you to stand with me, please. As we honor the reading of God's Word. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus. So that one's an easy one to find in the Old Testament. Leviticus chapter number six. Notice what verse number eight says. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering. It is the burnt offering because of the burning upon the altar all night unto the morning, and the fire of the altar shall be burning in it. And the priest shall put on his linen garment, and his linen breeches, shall he put upon his flesh, and take up the ashes which the fire hath consumed with the burnt offering on the altar. And he shall put them beside the altar. And he shall put off his garments and put on the other garments and carry forth the ashes without the camp unto a clean place. And the fire upon the altar shall be burning in it. It shall not be put out. And the priest shall burn wood on it every morning. And laid the burnt offering in order upon it, and he shall burn thereon the fat of the peace offerings. The fire shall ever be burning upon the altar, it shall never go out. Now I want you to see that verse. Our text verse this morning is verse number 13. The fire shall ever be burning upon the altar, it shall never go out. I want to preach on the fire on the altar this morning. Heavenly Father, we bow in Jesus' name and are thankful for your great kindness. We thank you, O Lord, for the privilege that you've given us to hear and enjoy what we've already experienced. Father, we've come now to the preaching of your word, and I know it is your word. It says, Lord, you've taught us that by the foolishness of preaching, it's pleased you to save those who believe. We pray this morning that you would help in the preaching, for Lord, we cannot do this without you. I pray that you would hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up the Lord Jesus. I pray for the hearers because Lord, they can't hear without you. We can't hear without the working of the Spirit of God in our hearts. And so we ask that you would work in our hearts, each one who hears. And Lord, I pray that in everything that's said or done, the Lord Jesus would be glorified, be lifted up, magnified. Lord, we're here because of you. And Lord, I just pray that you'll speak to us in a very personal and real way. Well, thank you for what you do, for we ask it all in Jesus' strong name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. The Old Testament is a Bible picture book Some people, when they get a book, they want to find out first how many pictures it has. And they say, well, I'll read it if it's got sufficient pictures, right? But in reality, this Old Testament is a picture book of the Bible. In the Old Testament, God draws pictures In types and shadows and such, so that you can see or learn spiritual truth. In the picture I just read, or the account I just read, God is speaking through Moses, to Aaron, to his sons, and telling them how to carry out the burnt offering or how to tend to the burnt offering. And what I want to specifically look at, because there's a whole lot of pictures here, and we could be the rest of the day in some looking at all the pictures that are drawn here. But what we really want to focus on is this fire burning on the altar. This fire on the altar is a picture of the believer's heart. Now that altar is a picture of the believer's heart, and that fire burning on that altar is a picture of the love and devotion we are to have for the Lord Jesus Christ. Matthew Henry said, we must keep the fire of holy love always burning. We must keep the fire of holy love always burning. Now you may be sitting here this morning saying, Preacher, my fire is burning so hot. It's about to get out of bounds, you know. It's about and you say, I don't need a message about keeping the fire burning on the altar. Hold on, you will. You will. You say, preacher, is it all that important that the fire of love burn in my heart for the Lord Jesus? Well, listen to what Jesus said. In Matthew chapter number 22 and verse 35, he said, This is the first and great commandment that we're to what? Love thy God. Of all the commandments, you remember, as they sought to entice the Lord Jesus, they thought he can't elevate one above the other because they're all equal. in the eyes of God. But yet the Lord reminded them something greater than the moral law and something greater than the ceremonial law is that we love God. That hard working, sin, hating steadfast church in Ephesus. God had a lot to say to them that was good. He said, I commend you for all of these things. He commended them that they would try those false apostles and they would say, You found out they weren't true and you you discovered them, you had discernment. He praised them, praised them, praised them, and then he gets to this verse and verse 4, and he says, Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee. What did he have against them? I mean, look, these people were, they hated sin. These people worked hard, they were steadfast, but they had left their first love. That fire wasn't burning in their hearts anymore of love. They didn't have that heart of devotion for the Lord Jesus. They were doing their duty, but their devotion had waned. They were doing what was expected, but they did not have that devoted heart for the Lord Jesus. And he said, I counsel thee. Buddy, when God gives you counsel, you better listen. And he told them to remember from whence they had fallen and to repent and to return to their first works and to get back to first love. Dr. Hitchens was teaching on temptation. And there in the book of James, in chapter number one, you remember he he he talked about those that endure temptation shall win the crown of life. And he says, but there's two words at the very end of that verse that's the key to victory, and it's this, love him. Love him. You know how you overcome? You love him. Do you know how you stay faithful? You love him. Do you know how you keep you resist temptation? You love him. The reason a lot of times we don't do what we ought to do is because we don't love him like we ought to love him. Duty will take you so far, but but devotion will take you a lot further. Being required and demanded, that'll get you a ways, but this devotion will carry you right safely home. We must, we must keep a fervent love burning in our hearts for the Lord. Now, some of you got your fire reignited That's good. Some of you this week got your fire reignited. Some of you are wondering if your wood's wet this morning. But the reality is we have got to keep the fire burning. General William Booth, riding through the Alps, had a young private say to him, General, look at the beauty all around us. And he was sitting there with his eyes closed. And so he called on him again and said, General, look at all these beautiful snow-capped mountains and all of the scenery. You're missing it. And he just quietly said , Tend the fire. Because the tendency of the fire is to go out. You say, what was the old general doing? He was feeding the fire of devotion in his heart for the Lord Jesus Christ. I do believe that one of the missing elements in the local New Testament church today is the fire of devotion and love for the Lord Jesus Christ. We might love our denomination, and we might love our preacher and we might love our people, but really what matters is, do we love the Lord Jesus Christ? I read of a great revival that took place in Scotland. It started on a Sunday morning when a shy 14-year-old girl who had never spoken publicly or never really made any noise outwardly so that anybody would pay attention. She was that backward, stood up, And and said in that that Gaelic language, she said these words, I love the Lord Jesus Christ with all my heart. Sat down. The preacher who penned the account said that it was like an explosion from glory, that those words sparked a fire that burned across this land for many years to come. What was it? Her heart was burning with devotion. Her heart was lit. It was on fire for the Lord Jesus Christ. And she had to let people know she loved the Lord. Now I've got to tell you something You don't have to advertise love. Love's its own advertisement. You ever see anybody ride down the road and it's a man and woman there together? And of course it's harder now the way they build cars today, but there used to be a day when you could sit on a bench seat close together. And buddy, they just just they're so much they're so close together you can't put a piece of paper between them. That loves being advertised, right? That loves being advertised. I was gonna I'm picking I'll pick on Joe he's not here. But uh we've got a a camera there around our home and so he when he left the other morning I got some incriminating pictures. I do. I got some real incriminating pictures. I said to Sarah, I said, What's he doing? We gotta talk to this boy. Good thing you two are married Anyway, you don't have to advertise love. You don't have to wear a t-shirt that says, I love Jesus, if you really love him. You don't have to say, hey, let me tell you how much I love Jesus. It will show on you because that's the nature of love Love can't be hid no more than you can hide the rising sun. Love can't be covered up, my friend. It just it shows, it shows when you love the Lord Jesus And now listen, in the Old Testament, we've got a picture drawn for us of how to keep that love going. I want you to see something real quick. Go to Leviticus chapter 9. And I want you to see the first thing about this love, and I'll get to my message, but the first thing about the love is that, or the fire here, which represents love, is that it has supernatural origin. It's a supernatural fire. Now, Moses gives the instructions, we get to chapter 9, and it's being put into practice. They're making the sacrifices. And verse 24, look what it says. And there came a fire out from before the Lord. And consumed upon the altar the burnt offering and the fat, which when all the people saw, they shouted and fell on their faces. Now from that time until the destruction of the temple, this fire, I know they're in the tabernacle, they're going to get in the temple. They say that this fire w was never allowed to go out. This fire never stopped burning. When God lit the fire in heaven, you say, What are you getting at? Here's what I'm getting at. The only way you got any fire of love burning in your heart is because you've been supernaturally born again. John says in 1 John chapter 4, we love him because he first loved us. Listen, you can't go to a class and learn how to love the Lord. You can't be discipled into loving Christ. You can't be educated into love for the Lord. But you get born again and you will love Him. Now look, people that aren't saved don't understand that. They think this morning, you're kind of crazy. They think you've lost your mind. I mean you get up here and sing about somebody with enthusiasm you've never laid your eyes on You carry a Bible and read about every day and spend time with someone that you've never touched with your hands. You you you look forward to living forever in heaven with someone that you ha have never heard his voice audibly or looked at his form outwardly, but yet you love him. Why? Oh, you love him because he first loved you. That supernatural fire got lit at the new birth, and you've loved him ever since. I don't believe in a salvation that leaves you with no love for Jesus Christ. I don't believe there's no such thing as being saved and not loving the Lord. Now you may be cold and indifferent and backslid and out of fellowship And not right with God, but deep inside of you is if nothing else but a spark of love. If you've been born again, you love the Lord Jesus Christ. It's evidence of the new birth But I want you to notice something here. This fire had to be kept burning. These priests, Moses, or excuse me, Aaron and his sons, were given instruction. And those instructions were: don't let the fire go out. Don't let the fire go out. You've got to keep it burning. If you don't keep it burning, it'll go out. Several years ago, my wife and I, just about a week apart, had surgery, and we couldn't make it to our basement. Our basement was where we kept our firewood and our furnace, and that was what heated our house. I think at that time, I I forget how old Joe was, 11, 12, something like that. And I said to him, I said, you're going to have to keep the fire going. If the fire goes out, the water freezes. If the fire goes out, we get cold. If the fire goes out, there's a whole lot of problems. I said, son, it's on you to keep the fire going. We couldn't go up downstairs. We a couple of weeks, neither one of us could climb stairs. So every morning he'd go and stir the fire and feed the fire and get the fire going. You say, How'd he do? He did so good that the linoleum in our floor just bubbled. There were a few times I said, look, just let that fire alone. I don't care if it does go out. You're killing us up here, man. We were roasting. And we had windows and doors open. People stopped in. Preacher, you guys okay? Yeah. Joe's just keeping the fire going. Boy, he kept her hot. But I'm telling you, my friend, if there's any fire you keep going in your life, it needs to be this love of the Lord Jesus Christ. You've got a flesh, you live in a body that tends to smother that fire. We live in a world that's a wet blanket on that fire. There are a whole lot of Christians whose fires aren't burning Who get bothered when other people's fires are burning and they want to put it out. I'm here to tell you you've got to work on keeping the fire burning. It must be a priority. Do you realize how important this fire was? If this fire went out, worship stopped. That's the first you had to go after the cleansing, the labor, they had to go to this brazen altar and there they made the sacrifice. You didn't go into the holy place. You didn't go before the Lord. You didn't go make your offering until you passed the altar. It was important. It was critical. You could not have worship. Now, folks, there's a difference in going to church and worshiping God. There's a difference in singing a hymn and worshiping God. There's a difference in hearing a sermon and worshiping God. There's a The difference in singing in the choir and worshiping God When we're worshiping God, that's heart adoration. That's that inward man rejoicing in the reality of that that's unseen. It's doing what Peter said, rejoicing with joy unspeakable and full of glory. It's recognizing that He is He's everything and all things and He's He's all that I need and it's acknowledging it From the very depths of your heart. You can sing, Oh how I love Jesus and not love him in your heart You can say, Lord, I love you. And I'm just saying we can get caught in all the external and all the entrapments of religion and miss the reality of having a fire that burns in our heart for the Lord Jesus Christ. I feel bad for some Christians, quite honestly, because they're trying to live for the Lord without loving the Lord and they're miserable. Well, I gotta go to church again. I gotta kill I gotta read my Bible again. Uh you know, we do all these things and and and it becomes a drudgery. It becomes I'll tell you what, it makes a whole lot difference when you love the Lord and you say, Oh boy, I get to go. Oh boy, I get to read my Bible. Oh boy, I I have the there's an enjoyment and an enthusiasm. Your old body may be tired, and bless your heart, some of you I know are wore out. because of the week we've had. And I I commend you for being faithful. But let me say this, even with a weary body, you can have a worshiping heart. Have a worshiping heart. Told God a few nights ago I said, Lord, I sure want to say more and do more right now, but I just can't. I'm just going to have to shut my eyes and Lord, you'll just have to accept what's burning in my heart. Thank you for it, Lord. I just give you the glory And I believe he understands that. But what I'm saying this morning is this, that you and I have got to keep that at a white, hot fervor in our hearts We cannot let this world make us cold. Jesus warned us in the last days that because of the abundance of iniquity, the love of many would wax cold. You and I live in a world that's filthy, top to bottom. You and I are exposed on a daily basis to the grime and filth of the world, and it's like pouring water on a fire. It's just costly trying to put the fire out. You've got a nature inside of you. I was thinking of something as preacher, as Brother Hitchens was preaching this morning. He was talking about Jesus not having a nature to respond to the temptation, but we do. Did you ever read that book, Call of the Wild? You've got the call of the wild inside of you. You answer to it. That old dog could hear them wolves. He had enough wolf in him that that he he wanted to be one of them. He wanted to identify with them. And you and I still have an old nature in us, and it identifies with this world. And we respond to that call of the wild if we're not careful. And I'm just saying that'll put the fire out. And like I said, there are a lot of Christians, their fire hadn't burnt in years, and they don't want anybody else's fire burning because it bothers them when they see your fire burn. And so what they do is try to put your fire out I remember when I surrendered to preach the gospel and my heart was just fired up and thrilled about the privilege and I had three Christian elderly ladies pull me aside and say, now young man, you need to become more like us. And you need to become more mature and grow in the Lord and get rid of all of this excitement. And I thought in my heart, I didn't say it because I respected my elders, I thought in my heart, oh God, don't ever let me get like them Don't ever let me get that cold and critical, censurous nature about me that criticizes everything and cannot see good in anything. God don't let me go there. Cause the fire to burn in my heart that I can't get in that condition. I'm saying there'll be Christians around you that want to put your fire out. They don't want it to burn. It bothers them. It bothers them when your fire burns Let me say to you this morning, you got into that fire if it keeps burning. I want you to notice three things real quick. Number one, the consistency at the altar. There was a consistency at the altar. In verse number 9, here's what Moses said, command, or God said through Moses, command Aaron and his sons, saying This is the law of the burnt offering. It's the burnt offering because of the burning upon the altar. Look at this. All not Under the morning. And the fire of the altar shall be burning in it. Now, would you jump back to the book of Exodus real quick? Exodus 29. I want you to see something. Exodus twenty nine and verse thirty eight and thirty nine Now here's what God's given Moses details about. He says, Now this is that which thou shalt offer upon the altar. Two lambs of the first year day by day continually. You see that? Day by day continually. The one lamb thou shalt offer in the morning, and the other lamb thou shalt offer it even. Two lambs every day, morning and evening, morning and even. Day by day, continually, day by day, continually. Every day. You know what that is? That's consistency. They didn't do it just on the Sabbath They didn't go and say, oh, it's coming Sabbath. We better get the fire going. That's what a lot of Christians do. They don't get spiritual until it's time to go to church. Or take my Bible. I don't know where it's been since last time I was there, but uh better go find that thing because it's church time. That's not consistency. Well, you know, we've got to act right. It's the Lord's day. We've got to act right. We better straighten up. There's things we won't do. We better not do them now. Because it's the Lord's sake. I say to you, that that those are fire killers. Those are fire killers. There needs to be a consistency. Day by day, take a lamb, offer them in the morning, offer them in the evening, day by day, keep that fire going, day by day, uh attend to the fire. Do you know your daily decisions determine? the the scope of this fire. You're as spiritual today as you determined to be yesterday You're as close to God right now. You know, you might be sitting here saying, Man, I I I wished I'd cracked my Bible this week. I wished I'd prayed this week. And the reality is that you'll keep that fire going just as much as you see to it on a daily basis. There were a lot of times through the night it would be cold. We're talking minus thirty and forties. And so I'd set my clock at two and four and I'd get up at two o'clock and go feed the fire and I'd get up again at four o'clock and feed the fire. Why? Because if you didn't it'd get cold. When it's 40 below zero and the wind's blowing, I don't care how nice a house you've got or how well insulated, it's gonna get cold in just a minute. You let the fire go out and you're gonna be cold when you get up in the morning. And so you've got to tend to it, you've got to see to it, even when it's uncomfortable, even when it might not be pleasant, even when you might just want to say Man, I'd like to lay here just a little bit longer. What I'm trying to say is these spiritual disciplines, we daily determine just how well our fire is going to burn. Every day Can I just simply say to you this morning there's no replacement for consistency? There's nothing. There's not a revival meeting, thank God for everyone. And you know we've had a good we've had a good summer around here. God's given us some good meetings. God's done some good things in our hearts. But that's no replacement for consistency. You can hop from camp meeting to camp meeting. I mean until they call you Mr. or Mrs. Camp Meeting. And yet, there's nothing going to take the place of getting up in the morning and getting a fire going. Or before you go to bed at night, tending that fire, so she'll still be burning when you get up in the morning. There's nothing can take the place of just simple consistency on a daily basis. And listen, we've got to make it the priority. It's got to be the priority. See, the most important thing is not what people think about you. The most important thing is that heart burning with love for Jesus. The most important thing is not what others say about you or the position you hold or the outward trappings of religion. The most important thing is, is my fire burning? If my fire's not burning, all of that other stuff's just a shale, it's just a facade, it's just a form of godliness, but it denies the power thereof. Now we look at dead religion and we say, oh, wow shameful, how shameful that is. But do you know there can be a fundamental form of godliness? We're eat up with it. There's a fundamental form of godliness. There's a form of godliness, uh look, friend, that that is fundamental in nature. I mean they dot their I's and cross their T's and do all the things they're supposed to do. But the fire's long gone out. It's just a form. It's just a shell. It's not a real thing. It's not the real burning. There's no love for Jesus. There might be love for form. There might be love for the function. There might be love for the outward traffics. Some of God's people, bless their hearts, they're proud of the reality that they do dot their eyes and cross their T's, but they're dead. They're spiritually dead. There's no fire burning in their heart. And I'm here to tell you we should not be surprised when that sort of thing turns belly up. Because it's long since been dead and it's just yet to stop moving, like an old snake you kill. It might wiggle and wiggle for two or three days, but but eventually it stops because it's dead I'm just saying, church, we've got to keep the fire going, God make it a priority. And say you say, but preacher, nobody around me's got any fire. Well tend your own fire Don't worry about everybody else's fire. You say, but my wife don't have fire. Husband, keep your fire. Wife, you say my husband don't have fire. You keep your fire. You're not responsible for his. You know, I never had a neighbor knock on my door and say, We need to work on your fire Never. I never had a neighbor come and help me build my fire. He uh listen, we you look after your own fire. And we need to make that a party and say, God, by your grace, I want to keep my fire burning I'm not going to let somebody else put water on my wood and put my fire out. I'm going to attend to my own fire. I'll tell you what, you can get a fire burning so hot you can't hardly put it out. You know that? You can get a fire going so well that that that I you you could stand there, I accidentally set my garage on fire burning trash. And uh I'm beyond the statute of limitation, so I can't go to jail for it. But I was burning my trash because I wasn't going to pay $200 uh every two weeks for somebody to take it away. And it caught my garage on fire, and I'm standing there at the water hose trying to put that thing out, and it was sucking the water out of that hose. And the fire just kept going. A fire can get so hot that the water won't affect it. You need a fire burn your heart like that. I need a fire burning in my heart like that. Because I'm here to tell you the devil's going to make sure there's water coming your way to put that fire out. Let me just say, let me just say this for our church family. Dear brother, sister, don't you don't you be guilty of putting somebody's fire out. Let the Lord do a work in their heart, let it burn, and listen, let them learn and grow, and and you just pray for them. And ask God to do a work in them, and it may be that you might get your little fire lit by theirs. And so ask the Lord to help them. You may get a benefit from it. So let's keep the fire going. Consistency is the key. You know what happens? We get comfortable being cold. You just get comfortable. We first moved up north we would turn our heat up. We started building fires into August, first September, and you'd build a consistent fire right through to April or May. I built them in June and time or two in July. But I remember them saying now, don't get used to being too warm. Because you can't afford it. I said, what? Put a sweater on, turn the thermostat down, get used to being cold so you can be comfortable being cold. Now I'll be honest with you, it was hard for me to ever get comfortable being cold. There were times you go to bed cold, you get up cold, you cold all day, you went outside, you got colder. But every once in a while I noticed we'd get comfortable being cold. We'd get comfortable being cold. Some of our choir members don't like it 60 degrees on the platform. That's comfortable to me. That's not comfortable to some of them. That's why I don't turn it on until they're off of here. But you you you can get comfortable, and let me say this spiritually, you can get comfortable being cold. You can get comfortable not reading your Bible. You can get comfortable missing church. You can get comfortable not praying. You can get comfortable being disobedient to God. You can just get comfortable and get to the place that it don't bother you that you don't have fire anymore. And my friend, I'm telling you that's a dangerous place for any of God's little children to be. We need to ask God. Stir our hearts. Lord, light our fire. Help us to remember what it's like to be warm and to get right with you so that we will not be comfortable being cold You know what? A church can get comfortable being cold. Services dead, dry , no life, no stirring, nothing. And it don't bother anybody. We just go through the motion. We showed up, we were there, we did what we're supposed to do, we went home But you can get comfort. I'm just saying, my friend, we've got to be consistent. Consistency will keep you from getting comfortable being cold. Every day he said you start that fire and make the offering. Every night start that fire and make the offering. That fire is to never go out. You've got to keep it burning always, forever, continually, because listen, got to be consistent. Quickly, number two, there's the cleaning of the altar. Do you see that? They had to clean this altar. Look with me in verse 10 The priest shall put on his linen garment and his linen breeches, shall he put upon his flesh, and take up the ashes Which the fire hath consumed with the burnt offering on the altar. And he shall put them beside the altar. So the priest was to dress in a proper way, with the the the linen garment and the linen breeches, and he was to take those ashes and then just take them off the altar and put them beside the altar. Then he was to go and change his clothes, verse 11, and put off his garments and put on other garments and carry forth the ashes. without the camp unto a clean place. So he was to come back and get those ashes with different clothing and to carry them to a clean place outside of the camp. You say, what in the world's going on? He's just cleaning up the altar You say, what does that mean? Number one, he had to cover his flesh. He had to put the linen garment over his flesh and to put the linen breeches on. That linen speaks of the purity of the saint. That linen speaks of the righteousness of Christ. He's the cover. Listen, every one of us have got flesh that needs to be covered. New Testament language crucified and mortified. We're to we're to crucify the flesh. Now look, I I dreamed I I as a as a child, I thought when I got to a place spiritually that my flesh wouldn't give me any trouble. And I thought somehow I'd grow to the point that that that that it'd just be easy to deal with the flesh. And you know what I'm finding out? The older I get, the meaner this stuff is. It's it's it's a relentless battle. Your flesh and my flesh is going to be something we've got to contend with on a daily basis till Jesus comes and we lay it down the grave or it's changed in a moment in a twinkling of an eye. That's just real. And so for this altar to burn like it should, it has to be dealt with. That flesh had to be covered, then it had to be cleaned. They had to clean the ashes. What were the ashes? The ashes were the result of God judging sin. That sacrifice is laid on that altar and it's burnt. What do you have after a burning? You have ashes. And if you've ever built a fire, you know that one of the things you've got to do is take out the ashes. If you leave the ashes in your firebox, your fire is not going to burn very well because it's going to smother that fire out And the Bible tells us in 1 Corinthians 11, if we'll judge ourselves, we'll not be judged. And I've got to judge sin in my life on a daily basis. And clean off that altar and clean out that that that that heart and make sure that the fire can burn brightly. And then he said, carry it to a clean place. You notice that? Carry it to a clean place. Aren't you glad there's a clean place? 1 John 1 9 says, if we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin, to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. There is a cleansing that can take place in your life. And you and I need to be cleaned on a continual basis. Keep short accounts with God. Keep short of counsel God. Dr. John R. Rice used to travel a lot, and he said sometimes the only place he could pray was in a hotel restroom. His family went with him. And so he would get in there and lock the door. And he said he he would often to be so thorough with God He would take toilet paper and he would write his sin down and he would confess it and and ask God to forgive it and cleanse it because he didn't want it to hinder his walk with the Lord, and then he would take and flush it and throw it away. Somebody said to him, Why'd you do that? He said, because what my sin's no your business. He said, the Lord's taken it away. You say, preacher, what are you saying? I'm saying you've got to clean the ashes off your altar. You've got to do it God's way. We've got to deal with our sin. Listen, there are people sitting around, you've got hard feelings against somebody, and you're wondering why you're drying up on the inside the ashes. of unconfessed sin and the ashes of unforgiveness are smothering your fire, and it's never going to burn until you get rid of that. You're going to have to get those, uh, deal with that flesh and crucify it and then go before the Lord and confess your sin and get the blood of Jesus to wash it away. and go to that clean place where you can say, I'm free from my sin, I'm forgiven and cleansed. It's under the precious blood of Calvary. There's a host of sin that gets in our way. You say, well, preaching ain't a big thing. If it's big enough to break fellowship with God, it's a big thing. It's a big thing. If it dims my view of Christ, if it dampens my love for Christ, if it destroys my walk with Christ It's big enough to take to Calvary and judge it there at the old rugged cross and ask God to forgive and put it away so I can have victory and walk with God and be right with Him. Oh, God help us. Our flesh is such a mess. It gets in our it listen, it ri it'll raise its ugly head. It'll raise its ugly head. I I mean you can be driving down the road and be enjoying God and somebody cut you off and the next thing you know, you're contemplating bad things. Huh? You can get up in the morning, be right with God, and go to work and somebody say something to you, just and it just rubs you the wrong way And the next thing you know, your flesh is seething and boiling and you're not right with God because you're thinking about how I'm going to get back to this co-worker or or how out of sorts you are. Or or you come to church, this is a big one. We come to church and boy you're full of joy and glad to be in the house of God. You get in here and sit down. Somebody says or does something you don't like. And next thing you know, you're crossways, and you say, Preacher, I don't have no joy. Well, you're not going to have no joy until you get that sin under the blood, get right with God, clean the ashes off the altar so that thing can burn like God wants it to burn. Oh, may God help us to see. We've got to keep our alder clean. We need to be careful about staying clean before God. Then notice last of all the care of the fire in verse 12. It says the fire upon the altar shall be burning in it, it shall not be put out. And the priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and lay the burnt offering in order upon it, and he shall burn thereon the fat of the peace offerings. You notice every morning it had to be refueled. Refueled. Mark 135 says, Jesus arising a great day before dawn. What did he get up for? Go be with the Father. Had to put wood on the fire. He had to put wood on the fire. Had to get alone with the Lord. And you'll notice he said he he talks about this meticulous care. He said to put the the offering in order. And then burn the fat of the peace offering. And man, I wished I had time. But this peace offering, the fat of the peace offering, is that which is sure as communion with God. It's that thing that connects man to God. That's what that fad of the peace offering was all about. And so what was happening here is that communion was being held. This wood was being place this fire was being kindled and and this that this fellowship was being enjoyed. Do you know It may be that you need to go home and clean out some private place and say, I'm going to meet with you God here till you light the fire on my altar. I think sometimes we think, I'll just run to the altar and listen, I'm for using the altar. Use it, use it, use it, use it, please. I'm for bowing our knees. There's some people who never bowed a knee in an altar and it shows in their life and heart. But I'm for saying getting on your knees and getting right with God. But some things aren't going to be fixed in a two-minute prayer kneeling in front of a church. Some things you're going to have to just get along with God and stay there until the fire gets to going. And that's exactly what they did. They would take and lay everything in order, put the fat of the peace offering, and they would begin to burn that fat, and that savor would go up, and God would be pleased, and he would have mercy on his people in commune with them. And I'm saying that you and I need more time with God than we do each other. We need more time alone with the Lord than we do with our our connections socially and otherwise. We need time with the Lord. That's why, my friend, we this nervous age has got us running every which way but where we ought to. We need to get back to getting with God. Notice again, they had to care for this fire. And the reality is, I need to be reminded and refreshed by new communion, fresh communion with the Lord. I need to get in his presence. I don't need to just see, don't just read your Bible and say, I read my chapter. No, read your Bible until you meet the Lord. Well, I prayed my prayers that I always pray. Don't pray your prayers that you always pray. Pray until you pray to God and know your prayers have been heard. Well, I thank the Lord for this, that, and the other. Well, that's good. But listen, please, understand that just going through the motion is not the same as having meaningful communion with Christ. There's no substitute for it, church. When you and I stop and think about and are reminded by the reality that I have peace with God through the Lord Jesus Christ, I have access to the Father through him. I have righteousness because of him. I have forgiveness of my sin due to him. It's all by him. You know what it? Christ is the wood to the fire. He fuels the fire that burns in my heart for love for the Lord Jesus. He's the fire. He's the fuel. That's why he said eat my my body and drink my blood. He wasn't uh encouraging cannibalism or teaching transubstantiation. He was simply telling me that I'm your life. You've got to have me. You can't do it without me. I'll I'll fuel the fire. I'm the fuel for the fire. I'll make it burn. Oh, we've got to care for the fire. Well, church, you've got to keep your fire burning. As good as camp meeting was, thank God for it, it'll not be sufficient tomorrow morning. You have to get up and build a fire. Tuesday, you'll have to do the same thing. Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, six months from now, still be building a fire. And I'll tell you something, there's something awful comforting about building a fire when you've been cold. I used to go down my early morning to start my fire or get my fire stirred up. If I built it right the night before, I still had colds that I could depend on. I'd stand there a while, and every once in a while the Here Elizabeth would holler at me and say, You come and eat breakfast? And I'd get so caught up warming by the fire, I'd leave the door of the furnace open, I'd just be standing there, you know. Just soaking that heat up. Man, it felt good. And it it it isn't it amazing when you get warm how how you move easier. And all of the elderly said, Amen and Amen. When you get all that stuff warmed up, it just moves better, don't it? And you thank the Lord for it. But listen, I'm saying, oh, there's nothing that will help us like getting this fire going and keeping it going in our hearts, church. Don't let the fire go out. Listen to the word of God. The fire shall ever be burning upon the altar. It shall never go out. Don't let your fire go out. Now look, you may be sitting here and say, Preacher, my fire's dwindled. You could have come to camp beaten all week and still not got your fire lit. You really could have, because you didn't let the Lord do what he wanted to do. But don't leave like that this morning. Whatever it is God's put his hand on, fix it. Deal with it. Take it to him. Whatever it is he's doing in your heart, let him have his way. Dear brother or sister, maybe God said, Hey, you're not consistent. You need to get consistent. Bow and say, God help me. I'm going to be consistent by your grace, help me. Lord, that I'll read my Bible and pray and spend time with you until my heart burns with love. Maybe there's something in the Holy Ghost said that puts your fire out. You better go back there and deal with that thing, because if you don't, your fire is never going to burn again like it should until you deal with it. Don't get comfortable being cold. Let's mind the Lord this morning. Would you stand with me, please? Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. Our Father we come in Jesus