Take your Bibles, please, and go with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter number two. I'm going to read two verses in your hearing this morning in Luke chapter number two. That's verses 13 and 14. And when you find your place, I'll invite you to stand with me, please, as we honor the reading of God's Word. We're breaking into a portion of scripture. The angels have, or the angel of the Lord, has made an announcement to the shepherds there in Bethlehem. And in verse number 13, the Bible says, And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host. Praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. I want to preach the Lord helping me this morning on this first Christmas carol sung by the angels. The first song that was ever sung about the birth of the Lord Jesus was sung by these angels. And I believe it carries a message we need to hear this morning. Father, we bow before you now and we pray that you might help us as only you can. You know the great need of every heart. I pray that you would meet that need and help us to lift up the Lord Jesus. For these few moments, O Lord, help us to see these things that only the Spirit of God can cause us and help us to see. And Lord, we'll give you the glory, for we ask these things in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. I think sometimes it would do us good to read our Bibles with imagination. And play out what your reading is taking place. When you read about the shepherds, can you imagine what it must have been like? The Bible tells us here that the shepherds were there abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. They're going about their business, they're doing their job. And suddenly the Bible tells us that the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. Can I translate that? They were scared to death. I mean, they're just they're not expecting what happened. Suddenly the sky lights up, the glory of God shines around them, and this angel begins to communicate with them The angel brings the communication, tells them that a Savior is born, tells them where and how they'll find him, but then another surprise takes place. The Bible tells us that suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host. Can you imagine the uh the to me I believe that it's saying here there was an innumerable company. I mean you couldn't count them all. There were so many the the heavens just filled with the angels And su and and and what are they doing? They're praising God. And they're giving God the glory for what's just taken place. They're celebrating the birth of the Lord Jesus with a song. Now there's some folk that get out of sort because we celebrate the birth of Jesus. Well, get out of sort with the angels. Because the angels celebrated the birth of Jesus. And the angels did it with a special song. And they sang a song to the Lord. Now, I want you to see this song, and I want us to look at it because it bears a message. By the way, every good song ought to bear a message. It ought to say something, it ought to have something to say, it ought to speak to us in some way, and certainly this heavenly carol has a message that we need to hear this morning. I want you to notice the first part of the message, and of course they started where all songs should start as they brought praise to God. It was a message of praise. Notice what they said. Glory to God in the highest. I believe these angels understood that they were to give glory where glory is due. They're praising God. They're praising God. Now look, the Bible teaches us that it's our privilege and our duty to praise the Lord. He's worthy of our praise. He he he when he does great things, in fact, just for who he is, we ought to be praising him. And so here the angels, they're giving glory to God. They say, Glory to God in the highest. Well, you look back in verse 13, it says, And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts, praising God. Praising God. Can you imagine what that sounded like? One day you'll know that if you're saved. If you're here this morning, you know the Lord Jesus, one day you're going to hear the angels join in in praising God. Boy, that's going to be someday, isn't it? You think about the angels praising God and they're giving glory to God, saying, Glory to God in the highest Someone said praise is always in order, especially as we celebrate his birth. It's always in order. It's always in order to praise God. Now, you say, what were they praising God for? What were they praising God for? Have you ever thought about that and just said, what are these angels praising God for? Well, number one, they were praising God for his plan. The birth of Christ was not an accident. When the Lord Jesus was born, this wasn't an oops moment. This was not just something that happened like the common course of things. This was the plan of God unfolding on the earth. This is God's plan. God's plan from the beginning, starting in Genesis chapter 3 and verse number 15 where the seed was promised to the woman and the crushing of the serpent's head was to come. This was the fulfillment of that promise. This was the plan of God unfolding on this earth Don't think for a moment what's happening today is just circumstance or happenstance. God 's plan is unfolding just as he decreed. The plan of God was repeated again and again, starting in Genesis chapter number three, and I'm told there's over three hundred, and some believe as many as five hundred prophecies. that we're regarding the coming of the Lord Jesus. But but regardless of the particular number, the reality is from generation to generation to generation, God said, I'm sending a Savior. He said, I'm going to send a Messiah. I'm going to send a deliverer. I'm going to send one who will rescue mankind. I'm going to send The one Isaiah prophesied of in Isaiah chapter 7 and verse 14. The Lord himself shall give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. And Matthew said that Emmanuel being interpreted means God with us. You know what we're celebrating and they're singing about and giving glory to God for? That God would come and live among men. That God would come down to this old earth. Now listen, all the religions of the world require something of man. You've got to do something. You've got to please God. This God, whoever that God may be, you've got to please Him. You've got to do something. You've got to perform. You've got to acc Accomplish something, you may have to take a pilgrimage You may have to make a sacrifice. You may have to travel and do good deeds and all of those things. But only Christianity Does God provide for us? The demand that God made was not on you and it wasn't on me. Why? Because we couldn't meet the demand What God required, we don't have. What we need, we can't produce. Just like Adam and Eve, when they tried to cover themselves and cover their sin, their covering was insufficient. God had to provide something to cover them with. And just like you and me and our sin, your righteousness will not cover you. Your deeds, your morals, your religiosity, all of the things we put up there and say I'm trying to please God, none of that will satisfy God. But God had a plan. And that plan involved the sending of his son. And when the angels, you've got to remember something, the angels are aware of what's happening because they're they know part they know the plan. They know the plan. This wasn't done in a corner somewhere. This was God's plan. And when they see that baby laid in the manger in Bethlehem, they say, Glory to God. The plan is unfolding. Galatians chapter 4 says, in the fullness of time, what did God do? He sent forth his son. He sent forth his son. This was the appointed time. This was the exact time. And I know people say, well, uh preacher, he he wasn't born in December. Well, I believe we can can discern that from the teaching of the scripture. But but I I think any time's a good time to celebrate the coming of the Lord. It's it again, it's always in order to praise God for the giving of his son. What's he doing? These angels are giving glory to God because of the plan of God unfolding. Here's the second thing I believe they're giving glory to God for. Not only the plan of God, but God's provision. God's provision. The Bible tells us here in verse 11 that the angel said this: Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. They understood that Jesus was the Savior. Here's the Savior. He's been born. And the Savior has come. Now, the angels, according to Peter, they desire to look into this salvation. They desire to, I mean, they study it. They want to know something about it. They've never entered into it, but they're awful curious about it. They want to know what it is, and they understood that this little baby would be the Savior. They understood that this here here this baby lying in that manger in Bethlehem is going to be the Savior of the world. He is the provision. Remember, go back in your Old Testament Go back to Abraham taking his son Isaac. Go back to that mountaintop where he's getting ready to thrust the dagger in his chest and hear God say, Abraham, stop Abraham stopped and he turns and he sees a ram caught in the thicket. And he realizes that God has done something that he said he would do. God has provided himself a lamb. God's made a provision. Watch John the Baptist so many years later, thirty-some years later Watch John the Baptist on the Jordan, uh banks of the Jordan. He's been baptizing, and people are coming in droves, we're told. And over the horizon comes someone who doesn't look really any different than any of the other men that had gathered round, but John knows who he is. You you say, how did he know? Well he met him a long time ago. You say where? He met him in in his mother's womb. I just read it this morning. That when Mary greeted Elizabeth, that babe leapt in her womb. And she was filled with the Holy Ghost. You say, what was John doing? John was worshiping in the womb of his mother. Now don't tell me that a that an unborn baby is just a bundle of cells. According to the word of God, they're living beings. And he would that that John as a baby was as aware, you say, how do you explain it? Like Dr. Hitchin said this morning, I believe a lot of things I just can't explain. I don't have an explanation for that, but here's what I do know, that John was thrilled at the announcement of the Lord Jesus. Of Mary and his Jesus being in his presence, he recognized whose presence he was in. I want you to notice that John would see him and John would say, Behold. John said, Stop. Everybody be quiet. Look, behold, behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. Look at him. Don't look at these waters of baptism. Don't look at John the Baptist, the prophet. You look at Jesus. He's God's provision. He's God's Lamb. And when you fast forward a little bit further, look up into eternity, see who's seated on a throne. And who is that on the throne? It's the Lamb of God, as it had been slain before the foundation of the world. I'm just saying that the angels were giving glory to God because of God's provision, a lamb had been provided. Those angels had watched Hundreds of thousands of lambs be slain in the temple. Prior to that, the tabernacle. They had watched the sacrifices and the blood flow. They had been present. It's obvious they were present in those places, and they were viewing this. They were watching this. And now they recognize that's coming to a close. No more lambs need to be slain. No more lives need to be taken. No more blood needs to be offered. Here is God's final lamb. Here's God's provision. God's provision. And then not only were they given glory to God because this was God's plan, and they were giving glory to God because of God's provision, but they were given glory to God for God's power. Remember what's happening here. In verse number 16, it says, They came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. Here was a miracle. Here was not just an ordinary baby. Here was the virgin-born son of God. Here was a demonstration of with God all things are possible. Here was a demonstration that God doesn't need man to do his work. God doesn't need our involvement. God doesn't need our contribution. God's able to send a baby through the virgin's womb. God's able to do what man you say, but but but I uh how how's this going to be? Isn't that what Mary said when the Lord told her that? How shall these things be? I don't know a man. This is not possible. This can't happen. And the Bible tells us that the power of the Most High overshadowed her. Now listen, there's a lot about the virgin birth that I don't comprehend or can't really figure out in my mind, but I do know this the God of heaven was able to put his son in the womb of Virgin Mary, and she brought him forth into this world, and lying in that manger was not the product of a husband and wife or a man and woman. but was a miracle demonstration of the power of God that God can go against nature if need be. And God does. And they said, Glory to God. Glory to God. I love it when God fools the experts. I love it when God does what people say, well, it it just can't happen. It's impossible. How many impossible things has our gracious Lord done? Any any any impossibility I'm sure there are some of you sitting here that people said that person will never be a Christian. I venture this some setting here that you said. Well, I'll never be a Christian. There's some of you today that you say there's the situation. Perhaps uh doctors said it's over. I mean you might as well just call in the family and Say your goodbyes and and and and and be prepared because they they just cannot live. But I serve a God who's got his hand on death and life. He 's the one in charge. We need to remember this morning, and I love it every once in a while, when God says, Just watch what I can do. God can do the impossible. These angels filled heaven. These angels lined up. Can you imagine? Row after row. Row after row, just as far as the eye could see. Have you ever seen a a picture of the of the Milky Way with uh you know with proper lenses and it it just looks like you you can just see forever that there seems to be no end. And can you imagine as those shepherds looked up just as far as their eyes could see, angel row after angel row after angel, and they're singing, Glory to God! Glory to God. Glory to God for his plan. Glory to God for his provisions. Glory to God for his great power. Maybe we ought to join in the chorus. And lift our voices too, because, beloved, if you're saved by the grace of God, you've got a song to sing this morning. And it's not here comes Santa Claus. It's Jesus Christ was born. Glory to God in the highest. Then notice their song not only involved praise, but it was a song of peace. Now here the critic chimes in. The Bible says, on earth peace. Immediately the critic says, Well, we know it's not true. So long as man has lived on earth, he's been at conflict. Nation against nation, kingdom against kingdom, man against man. Shortly after the Garden of Eden, brother against brother. Conflict. Man seems to know much more about conflict than he does about peace. Nowhere has there ever been a time on this earth that total peace has come. Nowhere. And the Bible critic says, well, see, that's not true then. What the angels said hasn't happened. Well, it just shows how little they know. Because, my friend, those who know Christ know peace. What peace did he bring? Well, number one, he brought a pardoning peace. Romans chapter 5, verse 1 says, Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Man is born at enmity against God. You're born at war. You're born an enemy. He's your enemy in the sense that you're lost in your sin. You're separated from God. Your sin puts you at odds with the Lord. And man lives in constant conflict. You know, what amazes me at the end of the tribulation, there's going to be a group of people who will join up with Satan and declare war against the heavens. And they're going to lift their defiant fists, and they're going to be ready to wage war against God. You know what that is? That's an outward demonstration of what goes on in the heart of every lost person. Every lost person is at war with God. Every lost person raises that defiant fist and says, You'll not lord over me. But there are some whom the Spirit of God, when He does His work, And when conviction settles in, and they bow the knee, and they look to the Lord and they trust Him, there becomes something that is a miracle in itself. It is the miracle of the new birth And being justified by faith, we have peace with God. The war's over. The battle has ended No longer do we raise the defiant fist. Now we raise worship and open hands. We lift arms of praise to God and we lift our hearts and we say, Oh Lord. You're good and merciful and gracious and kind. That's the peace that God brings. And you can lay your head on your pillow at night. And there may be turmoil all around you, but there is a deep settled peace knowing that all is well. All is well. There's that pardoning peace. Oh my friend, I I remember hearing Brother Squire Parsons sing about that battle that was raging. He talked about how it was finished on Calvary and it is finished, by the way, the battle's over. Jesus has won He's conquered death, hell, and the grave. He saves to the uttermost them that come to God by him. The only battle that's raging now is the one raging in your heart. And that's a battle of bowing or denying And he talked about how in my heart that battle was still raging. But thank God for the day, King Jesus. Conquered that old stubborn heart. Thank God for the day that the battle ended We didn't sign a peace treaty. It was already signed back on Calvary. We entered into, you know they tell me that for a long time after Vietnam That there still were men, soldiers in those jungles who didn't know the battle was over. And I understand that's been true in many places. That they're still fighting a battle. The the battle's over, the war's over, the the i it's finished, the conflict is over, uh the the the terms of peace have been signed and and agreements have been made and the soldiers have gone home, but there's still some who don't know. And maybe that's you this morning. You are in a battle, that war is raging, your heart's at enmity against God. You need to know the battle's over. Jesus Christ is the victor. He won. He paid the price. He shed his blood. He laid down his life. He died for you. He was buried. He rose again the third day. He saves anyone and everyone who will come to God by faith. And listen, my friend, the battle can be over in your own heart today. I remember the glad day God saved me. It'd been a long battle. That battle had raged. I had made a profession of faith as just a wee boy, and I remember being troubled over the fact that I just prayed what I prayed, just to pray what I prayed. And I knew I wasn't saved. I just I knew in my heart I wasn't saved. It I was just what I was. And I that battle what people think I'm saved. And I said I was saved. And I struggled. I know I'm in my sin. And I got to the place I was so under conviction I I was afraid if I went to sleep I would die in my uh in my sleep and go to hell. And it was a real battle But I remember the peace that came when I trusted Jesus. Just simply trusting. And by the way, that's the only way salvation is obtained by simply trusting. It's not you doing, it's what Jesus has already done. It's not you accomplishing or you persuading, it's simply you receiving the gift. But as many as received him, to them gave thee power to become. You say, I can't be a Christian. No, you can't. You can't do it in your own power. But I'll tell you what, salvation will make you a different person And God's grace will show his power working in your life. And there's peace. Pardoning peace. But then there's personal peace. God gives personal peace. You know there are multitudes of people who know the pardoning peace of God. I pray it's all here this morning. God knows, you know. Multitudes know that peace. They know that peace. They're not afraid to die. They're not afraid to live. They know the peace that God's given them because they're justified by faith. By the way, that peace grows the more you know what God says. I know some of God's little children that have doubts and fear. And you know what you trace it back to? They don't know what God says. It's the blood of Jesus that makes me safe. It's the Bible that makes me sure. When I know what the Bible says, and I understand, I believe what it says, it gives me that assurance that I need. But then this personal peace, and we know that for the believer. Philippians 4:7 says, And the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Jesus Christ. Or through Christ Jesus. That's that personal peace. God says, I'm going to give you peace. And by the way, when do you need peace? You need peace when you're in a storm. It's what God did for Paul when he was sailing to Rome, and it looked like the ship was gonna sink. And the Lord stood by him, said Paul. You don't need to worry, be of good cheer. You're going to go to Rome and you're going to preach there, and the Lord told him they were all going to make it. And Paul said, well, sirs I just believe God that it shall be even as it was told unto me. And what did he have? He had peace. He had peace. I'm glad in the storms of life God gives peace. I'm glad that in the difficulties and the trials and the troubles that God gives us peace. We don't understand it. It's supernatural in its origin. It comes from the Lord. I was just thinking, for whatever reason, the other day, my wife and I were were dating. We were in Bible college. We were going to Bible college at night, and I was working on the farm and I was sleeping about three hours a night and doing that seven days a week. And even though I was young, it caught up to me. And driving home from school one night, I went to sleep driving. We hit a guardrail, cut a nearly brand new car right in half. And it was just the goodness of God that spared both of our lives. And when the we got off that guardrail, we I don't know what happened, but it jumped off the guardrail, it still held together enough to spin around and land back in the highway. And Elizabeth was out, and so I was trying to get out of the car, and I remember getting out of the car, and at first I was in a panic. You know, when things happen like that, you you know you a lot of crazy things go through your mind. I remember first looking, she's breathing, I said, Well, she's alive. Thank the Lord. I look I I th I think I'm I I'm alive, I'm conscious, I know what's going on, so I must be alive. And then I stop and I think, oh no. Her daddy's gonna kill me That honest to goodness, that was the first thought I had. I survived the wreck, but I'm not going to survive what's coming Man, when I got to make that phone call that we just had an accident, your daughter's been involved. I thought, I am one, I'm a dead man walking. And there's all kinds of fear running through my mind. And I remember getting right to where the emblem of that old, it was a Buick. I remember getting right to where that emblem was on the front of that car. And just like that, God's peace came. And I can't describe it other than it was just supernatural peace. It was as if God said, everything's okay. I didn't hear an audible voice. I didn't see flashing lights other than the police coming. I didn't listen, it wasn't anything spectacular, it was something God put in my heart. And listen, the peace of God will pass understanding. It don't make sense when you're lying in a hospital bed or when you're facing it what seems to be imminent death. Or when you're looking at a situation impossible, but when God says all is well, all is well. I'm talking about giving glory to God for peace. And this peace, they said, this on-earth peace, this personal peace that God brings, only Jesus can bring it. Then I want you to see something about the promised feast because Isaiah said he's the Prince of Peace Isaiah chapter 9, you remember those beautiful names. I I tried to camp there. I thought that's where the Lord let me preach all uh this season, but but I never got back. I can't get out of Luke 2. We've been camping there. But nevertheless, he said he's wonderful. He's the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace That's who he is. A promised peace. You say, what when will that peace come? Listen, this earth knows nothing of it at this point. And by the way, it will not know anything of peace until Jesus steps down on this earth. I don't care how many treaties are signed, how many agreements are made, how many times they sit down and they do they uh discuss the means of listen, there will be no peace on this earth till Jesus comes. But when Jesus comes, he will bring peace. By the way, have you noticed everywhere he goes he brings peace. When he comes to the person, he brings peace. When he comes to the home, he brings peace. I'm thinking of a home right now. When the the dear man got saved, his wife got saved first, then he got saved. That home was like a military war zone. You never heard or seen so much fighting and carrying on in your whole life. My goodness, they were always into something, uh upset about something, fighting over something. I bet there wasn't a pane of glass in that house that hadn't been broke. I know there weren't no dishes that hadn't been. And thankfully they they got smart enough to get those you can't break. So they just they th they threw them plastic ones back and forth and it was terrible. And she got saved. Well you know what that did? It made him mad. And he got worse. And he he got so bad that he got to the place he burnt their house down. And then God saved him. And when God saved him, that dear man, he went back, he built his house. Men of the church said, We'll help you. He said, No, I was the fool that burnt it down. I'm going to be the fool that builds it back. And it took him a long time he built that house. She had left him. He had gotten so crazy she had left him, but she watched. And sure enough, over time, she said, I believe he got saved. And God put that little home back together. And what was a picture of hell on earth became a picture of heaven. Just a little bit of heaven. Both those people are still living. They've been married now 68 years, I think. And I've been to that home many times, and I'll tell you what, it's like walking just a little step or two in heaven. They love the Lord, they love each other. I'm gonna tell you something. Religion won't do that. I don't care how many denominations you join up with. It cannot bring peace. But where Jesus goes, Jesus brings peace. And when Jesus comes to this earth, you mark it down. He's going to bring peace. He'll put down the man of sin. He 'll put down the powers of hell. In fact, one angel will bind the devil and cast him into the pit, and I'm here to tell you there's going to be peace like there's never been peace before. You know why? Because he's the prince of all peace. What these angels sing about. They sung about the the the praises of God. They gave praise this message was a message of praise. It was a message of peace. And quickly let me say this. It was a message of pleasure. Notice what it says here. Goodwill. Toward men. That's a neat little word because it literally means God has taken pleasure in mankind and shown him favor. God's taken pleasure. There's something here pleasing to the Lord. It's as if when that baby was put in the manger, heaven smiled on earth. Heaven smiled on earth. God is smiling upon the earth. What's God pleased with? Surely He's not pleased with man's sin. We know that the Bible tells us he hates iniquity. He's angry with the wicked every day. We know that our God doesn't smile upon sin. We know that our God doesn't smile upon the suffering. It was a time of great suffering on this earth. God doesn't smile upon the sorrows of mankind. Earth is full of sorrow. You don't have to look far to see it. What did he what pleased God? I believe it pleased God to give his son. He's smiling because Jesus was born. The Bible tells us that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. You know what he's doing? He's smiling on heaven, because that son 's been born. That provision's been made. That lamb's been provided. The question of sin has been settled in the person of the Lord Jesus. You may not be saved, and you may think you're saved, or you you may be a member or you may be religious, but listen, my friend, until you've trusted Jesus and Jesus alone, the question of your sin has yet to be answered. God smiled because his son. He was pleased to give his son. Do you know Isaiah says something that's hard to understand? Isaiah 53 says it pleased God to bruise him. It pleased God. It pleased God to bruise him. I don't understand that. And I'm gonna tell you, I know what it says, I know what it means, but it's hard for me to get my head around that it pleased God to bruise him. All I can understand is that our God was so pleased to bruise him instead of me, that he punished him in my place. That Jesus became that propitiation. He's not only a mercy seat, he's the blood on the mercy seat, he's the sacrifice. Listen, it pleased God to to to take his son and nail him on a cross So that you could be saved by the good grace and mercy of God. Heaven smiled when that baby was born Because here, here would be God's provision for man's sin. Don't tell me he don't love you. You look the devil in the face and tell him he's a liar. The devil says, Well, if he loved you, why'd you laugh so hard? If he loves you, why'd all this bad stuff happen? If he loves you, you go on and fill the blanks. Listen to me. He loves you. Look at Calvary. He loves you. Look at Jesus He loves you. Listen, he didn't make demands upon upon you for your sin. He made demands upon Jesus. He put it on him. It pleased him to bruise him. He who knew no sin became our sin. Then I want you to notice it pleases God to pardon through him. Hebrews 7, 25 says, wherefore He is able to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, that's Jesus, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. It pleases God to pardon through the Lord Jesus. You know, some people, we live in an entitled age, don't we? People think the world owes them something. Or that everybody owes them something. And I want to remind you of something: if you get what God owes you, you'll be forever in hell. The wages of sin is what? Death. That's what I've earned. That's what God owes me. But I'm glad my Bible says if I come to Him, there's pardon. There's a forgiveness that's offered in the person of Jesus Christ. I think sometimes saved people get to thinking that God owes us a pardon. We get to thinking, you know, God got a pretty good thing when he got me. I'll tell you what, you got the better end of the deal. I'll tell you what I earned and what you've earned. That's our spot in hell. But he saves to the uttermost them. That come to God by Him. When I come through Him, when I come through Jesus, you know, the only good thing about any of us is Jesus. We need to remember that. You can be saved a hundred years and live a good life and do all sorts of wonderful things, but none of that pleases God like Jesus. It's only Jesus Christ that brought pardon for your sin. And listen, when you and I stand before him, the only pardon that is accepted in the glory world is the pardon that comes through the person of Jesus Christ. Oh, listen, it pleases God to pardon through his son. Now look, you can join every Baptist church in the country. You can be baptized until the tadpoles know your social security number. You can light every candle until you set the world aflame. You can do all the religious rituals and you can do as the Bible says, give your body to be burned, give all your clothes away. You can do all these wonderful things, but none of that will bring pardon. The only thing God pardons man over is his son. And God forgives because of his son. When I bow my knee and trust Christ as my Savior, listen, God pardoned all my sin, not because I prayed, not because I bowed, not because I cried, but because I trusted Jesus. He pardons on the grounds of Jesus Christ. He pardons you on the grounds of Jesus Christ. And listen, you say I feel so low down. I'm such a failure as a Christian. I disappoint the Lord. Well, can I just say get in line? And get on your knees and talk to God because you are still pardoned through Jesus. It's Jesus Christ that God recognizes. When you bow your head to pray and call upon the Lord, it's not because you're talking, it's because you're coming through Jesus. And when he sees you, he sees his Son. That's where the pardon is. In these large chicken houses. They put these little red sunglasses on these chickens. Have you ever seen them? It's an amazing thing. I've seen these bigger chicken houses. They'll have thousands and thousands of birds. And uh man, they're cool looking chickens. They all have red sunglasses, you know. They snap right here on their little snouts and and uh and they walk around. I remember my pastor was down in Florida one time and man owned some chicken houses and took him in there. And he's like, well I guess ch uh chickens in Florida are cool chickens, you know, because they all get to wear sunglasses. He said, no, Ralph, these have a purpose. Because these birds, if they see, if you didn't do that to them and you've got them confined in this building. These birds, if if one gets pecked and maybe a feather comes out and he starts to bleed, then all the others will start pecking that bird and they'll peck him to death. And in houses where they don't do this, there'll be several dozens and maybe even hundreds of birds die in the course of their time because they'll peck each other to death. But he said if you put these glasses on them, everything they see is is colored. And so if a bird gets hurt and he bleeds, then then they're not going to peck at him because Everything's the same color. He said it's like they're looking through those glasses and and all the birds are covered in blood. All the birds are are are are are bloody in color and and so it's just normal, it's natural, and they don't pick 'em apart. And I thought, what a picture of Christ. Look, when he sees you, he don't see you as you see you. He sees the blood. If you're saved by God's grace, he doesn't see you as your failures, he doesn't see you in your sin. He doesn't see you in your struggle. He sees you under the blood of his darling son. It'd be good for us to see each other under that same blood. It'd be good to look at each other and say, that's a brother in Christ washed in the blood of Jesus. Oh, he ain't perfect yet. Why? Because he's not in heaven. He'll get perfect one day when he gets home, but he's not perfect yet. But I'll tell you what, if he's under the blood, he's one of his And listen, that pardon can only come. God was pleased. God's pleased when he sees the blood and he sees that person under the blood of his son. No wonder the angels say , How could they be quiet about this? I don't know about you, but we need to join them. May God help us this morning. I I don't know about you, but I sometimes get tired of just going through the motion. Another Christmas, another Christmas message, another Christmas special, another Christmas play, another Christmas. Folks, salvation's real. Jesus Christ has done for us something nobody else could do. Don't get bored. If you're bored with it, shame on you. Get right with God. Listen, some folks are so so intoxicated with the world, they can't enjoy the sobriety of salvation in Jesus Christ. Set up last night till midnight watching some filthy show or sitting around enjoying the filth of this world and not one thought given to the God of heaven who gave his son. Get your heart right with the Lord. Get your sin under the blood. Get to the place you can say, Lord, I'm glad you came, because if you hadn't come, I'd be dead in my trespasses and sin. Get to the place where you can rejoice again. Some of God's little children are so out of sorts with other of God's little children that they can't enjoy the God who made them his children. Get your heart right with God. It may be that we've let the trappings of the season rob us of the joy Of what it's all about. It's not about the presence. It's not about the gatherings. It's not about all the pressure that comes. It's about Jesus. Jesus Christ was born. Let's get back to the place where we can join with one accord with the angels and sing, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. If you're not saved this morning, you can be. It's not his fault. He died on the cross. He shed his blood. He hung there and suffered in your place. They buried him, he was dead. But three days later he rose. And he's alive. And he'll save anybody and everybody who will call on the name of the Lord. That means you. Friends, you don't need a ceremonial experience. You need to just honestly in your heart cry out. And no plea for mercy goes ignored. When you see yourself a sinner, Jesus as the Savior, Lord save me, that's all it takes. It's a simple little child, little old child. And a very old person. Don't matter. You can be born again. And my dear friend, if you're a Christian today, is your heart right with the Lord? Are you right with God? Are you where you need to be? Are you walking with Christ? Are you close to Him? Can you say, there's nothing between my soul and my Savior? There's nothing between me and my fellow man. I want to live in a way to please the Lord. Are you doing that? Is that joy? Is the joy of heaven yours? You might be sitting here and the thing on your mind is, I can't wait to get out of here and eat my dinner. I can't wait till that preacher shuts his mouth so I can go my way. Well, you'll go your way. But oh God help you in your way. Oh, listen, the greatest thing, choir said it better than I could ever say it. The greatest gift is Jesus. Let's stand together. You need to pray this morning. Our pianos is going to come begin