Would you open your Bibles with me this evening to the book of Ephesians, chapter number two? Ephesians chapter number two, and I want to read a familiar passage starting in verse number 19. Ephesians chapter 2, and we'll read from verses 19 down to 22. And I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please, and we'll honor God's word together in this way. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse number 19, look what your Bible says. It says, Now therefore, ye are no more strangers and foreigners. But fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone. In whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord, in whom ye also are builded together for an habitation of God through the Spirit. Lord helping me this evening, I want you to think about and look at this truth of fitting into the family. Fitting into the family. Let's pray together. Father, we bow just now again and ask for your help. Very much aware, Lord, that we're deserving of nothing. But we come, Lord, pleading thy grace and pleading thy mercy And Lord, rejoicing in your goodness that you would pour out both grace and mercy upon the likes of us. Lord, would you help us, please? Would you open both the mouth of the preacher and the ear of the hearer and have your way, Lord, as we study together. Would you help us to see things, Lord, that only you can help us see? Lord, would you help me to communicate those things that are in my heart that, Lord, quite honestly, it seems well-nigh impossible to get across. But Lord in mercy, somehow, Lord, I believe you can communicate what seems impossible to communicate And would you work in our hearts for your glory and for your glory alone? And we'll thank you for what you do, for we pray and ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated The book of Ephesians is a very powerful and deep book in the Word of God. Some have called the book of Ephesians the Alps of the New Testament. There's such lofty truth here. And I believe these verses we just read together are verses that contain a whole lot of lofty truth. It's very difficult to put into language, but I'm asking the Lord to help me to do that. As we think about what he's describing here as fitting in the family. The church is something quite unique. In fact, it's it's the most unique thing on the earth. When you think about the church, it's like no other thing. It's not an organization because it's not a dead structure. It's a living body. And as a living body, it's ever developing and it's ever growing and it's ever learning how to function the way God put it together to function. And I want you to think with me about a few things that are pointed out here in the text. I want you to notice first off, in verse number 19, he describes our place. We might look at this and call this our position. And you'll notice he starts from with the word therefore, and I believe that goes all the way back in chapters 1 and chapter 2 and brings it all together and says, now because of all of that. And if I could just summarize, which it's mighty hard to do, but if I could just summarize these two chapters, I believe it would be summed up in verse number eight. Ephesians chapter 2 verse 8 says, For by grace are you saved, through faith and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God Not of works, lest any man should boast. For we're his workmanship created in Christ Jesus, unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them And because of that grace that God has demonstrated in our lives, He's put us in a new position There's two things that he addresses here in this verse, and I want you to see them. I think sometimes we don't see them as clearly as they're spelled out in the Bible, but we we do need to see them very clearly. Number one, he talks about our past. And by the way, everybody's got a past. All of God's people have a past. Here's what he's saying here. He's saying, now, therefore, ye are no more strangers and foreigners. He's talking about your past and about mine. And I love those two words, no more. He said, what you were, you are no more. All of that's past. Aren't you glad that you're no more what you once were before the Lord saved you? Now the Lord does that. He's the one that initiates the no more. He says, you're no more strangers, you're no more foreigners. If I could just put it in my word, I would say I'm no more a misfit Because that's what he's describing here, people that just don't fit. And through the whole, well go back just a little bit, look what he how he describes us in our past. In verse 1 of chapter 2, he says, we were dead in trespasses and sins. Now, an unsaved person is dead in their trespasses and sins. They're spiritually dead. That's what he said. That's where we were. Then notice verse number three. He calls us the children of wrath. We were by nature the children of wrath even as others. That's our past. And then you read on in verse number 12, and he says that at that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel. Strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. My, what a description of a person without Christ And that's where we were. That's where you were. If you're not saved, that's the position you found yourself in, and I found myself in. Now, but the key here is that Paul's reminding them: that's no more. That's no more. All that's been put away. All of that's been erased. All of that has been canceled out, and all of that has been removed. How? By the precious blood of Jesus Christ. And the saving grace of God. Now what I was, I am no more. And you know the problem is, I think we often live under the dark shadow of what we once were, forgetting what Christ in love and mercy has made us to be. So he said, You're no more. We're talking about our past. We're no more strangers and no more foreigners. And then he moves quickly to the present and he says, This, but here's what you are. Fellow citizens with the saints, and of the household of God. That's what you are You're fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. In other words, you are part of a kingdom and a family. God's brought you into his kingdom, and he's brought you into his family, and he's taken the no more, put it aside, and now he's brought you into this new position as a child of God. Now you say, Preacher, I just don't feel like that. Well, can I say this? Toss your feelings away. Because what what I am and what you are is not based on what I feel. If you live your life based on what you feel, you're not going to get very far. Because the truth of the matter is, sometimes you feel like something you're not. Sometimes you feel, how many of you always feel saved? I mean 24-7. Would you raise your hand? Well, what's wrong with you? Are you not saved? How many of you feel like you're saved about fifty percent of the time? Would you raise your hand? Well, we're not hitting good tonight, Andy. But let me ask you something. Does that do away with what the Lord's done for you? Does that mean you're not his? I'm not saved simply because I feel like it. I'm saved because of the finished work of Jesus Christ on Calvary. And he says, I again I'm no more a foreigner, I'm no more a stranger, but now I'm a fellow citizen with the saints and of the household of God. I belong in a kingdom and I belong in a family And you say, How did all of that occur? Verse thirteen. Verse thirteen says, But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ That's how that happened. I'm made nigh by the blood of Christ. Notice whose shoulders this falls on. It's not on me and it's not on you, but it's on the Lord Jesus Christ and his precious blood. In Colossians chapter 1, verse 12, we read this. giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light, who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and hath translated us into the kingdom of His dear Son. In whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. He's translated me into the kingdom of his dear son. When you got saved, God snatched you out of the kingdom of darkness and replanted you in the kingdom of His Son. He pulled you out of the dominion of Satan and put you under the family and the blood of the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. He did that again. That is our position in the Lord Jesus when we get born again. And what a joy it is to know that we belong in this kingdom and we belong in this family. This is a great working of the Lord. It's imperative that we recognize that. There was a border crossing we would always take, and at that crossing there was a guard, and I always hoped to get him For several reasons, but one very personal reason, because after he you gave him your U. S. passport He would look at it and he would ask the question, so you're a citizen of the United States? And I said, Yes, sir Then this man would do the most noble thing I've ever seen a man do. He would sort of salute and say, Welcome home, sir. Welcome home. As if to say you're on friendly territory. You're coming among friends. You're coming where you belong. Now, friend, listen to me. I'm glad to report to you from the precious word of God that if you're saved by the grace of God, you've been brought into the kingdom of his dear son You've been brought into a place you say, but preacher, I don't necessarily feel like I fit. Let me report to you on the authority of God's word. That your right to fit in the family is based on the work of Christ on the cross, not upon your feeling or anything else you might try to put in. I've been in places and you have too, where you just didn't fit. Anybody been there where you just didn't fit? And perhaps to fit in among them, you had to have a certain amount of money. Or to fit in among them, you had to be from a particular family. I want to say to you that the local church can never be pleasing to the Lord when those attitudes arise and exist in the body of Christ. Because there's the the reality is that we don't fit based on our economical status, and we do not fit based upon any other uh a thing that we might put as criteria because we belong to a family or this family or that. We fit because Christ in mercy has brought us out of darkness into the light, saved us by grace, and made us a part of the family. And our right to fit in the family is based on the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, you get a hold of that, you'll be grateful, you'll be thankful, and you'll rejoice in the work of Jesus Christ on the cross. Thank God for the position we have in our Lord. It's imperative that we recognize what grace has done. That we recognize, and that's why the church demands and requires and upholds a saved membership Because the only thing that binds us together is the work of God's grace in our hearts. We're not again brought together because of denominational persuasion. We're brought together by divine and amazing grace. That has washed us from our sin and made us fit to be in the family and made us new creatures in Christ Jesus. So know your position. Know your position. I fear some of God's little children live too much under the dark shadow of what God has written over it. No more. No more. Well, preacher, I I used to be. Can I say something to you? Nobody really needs to be concerned about what you used to be. The question is what you are. Are you in Christ? And he said you're no more. What a divine decree. And aren't you glad what God decrees is no more? I don't know about you. How many of you are growing webs between your toes it's rained so much? Isn't this terri isn't this something? The Lord knows it's his weather. I can't do anything about it but just fuss a little and that won't change it either. But boy, if there's some things you could say no more. No more. I remember one late May day, we got three feet of snow at late May, and I said, I am so I I wanted to throw my snow shovel so far And I said, man, no more. I can't take no more. I can say all that. Charlie, I could say no more all I want to, but I'm not going to stop the snow from falling. And I'm not going to stop the rain from falling But I'm glad to report to you when God says no more. It's no more. He said you're no more strangers and you're no more Foreigners, and you're no more dead, and you're no more aliens, and you're no more without God, and no more without hope. He's decreed it past, and it's no more. What a position In the precious Lord Jesus. Number two, I want you to notice our foundation. We move to verse number twenty now and notice this. And are. So that tells me my position is just the beginning. And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone. It's absolutely critical that her foundation be right. If you know anything about building, you know that a foundation is critical. You can have a beautiful building and a poor foundation, and that building means nothing because that foundation won't support it. It won't hold it up. If this building was just simply built on one by three or something like that, this building wouldn't stand very long. But this building has a strong and sure foundation underneath it. This building has a foundation, my friend, that is well able to support the structure that is built upon it. And I want to remind you that the foundation that you and I have is a twofold foundation. It's right here in the text. Look at it Notice the first part of our foundation is of the apostles and the prophets. Now, what's he talking about here? Can I just quickly say he's talking about the scriptures? We're not talking about people. The Lord doesn't build upon individuals. We're not talking about the twelve apostles if we all call them by name, or the prophets if we were to identify them by name. But I believe this is another way of stating the Old and New Testaments. The message communicated by these men. We're not talking about the persons, but the revelation that is given through these instruments who we call apostles and prophets. So the church is built, the local church is built upon the foundation of the scriptures. Paul said it like this: the church is the pillar and ground of the truth. That's what it is. We're a pillar and a ground. What does that mean? That means that the thing that holds everything up. The thing that everything rests upon, the pillar and the ground. It's the scriptures. We're resting on the truth. And my friend, if you take away the truth of the Word of God out of the local church, you cease to be what God intended for the church to be. That's why it's a master stroke of the devil to get us worried about men's feelings and personalities and cultural directions when all of that, my friend, means nothing in comparison to the truth. The church is to be about the truth. If the truth hurts my feelings, so be it. If the truth rubs me the wrong way, I need to turn around and go the other way. But it's the truth that this nation needs to hear. It's the truth that we need to represent. And we have no other business to be here but to be about the truth. Notice that's the purpose of the church. We see our foundation. We're built upon the truth. No wonder religion around us is crumbling and collapsing. It's not built on truth. We're built on I mean we're building today upon uh cultural uh um desires. We're built uh today upon Fads and fashions, you know, things that'll just come and go with the changing of the season. I still laugh. My dad used to wear these ties that I'm sure they wore in 1920 And he would always say, I'd joke about his tie, say, Dad, you need to get that tie narrowed down a little bit. I mean he had those big ones, you know And he he said, son, listen, I've lived long enough in this world to know. If I just wait a while, they'll come back in fashion And he said, I'm not afraid to be a trend setter, so I'll just wear it on. Well, you know the truth is, the truth is, that stuff come right back around. Come right back around. I see these kids today and they'll be wearing something and they think man they've made a new discovery and all you gotta do is do a little historical research and that's something they've worn in the 60s or the 70s and You're looking to think, man, they think they're on to something, don't they? Well, here's the truth of the matter. The church isn't about all that changing stuff. We've got a foundation that's far superior. And it is the foundation of truth The truth of the word of God. And he says, we're built upon. Now your position is as secure as your foundation. Because let me remind you again that your position is a work of grace, and your foundation is because of grace And and it all is dependent upon the Lord. I didn't write the Bible, you didn't write the Bible, and man didn't write the Bible, so I don't have to worry about man changing the Bible because The Bible stands Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. We have a book, my friend, that doesn't need editing. It doesn't need Revising, it doesn't need abridgment, it's the expressed will and truth of God demand, and we just live and stand and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. Culture may change, let it. People may change. You can't do anything about that. But I'm glad the Bible don't change. And like that old song, the Bible stands like a rock undaunted mid the raging waves of time. And my friend, it will stand, and forever shall it stand. When this world's on fire, this Bible will still stand. Truth will be true. And you and I are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Now look at this. Not only is the Scripture our foundation, but we see the Savior. Look what it says. Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. Chief cornerstone. The beauty and the glory and the strength of the church is Jesus. He's superior to men and angels. He alone is to be preeminent. Our faith and our foundation is built upon Him. Can I tell you something you already know? Your pastor will disappoint you. You'll disappoint each other. You go look in the mirror and you'll disappoint that person staring back at you. But I'm gonna tell you one who won't. Jesus Christ. The chief cornerstone. The unchanging factor in all of our lives is Jesus Christ. Oh, listen, my friend, I've lived long enough to know. I remember when we first started out in the ministry, there was a man I looked up to greatly. And then he let me down terribly. And I thought, if I can't trust him, who in the world can I trust? And the Lord said, Me. He's the chief cornerstone. We don't build upon men or ministries. We don't build upon individuals. We don't build upon friends. We build upon our chief cornerstone. Let me remind you that he is the chief cornerstone. And if I understand that word correctly, it means the point where all the structure rests. It's the support that all the structure puts its weight on. It's that keystone, if you'll let me say it like that. And it if you take that away, everything collapses Our foundation is both sure and steadfast. Now look, we may be shook down to the foundation, but the foundation won't move. When all around my soul gives way, he then is all my hope and stay. On Christ the solid rock I stand. All other ground is sinking sand. Oh, my friend, there's a good foundation under the people of God. There's a good foundation. And you and I need to realize this evening as we try to fit into the family that God's established our position and God has established our foundation and and really neither of those can be altered by man or any other circumstance God has determined it forever. Now quickly, notice our purpose. Verse 21 and 2, we read these words: In whom? That's in the chief cornerstone. That's in Jesus Christ. All the building fitly framed together groweth unto a holy temple in the Lord I want you to notice the two things here. That word groweth in verse 21, verse 22, in whom ye also are builded together for inhabitation of God through the Spirit. Two words, groweth and habitation. That's our purpose. We've got a purpose tonight. Notice the purpose first deals with progress, grow with. Now what kind of growth is he talking about? Not numerical. The fact is you you can't find the numerical growth in this. That doesn't mean we don't have a vision. There's a missionary. If I called his name, you'd know him. He's praying with me. Here's his prayer. He sat on this platform and he says, I see more red than I want to see. Now if you've ever been on this platform, you look back that way. If you see an empty pew, you see red. That's what he's talking about. And every once in a while he'll ask me, How red is the sanctuary? You know what we're praying? We're praying for God to do to abolish the red. To cover the red. You know what I'm saying? We've got a vision. But listen, we're not talking about this this growth, this pro this purpose that were described here in Ephesians chapter number two is not not numerical in nature. Notice the the growth that he's talking about. Number one, in whom? We're growing in a person. We're growing in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And can I say this? This church is only it's as strong as each one of us individually are growing in the likeness of Jesus Christ. As we individually are being transformed into the likeness. Now listen, friend, you and I we can't uh we can't say, well, uh what I do is my own business Well the Lord bless you, that may be the way you think, but that's not the way God works. You're a part of a body. You're no more a foreigner or a stranger. You're a fellow citizen of the household of God. You're a part of this new kingdom and this new family And you're obligated to be a functioning member or functioning individual who's growing in likeness to Jesus Christ for the good of the body if for no other reason. I was thinking today, what if you know who little Tyler is What if my big old body was on little legs like Tyler 's? I'd be a mutant-looking little thing, wouldn't I? And and look, I couldn't get around. I mean, there's no way those little old legs could carry all this. That you don't need to know the details about. But there's no way. And so your body's got to grow in proportion, is what I'm saying. We've got to grow proportionately if we're effective and progressing. And you know something? God wants every one of us to be growing in Him, in Christ, and growing in likeness to our Lord and Savior. Not only do I see the person, but look again at this positioning. He said, in whom all the building fitly framed together. Do you see that? God standing and situating the saints so that they will perfectly work together. And it's not a work of the day, it's a work of a lifetime. I know we sing in Sunday school, but I think we ought to resurrect it to the services. He's still working on me to make me what I ought to be. And although it took him just a week to make the moon and the stars, the sun and the earth and Jupiter and Mars, how loving and patient he must be because he's still working on me. He's sanding and situating and positioning and putting me, I was working on something, and it just didn't fit right And I wanted it to fit right. I didn't want it to leave that shop till it just looked just right. And I sanded it a while and the sanding didn't work and I I took another tool and I and I worked some of the the wood off. It still didn't look right to me. I took my carving knife and I just Cut to where you couldn't hardly tell I had taken anything and then I sanded it again and when it came together it fit just like a glove. I said that's what I'm looking for And you know something? The Lord's doing that in your life. The work of sanctification that's taken place in you and me is so that we can be fitly framed together. He's working on us. He's working on each of us. And my friend, listen to me. He's doing things in our lives so that we will be fitly framed together. And then notice this: groweth unto a holy temple in the Lord. I remind you that we are a representation of the Lord Jesus in flesh and blood. And he calls us in Peter's letter, 1 Peter 2, verse 5, he calls us lively stones that are built together for a habitation of God. Do you know what he's doing in this local church? He's trying to work on us all in such a way that we will be a good representation of the Lord Jesus Christ. And sometimes he's got to pull out the sandpaper of conviction and cut that knot off that just won't lay right, or he takes that knife and he cuts away that bigger portion And he says that won't do. And he begins to work. What's he doing? He's fitly framing together the body so that we'll grow. So that we'll grow unto a holy temple in the Lord. A fitting representation of the Lord Jesus. Not only do I want you to see that statement groweth, but I want you to see this habitation. The thing groweth speaks of progress, but the word habitation speaks of presence. In verse 22 it says, In whom, again, back in Christ, ye also are builded together for an habitation of God through the Spirit. Do you notice how everything goes back to Jesus? Everything relates back to the person of Jesus Christ. Please understand this. We often put too much emphasis on things God never emphasizes. The thing that God wants you to be in fellowship or see that you need to be in fellowship with is the Lord Jesus. We think, we think, if all my friends are pleased, I'm okay. That may not be true. If all my church family's happy, then everything's alright. That's not true. Some might even say, well, if the pastor's happy, that's okay. I've got news for you, my friend. The final word is him, the person of the Lord Jesus Christ, and my spirituality always goes back to him. It's relative to who he is and what he's doing in my life. It's in whom. Now notice this, in whom ye also are builded together. Now, God works on the individual for the sake of the whole. He's doing something in your life and in mine, and it's all simultaneous. God's doing something. He's working in our lives for the benefit of the whole. He's growing us together. He's building us together. Now, here's the crown jewel of this text for a habitation of God through the Spirit. God wants to live in his people, he wants to live in a living church. He wants your arms to be his arms and your eyes to be his eyes and your feet to be his feet. He wants you and I to be that place where the the Spirit of God dwells, where the person, the presence of God And do you know something? The most precious thing about a church is the it's the place where God lives among his people. He lives in his people and he manifests himself to his people. There's a royal guest that we ought to be concerned about above all others. John rather describes him there in Ephesians, or excuse me, in Revelation. And John said he was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and he saw one. And boy, when he saw him. Now he was exiled from all others, but I'm grateful he wasn't exiled from the Lord. And he saw the Lord, and that's what made all the difference. And I'm I'm here to tell you, my friend, we can have the building and we can have the people and we can have the choir. And we can have a message and we can have all of this, but if we don't have his presence, we have nothing. The most critical factor of any church is that it is a habitation of God through the Spirit. That it be the place where God dwells and can manifest himself among his people. So once again, all that really matters is relative to him. Is he pleased? That's all that matters. Is he pleased? That's all that matters. We've turned this thing around and we've made church about what we want. We've made church about what we like. And people say, well, I want a contemporary church or I want a traditional church. Let me ask you something. When's the last time have you opened your Bible and said, Now Lord, what kind of church do you want? What pleases you? That's all that matters Is he pleased? Is he present? Are we making progress of a spiritual kind? That's all that matters. Now look, a thousand other things may take place and will take place. This might be a news flash for some of you, but you might get your feelings hurt But let me say this as kind as I can. That really don't matter so long as he's pleased and he's present and there's spiritual progress. Oh, but preacher, look, I got criticized Well , can I just say if you're going to be a Christian in this world, you're going to be criticized? And not all the rocks are going to come from the devil's crowd. But does that matter? I mean, does it really matter in light of is he pleased? Is he present? Are we making spiritual progress? Well, preacher, I've just been disappointed. I've been let down. I mean, go on, we can make this list quite long, but there's no need to. I'm saying there's a thousand and one things that can enter into our lives that that that we could make much larger than what they need to be. What's ne what needs to be large around here? What needs to be important? I'll tell you what needs to be large and important. Is he pleased? Is he present? Are we making spiritual progress? Friend, that's all that matters. That's what's important. And by the way, here's the beauty of it: God uses those disappointments. And God uses those criticisms. And God uses those letdowns. And you know what he does with them? He makes us more like Jesus. It's heavenly sandpaper working on the heart of the saint. And God's using all of that. Oh, I know you're like me. I've said, Lord, I wish you'd use something else. I wish you'd use something else, but sadly there's nothing else. In fact, oftentimes it's just those things that is required so that I'll see the significance of is he pleased, is he present? Is uh are we making spiritual progress? All of those things, my friend, are critical, and he uses those things, those difficult things, those million other things that come our way and they make us stop and say, now what's really important here? What's really important? I'm reminded of old Elijah Ross. He was a Mountain preacher back home and Elijah uh grew older and was unable to preach. He physically began to fail. He could still go to church, but Sadly, in his time, his church began to go another way. And that old man would sit on the pew of this church and weep because they didn't use the word of God. And he would weep because They weren't preaching the truth as it is in Jesus. And many around there would say, Elijah, won't you just go somewhere else? He said, I just can't. He said, I feel like God's not through here, and God's put me here, and I'm just praying. And you know, before that dear old man died, he God used him, I believe, to pray revival to that church. And I'm sure all those disappointments must have broken his heart and all those difficulties that he faced. I mean, he was enemy number one. All because he loved God and he loved the Word. But somehow he kept his eyes on what really mattered. And God used that dear man. And that work today is a shining light in a dark old community, because one old gentleman understood God had put him in a place For a purpose and was working out his plan. And you know, he said I got more help than anybody because the Lord used it to teach men, grow men, help me. I'm just saying tonight, church, that God's doing things that are critical and important. And I don't always understand all that he's doing, but here's what I know: my position in Christ is secure. My foundation's unmovable. His purposes are immutable. He will fulfill His will. Here's what he said. Here's another way of putting it. He said, I will build my church. That's what he said. And you know what? Sometimes all I've got is what he said. But isn't that enough? What more could you want? He said, I'll build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Thank God we have a Savior who's in charge. And he's using all the ups and downs and ins and outs and failures and pro and he's putting it all together. And here's what we know. All things work together for what? For good. He's the one that's fashioning it and using it to make us more like him and helping us remember it. What matters? Is he pleased? Is he present? Are we making spiritual progress? That's all that matters. Come what may. Father, I wish