Amen. No matter what circumstance you are in life, and there are many different circumstances that we go through, situations. There's a lot of variables in life, but the faithfulness of God is not one of them. There's no variableness in Him at all, neither shadow of turning. Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, today, and forever. And uh no wonder he's called a rock in a weary land. In a world full of change, he is the changeless one. And uh you say, why doesn't the Lord change? Well, he's never had the need to. Amen. When you're perfect, you don't have to change. And um I'm thankful that we can have confidence in him. That's why we believe this Bible is the perfectly preserved Word of God. Because uh he's changeless and so his word is changeless. Now there are those who try to corrupt the word of God. And uh they think they can twist it and they can change it, but it's forever settled in heaven. No matter what they try to do to it down here, I was listening to a little clip today somebody sent me of some debate that was going on and I I don't have any use really for debates But uh the uh it was just shocking that the man he made the statement and uh I hope he's saved. I don't know, that's between him and the Lord, but he's a preacher. He made this statement. He said that he believed it was a sin, a sin, to teach your children the King James Bible. I was flabbergasted by that. A man who supposedly believes in the Word of God and he used the Bible Our Bible, to try to say that our Bible wasn't sufficient for children, because they couldn't understand it. Well listen, a child who knows the Lord has got the Spirit of God in them. And He can make us understand. He can make them understand. You know, Paul told Timothy, from a child. From a child. Thou hast learned the holy scriptures. And uh our God's big enough to make himself known even to a little child. As a matter of fact, you know, you hear the statement all the time or the question all the time, well, you know, how how old does a child have to be uh before they can be saved? And uh you know there's a lot of debate back and forth, you know, uh how old do they have to be? Well maybe the better question is how young do you have to be? Because the Lord said you need the faith of a child. Amen. And uh fa listen, children are good at believing. They're good at faith. It's us older ones that have trouble with faith most of the time. And you know, simple faith in the Word of God, simple faith that Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so. Simple faith in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, how he who knew no sin became sin for us, so that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. All of that is simple One of the most powerful verses in all the Bible is filled with one-syllable words. He that hath the Son hath life. And he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. That's pretty simple, isn't it? Really comes down to whether you've got Jesus or not. And the child can understand that. Aren't you glad? These scriptures are sufficient. And no matter your age, no matter your upbringing No matter your race, no matter your ethnicity, no matter your background, the Word of God has the answer for your life. And I thank God for that. Second Samuel chapter three tonight in our Bible. Second Samuel chapter three. Again, thank you for your care for us this week. And uh we've enjoyed everything you brought along and enjoyed the fellowship and we stood here down here and talked last night, Pastor and I and a few other guys, and we talked about ten o'clock I got done preaching, I thought, well, it's going to be an early night. But then we just stuck stood around and fellowshiped for a while, amen. And that's important. That's important. And so we've enjoyed it all. We appreciate it. 2 Samuel chapter 3 Found your place, I invite you to stand with me as we read the text. 2 Samuel chapter 3. Beginning in verse number 27, we'll read just a few verses down to verse through verse 34. 2 Samuel 3, verse 27. The Bible says, and when Abner was returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside in the gate to speak with him quietly. And smote him there under the fifth rib that he died, for the blood of Asahel his brother. And afterward, when David heard it, he said, I and my kingdom are guiltless before the Lord forever from the blood of Abner the son of Ner. Let it rest on the head of Joab, and on all his father's house, and let there not fail from the house of Joab one that hath an issue. Or that is a leper, or that leaneth on a staff, or that falleth on the sword, or that lacketh bread. So Joab and Abishai his brother slew Abner Because he had slain their brother Asahel at Gibeon in the battle. And David said to Joab and all the people that were with him, Rend your clothes. And gird you with sackcloth and mourn before Abner. And King David himself followed the beer. And they buried Abner in Hebron. And the king lifted up his voice and wept at the grave of Abner, and all the people wept. And the king lamented over Abner and said , Died Abner as a fool dieth. Thy hands were not bound, nor thy feet put into fetters. As a man falleth before wicked men, so fallest thou. And all the people wept again over him. I want to preach tonight on Abner. And how he died as a fool. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the day you've given us. Thank you, God, for your love for us, and thank you for your faithfulness. Thank you for the precious blood of the Lord Jesus Christ that was shed for us, that we might have forgiveness of sins. That we may experience restored fellowship with you and be added to your family. Those of us who once were sin uh sons of The wicked one, now we are sons of God, children of God by faith in Jesus Christ. And Lord, I pray tonight there's someone here, or more than one here tonight, Lord. Who has never trusted Christ as her own personal Lord and Savior. Father, I pray that you would once again, Lord, urge upon them the seriousness of this matter. Lord, I pray that their hearts would be dealt with by the Spirit of God. Lord, I pray that you'd answer the questions in their minds tonight or in their hearts. Father, I pray that you would bring them to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. May they, by their own choice and free will, trust alone what Jesus Christ has done for them, for the saving of their soul. And Lord, I pray that you would grant mercy to those who are hurting tonight. Lord, I think of those who have lost loved ones and even today. God comfort that family and strengthen them and many others going through loss. We're reminded that this life is like a vapor. It appeareth for a little while, but vanisheth away. God, I pray that you would just uh speak to our hearts from your word now. May Jesus Christ be exalted. I pray the devil would be bound. And I pray, dear God, that the Word of God would have free course in this place tonight. And we'll thank you and praise you and give you all the glory for it. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Thank you for standing. You may be seated. We kind of jumped in the middle of this story, or really at the end of the story of Abner. And if you're not familiar with Abner, Abner was a great man. He was a powerful man. He was a cousin to King Saul, who was the first king over Israel. He was Saul's top general during his reign. He was wise in matters of warfare. He carried heavy influence over the nation of Israel to the point that when Saul was killed in battle and the heir to the throne, Jonathan was also killed in battle. It was Abner who preserved the kingdom of Israel and set up one of the other sons of Saul, Ishbosheth, on the throne. Really, Ishbosaf was just a figurehead. Abner was the real power behind the kingdom. He was the brains and the brawn of the outfit. And so people look at Abner, they would not think Abner as a fool. They would look at him as a wise man, as a powerful man, as someone who had it all together. Someone who uh was very uh influential and and uh a very important person. But now Abner has uh realized that the kingdom belongs to David And it is his great desire to bring the kingdom, unite the kingdom together under the rule of David. And so he has gone to meet with David. To try to hammer out the details of bring uh bringing the kingdom back together, uniting the the northern and the southern tribes into one kingdom He meets with David, Joab, David's top general, is not there at the at the time in Hebron And so when Joab returns, Abner has already left, he's already gone, he's gone about his mission to try to bring the kingdom to David, and Joab hears about what's happened, and Joab sees an opportunity. As we've read in the text, Joab will conspire and bring that conspiracy to fruition. He will kill Abner, the Bible tells us, for the blood of Asahel his brother. And so you say, what does this mean? Well, Abner had slain Asahel, the brother of Joab, in battle. At Gibeon. We read about that in verse number 30. And so Joab is looking for an opportunity to revenge the blood of his brother. This was something that was covered under the law that God had given to Israel. It's something that he established way back in the book of Genesis. where he said that if a man sheds another man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed. And expounded upon in the law concerning uh the uh bloodshed and the the laws regarding that. We'll look at that a little bit more detail in just uh just a few minutes. But I want us to think of right now the fact that when Abner dies, David uh mourns him And he makes this statement in verse 33. It's in the form of a question, but it is a rhetorical question. In verse 33, the king lamented over Abner and said, Died Abner As a fool dieth. And he explains, he said his hands weren't bound, his feet weren't in feathers. He just fell before wicked men. And what he's saying is Abner did not have to die this way He's saying that Abner was not wise, and in his lack of wisdom, in his foolishness, he paid for that with his life. A fool is one who is destitute of reason or wisdom. And here, Abner, he was wise in many different ways in life But here on this day, his last day of life, he died because he was foolish But I want us to look at this tonight, this story, and see uh the uh the truths that we might see from this story for ourselves here tonight. We do understand that it is appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. This is the truth that is born by Scripture, but also history proves to be very true and very consistent. Everybody has a birthday and everybody has a death day. And so we know that we're going to die, the Bible, as we quoted during the prayer time. The Bible says that our life, he asked the question in the book of James, what is our life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little while and then vanisheth away. And that is that is life. And you know, the older you get, the more you see the truth of that statement. It seems like the days fly by faster. And faster, don't they? And the weeks and the months and the years. Uh there's just uh uh Job said the days of man, they're like a weaver's shuttle You ever saw a Weaver shuttle? Well that thing moves so fast you can o you can't even really discern the movements of that shuttle. That's the way life is. Especially when you compare it to eternity. This life, in comparison to eternity, is not even a drop in a bucket And so this day of death, we're all appointed to that. We have an appointment with that. And there may be may be many appointments that you make and break, that you make and miss, but my friend, your appointment with death you will keep. Abner died on this day, as we all will die, but Abner died as a fool. I don't want to die as a fool. You don't have to die as a fool. We look at this foolishness, and why did David make this statement about Habner dying as a fool? There's three things I want to point out tonight And I'll try to be brief, but I want to bring the message that God has given me tonight. The first thing about this foolishness, I believe that Abner was foolish regarding the cunning of his enemy. The cunning of his enemy. Joab, very plain and simple, Joab tricked Abner, didn't he? He set it up so that it appeared that he wanted to talk to him about something, but Joab did not have talking in mind. Joab had one thing in mind. He wanted to bring revenge against Abner for the blood of his brother Asahel, and he wanted Abner to die. Can I remind you this evening that the devil is not to be trifled with? The devil is a serious enemy. There's a move, it seems, in our day, in our culture, in particular, it seems, of late, to paint the devil as some kind of lovable, mischievous figure. But my friend, the fact of the matter is, the devil is a murderer, he is a liar, he seeks to destroy you. And he wants nothing more than to drag your soul down to hell with him. So why would the devil hate me? I haven't been a problem to him. I haven't been a trouble to him. I haven't been fighting against him. Why would the devil hate me? I'll tell you why the devil hates you and why the devil wants to destroy you. Because you are created in the image of God. And the devil hates God, and the devil hates everything that's connected with God. And the devil, listen, tonight, if the devil could, he'd kill God. But he can't. And so he wants to settle for the closest thing to God's heart to destroy, and that's you. He wants to destroy you. And listen, he's not going to come at you with a pitchfork and horns and and fire. He's going to come to you as an angel of light. He's going to appear to you as someone that cares about you. He's going to get in your ear, young people. This is what he's going to say to you. Well, you know, if your parents really loved you, they wouldn't put so many restrictions on you You know why he's telling you that? So you get out from under their protection. So he can have his way in your life. So he can r uh destroy you and ruin you. He hates you. Don't believe his smooth speech. Here's Abries coming back when when when he left uh uh uh uh Hebron there. When he left Hebron, he's going out on a good mission to try to bring the kingdom to David. And Joab finds out that Abner's left, and he sends messengers after him. Hey, tell Abner to come back here. Tell Abner to come back here. I've got something I need to tell him. He was lying. And notice when Abner comes back, you see what takes place here in verse 27. When Abner was returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside in the gate to speak with him quietly. Hey, come here. Come here, Abner. Come here, I got something to tell you. He lured him away. Away from safety, away from David, away from the mission that he was on. He lured him away off to the side so that he could strike him with that knife and kill him And listen, my friend, the devil hates you. He wants to kill you. He wants to destroy you. He wants you to suffer forever in the lake of fire. But it's not God's will that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. God will have all men to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth. He wants to save you. The devil wants to destroy you. The cunning of his enemy We're told in 2 Corinthians chapter 11. Matter of fact, let's turn there for just a moment. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 11. I mentioned earlier that the devil can appear in a different form than what you would expect to see. In Second Corinthians chapter eleven, look with me if you will. In verse number 13, for such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ. And no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Therefore, it is of no great thing, it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness, whose end shall be according to their works. You know what the devil does? He comes to you in the form of an angel, in the form of some minister. You know what a minister does? He serves. That's what a minister does. And so, listen, the devil, you know what he'll say to you? Listen, if you if you'll just come over on this side, I'll give you all this good stuff. You want this? I'll give it to you. I'll serve it to you. I'll be a minister to you. I'll listen, those people don't care about you. We care about you over here. Let's just just come over over here and let me take care of you. He's lying. He's trying to draw you aside so that he can destroy you. He transforms himself into an angel of light, and he transforms his ministers into angels of light. The the the world, listen, the world wants to paint the Bible in the old time way and and and church life and Christianity as something that's harmful and and and hurtful and well they they have this uh they have this narrative that every war that's ever been started was be was started because of religion. Well first and foremost what I have isn't religion. Christianity isn't religion. Religion is man trying to get to God. Christianity is God coming to us. But they want to paint Christianity as just this bad tarnish upon society. You know, if you look down through history You know what you'll find Christianity and the gospel of Jesus Christ has been a blessing to every nation and every continent that it's landed on. The devil's a liar. But he's very cunning. He's very deceptive. He's very subtle. When he appeared to Adam and Eve in the form of that serpent. You know what he told them? Hey! You know, the devil's just uh the the the Lord, he's just trying to keep you from the good stuff You know, if you'll eat this fruit here, then you'll become as gods, knowing good and evil. You know what he did? He lied. He lied. And that day, because Adam took of that fruit and Eve took Partook of that fruit. Death entered in the world because sin entered the world. Listen, friends, the wages of sin is death He said, I just don't understand how a loving God could send someone to hell. Listen, it was man's choice. It's your choice tonight whether you go to hell or not. That's your choice. That's not God's. The devil will lie. He'll try to deceive. He'll be subtle. He'll use trickery 1 Peter 5, verse 7 tells us about our adversary, the devil, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. You know what that means? There's another way. He's seeking whom he may devour. That is, you don't have to be devoured by the devil. You don't have to be destroyed. Your life does not have to be wrecked and ruined, and you don't have to go to a devil's hell. When you look at this passage, look back in 2 Samuel chapter 3, and actually go back to chapter 2. We'll read the actual account. Of this battle in Gibeon. This is during the Israeli civil war, the northern kingdoms under Saul Against uh David and their fighting. And uh look at verse uh chapter two of 2 Samuel, look at verse number uh look at verse number Twenty Well, let's look at verse number nineteen. And Asahel pursued after Abner And in going he turned not to the right hand nor to the left from following Abner. Then Abner looked behind him and said, Art thou Asahel? And he said, and he answered, I am. And Abner said to him, Turn thee aside to the right hand of the left, lay thee hold on one of the young men, and take thee his armor. But Asahel would not turn aside from following of him. And Abner said to Asahel, listen to this, turn thee aside from following me, wherefore should I smite thee to the ground? How then should I hold up my face to Joab, thy brother? Verse 23, howbeit he refused to turn aside, wherefore Abdar with the hinder end of the spear smote him under the fifth rib, and the spear came out behind him, and he fell down there and died in the same place. So you say, what's the significance of this? Well, Abner knew. Listen, Abner knew even before he slew Asahel. That if he he slew Asahel, he would have to answer to Joab. He knew Joab. He knew the kind of man Joab was. Joab was a mighty man. He was listen, he was a guy you didn't want to cross And Abner says, now listen, Asael, turn aside from me. You know, I'm going to protect myself, but if you come after me, I'm going to have to take you out. And then I'm going to have to answer Joah. He had this in his mind. Even before it took place. So why? Why would he be drawn aside from Joab at this time And trust Joab that he's just going to talk to him. Listen, some of you in here tonight, this is not the first time you've heard the gospel. You've heard the gospel before, you've heard truth before, you know who the adversary is, you know he does not love you, you know he wants to destroy you, you know he wants to drive you to hell, and yet you're still listening to him. No wonder David said Amner died as a fool. He was foolish concerning the cunning of his enemy. Let me give you the second one. He was foolish concerning the consequences of his actions. Now if you look here and look at verse number thirty again Joab and Abishai 's brother slew Abner because he had slain their brother Asahel at Gibeon in the battle. So we understand we mentioned that blood is paid with paid for with blood. And there are exceptions in the law, but I want us to look at Numbers chapter 35. Let's look what the scripture has to say. concerning the situation before us. In Numbers chapter 35, we read about the law concerning those who have slain a man. Or any individual. In Numbers thirty-five, look with me in verse number nine. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye become over Jordan into the land of Canaan, then ye shall appoint you cities to be cities of refuge for you. that the slayer may flee thither, which killeth any person at unawares. And they shall be unto you cities for refuge from the Avenger That the manslayer die not until he stand before the congregation in judgment And of these cities which ye shall give, six cities shall ye have for refuge, three on one side of the Jordan, three on the other. Now look down with me in verse number Verse number 16: If he smite him with the instrument of iron so that he die, he is a murderer. The murderer shall surely be put to death. If he smite him with thr uh throwing a stone. Wherewith he may die and he die. He is a murderer, the murderer shall surely be put to death. If he smite him with a hand weapon of wood, wherewith he may die and he die. He is a murderer, the murderer shall surely be put to death. By the way Our nation would be a lot better shape if we had these laws still on the books. Amen. That's not a political statement. That's a biblical statement. And he goes down through here, look at verse number twenty. But if he thrust him of hatred, or hurl at him by laying of weight, that he die, or in enmity smite him with his hand, that he die, he that smote him shall surely be put to death. For he is a murderer, the revenger of blood shall slay the murderer when he meeteth him. You say, Who's this revenger of blood? That's whoever the family appoints He's the revenger of blood. But look at verse number 22. But if he thrust him suddenly without enmity , So, what does that mean? That means he's not, he doesn't have it in for him. Enmity is ill will. It is hatred. It's unfriendly dispositions. So we're listening what we're describing here, what it's describing here, it's describing Abner and Asahel. Abner didn't have it in for Asahel. As a matter of fact, he tried to get him to leave him alone. Is that right? He tried to preserve Asahel 's life. Asahel wouldn't listen, and so Amner did not slay him out of enmity or hatred or ill will. But look what it says here. It says, if he trusts him suddenly without enmity, uh, or have cast upon him anything without lying and uh laying of weight. Or with any stone wherewith a man may die, seeing him not, or cast it upon him that he die, and was not his enemy, neither sought his harm. Then the congregation shall judge between the slayer and revenger of blood according to these judgments, and the congregation shall deliver the slayer out of the hand of the revenger of blood. So he's saying, listen, if this happened where someone uh was killed by another individual, and that another that other individual they had the opportunity, whether they did it With intent, enmity, or unawares, they could run to this city of refuge. And then once they got in the city of refuge, the congregation would make a judgment. And judge whether this man was worthy of death or not. I think you and I would both agree from what we've read here tonight. That if Abner, if Abner's case had been taken before the congregation, they would have found him not guilty of the blood of Asael. Is that right? But the process had to be followed. If he didn't go to the city of refuge, he was fair game for the revenger of blood. So here's Abner, and maybe in Abner 's mind he's thinking through all of these things. I'm sure he had. Listen something that major in your life, you're going to be thinking through these things. And he's thinking through these things, and he understands I didn't have enmity. It wasn't that I just didn't like Asa. It's just it's battle and it's just It happened. I didn't want it to happen, but it happened. And maybe he's thinking in his mind, there's safety in that What I did, listen, maybe he's thinking what I did is not as bad as what other people have done. And so surely I'm gonna be okay, people are gonna understand, and I and and and I won't have to pay for this You know what? I've met people, you've met people probably talk to them knocking on doors, talk to them at the door, they they come to church, you talk to them at church, maybe at work with your coworkers, you talk to them about the Lord, and you talk about the fact that they're sinners. Because for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God? There's none righteous, no, not one. But it seems like you cannot convince them that their sin is bad enough to take them to hell. Well, you know, and they'll say, Well, you know, I you know, I I maybe I've I've done some things that I'm not proud of, but you know, I'm not as bad as some people. Isn't it amazing? When we compare ourselves to someone else, we always compare ourselves to someone worse off than us in our minds. You know, we're not a Hitler, so we're going to heaven. That's the mentality of human nature to compare ourselves to someone worse than us And because we're better than they are in our view of ourselves, which is tainted We reason that God is going to let us into heaven, that our sin is not as bad as the next guy, and we're going to get away with it, and it's going to be okay because God understands Listen, my friend, the problem is you are comparing yourself to the wrong person. When the Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, you understand that the glory of God is a person. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is the express image of his glory. God's glory. And he is the standard for righteousness. And you may be better than me, you may be better than the person sitting next to you. You might be better than anybody else in this county in your eyes, but I'll guarantee you tonight, you are not better than Jesus Christ. And it's his righteousness that you have to attain if you're going to escape punishment and death in hell Maybe Abner was foolish regarding the consequences of his actions. But I want you to think about this tonight. Maybe you think that Your sin is not as bad, but look look at Revelation chapter 21. Before we move on, look at Revelation chapter 21 Revelation twenty-one, this is the end, near the end of the revelation of God to man in the scriptures. And it's dealing with the end times, these are future events that we read about in the book of Revelation. Many of them. In Revelation chapter twenty-one, we see the new heaven and the new earth. The first heaven, the first earth are passed away. There's no more sea. There's the holy city, New Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. They shall be his people. Thank God for that. I'm looking forward to that. What John was seeing here, that city coming down out of heaven, I'm in that city. And it's not because of me. It's because of Christ. Verse number six, he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Obe Omega. You know what that is? He's A to C. He's the beginning and the end, he says, I will give unto him that is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. You know what happened to me? August 10th, 1995? I got a drink from the fountain of the water of life, and it did not cost me a dime. It was free to me. Because of the blood of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I received a free gift of salvation. The wages of sin is death. The payment for sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. And he says, Listen, you say, What's the requirement? You gotta be thirsty. Rich, poor, old, young, healthy, unhealthy, does not matter what state you're in. If you're thirsty, you can drink of the water of life. Freely. Freely. But then look at this. But verse number eight But the fearful and unbelieving and the abominable And murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters And all liars shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. Listen, my friend, these are the words of a holy God. These words are true and faithful. These words are sure and settled. And the Lord says, just as there is a place prepared for those who have trusted Christ, there is also a place prepared for those who have rejected Christ And instead they have chosen their sinful ways. And notice this list that he gives here. He lists the fearful and the unbelieving and liars and sorcerers with those who commit abominations, with murderers. With whoremongers, with idolaters? You know what he's saying? There's not, listen, there's not some sins that are acceptable And that God will overlook and allow you into heaven because they're not as bad as other sins. No. All sin is against God, and all sin is serious against God. He takes it very seriously. Well we would look at as not that bad, just having some fear. I'm just fearful. That's my problem, preacher. I'm fearful. You know what fear is a result of? It's a result of doubt. You know what doubt is the opposite of? Faith. Without faith, it's impossible to please God. The unbelieving, we look at unbelief as not that big of a deal. God sees it as a much bigger deal. He talks about liars. Ah, come on. Preacher, everybody has told a lie. That doesn't make it acceptable to God. We look at all these bad things over here. Well, murderers. Murderers. Well, yeah, they deserve hell. Well, so do the liars. And everyone who is still in their sins, when you stand before God, it won't matter that your sin wasn't as bad as the next guy's sin. You say, well what what's what what is it about this sin that can't be allowed into heaven? Listen, two things. If God allowed sin into heaven, heaven wouldn't be heaven. I don't know about you, but I don't want to spend eternity in a sin-cursed place. Seventy years is plenty. But here's the th second thing. Listen, that sin that you think is so unimportant or inconsequential, that sin put God's Son on the cross of Calvary. And that sin must be paid for. So preacher, how can I pay for that sin? You can't. You can't. So is it hopeless? Does it mean that we cannot go to heaven because we are sinners, all of us are sinners, and we can't pay for our sin? No. Listen, that's why Jesus Christ came. That's why he took that cross. That's why he listen, that's why he hung there in shame and pain and agony. Allowing the creation, his own creation, to put him on a cross. Say, why would he do that? Because he loves you. Greater love hath no man than this that a man lay down his life for his friends. Listen, you say, who killed Jesus? Jesus said, No man takes my life. I lay it down. He gave himself for you. He became sin so that you could be righteous. And the devil, listen, the devil wants to convince you that you're not that bad. You don't need a savior. You're fine. God's okay. God understands and all these other lies he wants you to believe because he hates you and he wants to drag you down to hell. But Jesus Christ, listen, I'm here to tell you the truth tonight. Jesus Christ took your sins. And died in your place so that you didn't have to go to hell. Here's the saddest thing about people going to hell. They're going to hell trying to pay a debt, number one, that they could never pay. And they're trying to pay that number two m side of all that's already been paid. You're you're paying for something that's already been paid. But if you don't receive that payment, then it's still your bill. Let me give you one more thing. Look at looking back in the text here, we mentioned In verse, or in uh uh Numbers chapter 35, about these cities of refuge. And the Lord designated six of these cities in Israel. And we know that what took place here in Second Samuel chapter three. David's headquarters for his kingdom was in Hebron at the time. It's before he moved to Jerusalem. Look with me, if you will, in Joshua chapter 21. Joshua 21. It's our last scripture we'll look at tonight. Joshua chapter 21 I'm talking about trying to pay for a debt that's already been paid. Talking about dying as a fool. In Joshua twenty one, look at verse number thirteen. Thus they gave to the children of Aaron the priest, Hebron, with her suburbs, to be what? A city of refuge for the slayer. There are six cities given as cities of refuge. One of them was Hebron. You know where Abner died? He didn't die in Hebron. He died at the gate of Hebron. See, Joab, Joab was he well, he was sneaky. He was subtle. He didn't go into Hebron and call Abner into Hebron. You know why? Because he couldn't kill him in there He gets Abner, as Abner is trying to go back into the city, here's Joab standing beside the gate saying, hey, Abner, come over here. Let me talk to you over here for just a minute before you go in the city. And Abner was struck That deadly mortal wound at the very gate of deliverance? He died on the doorstep of salvation? How many people listen? All these years the gospel's been preached. I think in this church alone, how many people have come into this place? Down through the years, and the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ preached from this pulpit and preached with the power of God. And people come in and they hear the gospel, and the Spirit of God deals with them, and they say, Not tonight. I'll wait till later and the devil's there saying, Hey, hey, just d don't go down there. I've got some more things I want to tell you. There's some other things you've got to do. Just put it off. And they left this place. And they died. And they went to a devil's hell. They were at the doorstep of salvation. And they died and went to hell He was right there. He was so close. I think about Felix who told Paul, almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. Almost listen, almost is still lost You know, I went to church. You know, I I I gave I tithed. You know, I sang in the choir. You know, I taught a Sunday school church. Listen, there's going to be men on that day who will stand and say, I preached your word. And he's going to say to them, Depart from me. Ye workers of iniquity, I never knew you. It is not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us. It's the mercy of God we need. Abner, listen, maybe he was trying to justify himself and say, you know, it wasn't that bad, and I didn't mean to, and all these other things. It wasn't justice. Abner needed, it was mercy that he needed. And mercy could be found in the Word of God and in that city of refuge. Amber died as a fool. He died as a fool because he was foolish regarding the closeness. Of deliverance. He was right there. I've seen it. I know your pastor's seen it. Other preachers, moms and dads, Sunday school teachers, they've seen it. They've seen the battle being waged in the pews, in the Sunday school rooms, in the homes. They see the battle, the battle for man's soul. Raging. Let me tell you what a blessed thing it is when you see the Spirit of God win that battle And that soul come to Christ and just pour out their their soul to the Lord and see a soul get born again, saved by the grace of God, delivered from the enemy Delivered from hellfire, delivered from that sin. That could be you tonight. That could be you tonight. Don't listen to Joab He said, hey, come on, come on over here. I'm gonna tell you something. Don't listen to what he has to say. He doesn't know what he's talking about. Who is he? The God of glory and the God of heaven loved you enough to give his only begotten Son for you. If you can't trust that kind of love, there's nothing and no one that you can trust. You certainly can't trust the devil. He's a liar. He's a murderer. He hates you and he wants to destroy you. But Jesus Christ came. Jesus Christ came and he became that city of refuge for us. You know they go in that city of refuge, the slayer of man, go in that city of refuge. He was safe In that city, as long as the high priest lived. You know what the scripture tells us about Jesus Christ, our great high priest, he ever liveth! To make intercession for us. Listen, he's always gonna be there. You never have to worry about losing that redemption, losing that safety. Because the high priest is there, the city of refuge is there. Jesus Christ, He is your way of escape. But you've got to go in at the door. He's the door. He's the way. He's the truth. He's the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by him. This church can't get you to heaven. I can't get you to heaven. This pastor can't get you to heaven. Nobody here can get you to heaven. Get your sins forgiven. But Jesus Christ, whose Spirit is here tonight, He can sure do all of the above. If you'll come to him, let's stand together, Heavenly Father. God we pray by