Isaiah chapter number nine, and when you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand please and honor the reading of God's Word. Isaiah chapter number nine. I want to read the first seven verses. These are very familiar verses, perhaps. It's a prophecy made some 600 plus years ago about the birth of the Lord Jesus. We read in Matthew's gospel the fulfillment of that prophecy. One of the ways I know the Bible is inspired is because so much prophecy has already been fulfilled. The Lord told us things that would happen, and they did. And we're talking about sometimes hundreds and even thousand plus years ago. The Lord would make a prophecy, and the Lord would say, this will occur, and it did. Now that's not accidental, and that's not just a mere coincidence. That's the reality that the Bible is a gift from God. That all scriptures given by inspiration of God. And this is one of those passages. So Isaiah chapter 9, verse 1, look what it says. Nevertheless, the dimness shall not be such as was in her vexation, when at the first he lightly afflicted the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, and afterward did more grievously afflict her by the way of the sea, beyond Jordan, in Galilee of the nations. The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. They that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined. Thou hast multiplied the nation and not increased the joy, the joy before thee according to the joy and harvest, and as men rejoice when they divide the spoil For thou hast broken the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, as in the day of Midian. For every battle of the warrior is with confused noise, and garments rolled in blood, but this shall be with burning and fuel of fire. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder. And his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end. Upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even forever. Now look at this statement. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. You say, how's all that going to be? Well, it's going to be because God's going to do it. And uh when I don't understand how God's going to do something, here's what I do. I trust in what I know the Lord can do. He can do the impossible. I'm going to pray here in just a moment. As I do, I'm going to ask Brother Jerry if he would be so kind as to shut these two front heaters off. They're running very strong for some reason. And uh if you'll just Turn those off. I would appreciate it. Let's bow our heads and pray and ask the Lord to speak to us. Heavenly Father, we come to you in Jesus' strong name. And we thank you, Lord, for the privilege that we have to pray. We thank you, Lord, for the privilege that we have to be in this place. Oh, how we ask, Lord, that you would speak to our hearts and work in us as you see fit. You know the need of every dear person gathered here And I pray, Lord, that you would meet those needs and that you would minister to us effectively. Lord, I realize that all I can do, and I can barely do that, Lord, is reach an ear. But Lord, you've got to touch the heart. And we're trusting you this morning to, in your grace and mercy, touch hearts. Help us to see the bright hope that is ours because Jesus was born Father, deliver us from the trappings of the time in which we live that would take our attention away from what really matters. And help us, we ask, Lord, just to remember that Christ was born for unto us. Oh, how we thank you that we are the objects of your affection. And we're the recipients of your kindness. Lord, how we praise your name that you would do such a thing for the likes of us. Now, Lord, we pray that you'll continue to work in our hearts. Lord, separate us from all the cares and distractions of life, and fix our eyes afresh on Thee And may we worship you, Lord, both in spirit and truth. And we'll thank you for what you do, for we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. I want to thank you for honoring God's word in that way. We're going to camp, the Lord being our helper, over the next several weeks here in Isaiah chapter 9. We're just going to stay in this passage and look at these seven verses in this prophecy concerning the Lord Jesus and his birth. There's a great deal of things in this this passage. He talks about some things that he's going to do. He talks about the people. We're going to look at them this morning and where they walked and where they sat. Then he talked about how that that shining light's going to bring them great joy. In fact, it's going to be a joy like they've never known before. And then he's going to talk about how that he's going to break the yoke of the burden. And you'll notice he said, I'm not going to do it the conventional way. Because every battle of the warrior is with confused noise and garments rolled in blood. But he said, I'm going to do it a different way. the wrath of God that was poured out on the person of Jesus Christ on the cross. The battle that was to be fought on Calvary was not going to be won on a battlefield like they were accustomed to. The burden that they were going to be delivered from was not going to be a burden or a yoke that would be broken because some other mighty army conquered. It was a spiritual burden that was going to be lifted and a spiritual yoke that was going to be broken because Jesus Christ won a battle on Calvary. But then I want you to see again in verse number six, and this is going to be the theme of our study. Notice it says, For unto us, unto us. All of this was for us. You say who who's the who's the us? That's you and me. If you're reading that this morning and you're looking at the Word of God unto us, that means you. That's who that's who the Lord came for. That's why Jesus was born. You know, it's of it oftentimes we say, well, I'm thankful that the Lord came the earth to die for man. And I'm thankful. But I'm even more thankful that Jesus Christ came to die for me. That's where it gets personal, and that's where it has to get personal. The gospel is not some nebulous theology that floats out yonder for some unknown individual. The gospel's for you and the gospel 's for me. Now look at this with me if you would concerning the prophecy. Again, this was some 600 years before Christ was ever born. Actually, more, near 700. Much closer to 700 years before Jesus was born. And yet God would tell Isaiah that I'm going to give you a child. There's going to be a son born. And then the angel, as he made the announcement to Mary, would reach back to those scriptures and reach back to that prophecy and say, this is that. What I said would come, who I said would come is coming. And you are going to get the privilege to bear the body of the Lord Jesus in yours. Now, I know a lot of times we're, I don't want to get too off track on this, but our culture brings so much confusion around our celebrations. And and it's so easy to get caught up in everything that's going on. But it is in my heart as long as the Lord will help me It is in my heart to make sure that we understand that this is all about the birth of Jesus Christ. And so again, look with me, if you will, at chapter number nine and verse number two, and I want you to see the condition of man. In Isaiah chapter 9 and verse number 2, the Bible says this: the people , I want you to highlight this phrase, the people that walked in darkness. And then if you'll skip on down, he says, they , same people that dwell in the land of the shadow of death. What is that? That's the condition of man. That's what mankind is like without God. That you say, what man? What people? It's every man and every people. All people. All people everywhere. You see, the Bible makes it very clear that man is not a being who's getting better. But he's utterly lost. Now, folks, our culture says this there's a spark of good in everybody. We've just got to find it and cultivate it. And I've got news for you. That's a lie. There's no good. In fact, the Bible says there's none good, no, not one. And so the truth of the matter is, is that the condition of man is that he is utterly, hopelessly, totally, completely lost without God. That's the condition of man. That's how this world was when Jesus came. Man was in darkness. Notice what it says. He walked. in darkness. Andy, Brother Andy used the illustration this morning about purposefully planting his feet. Right? And so if you wear bifocals, trifocals, I don't know if they do quadfocals or not, but um uh some of us are up to tries. I don't know if there's any help beyond that. But you you know that you you better make sure that what you see is really there, right? Because two steps can sometimes look like six if you're looking, depending on which one you're looking through. And so you deliberately walk. You know what the Bible says? Man was walking in darkness. You know why? He was doing it deliberately. Man's not only a sinner by nature, but he's a sinner by choice. Man chooses to sin. Jesus taught us over in John chapter number three that men love darkness rather than light. You know what that means? That means man chooses darkness over light. A lost man, you say, why do lost people do what lost people do? Because they're lost. They they they make choices that reflect the condition of their heart. They make choices that reflect it. They choose what they choose because they're dead in their trespasses and sin. Man cannot improve himself here in just what? A few days. We'll start a new year. And probably everybody to some degree makes a resolution or two. And there might be many, many resolutions to be better people. Someone might say, I'm tired of the life I'm living, I'm tired of being low down and no good and all of this, and they say, I'm going to change my life. I'm going to quit drinking. I'm going to quit doing this, that, and the other. And they make the long list. And you know what they find out? That man cannot change himself. We don't need reformation. We need regeneration. We don't need to turn over a new leaf. We need to be made new creatures in Jesus Christ. Man's awful condition, Jesus said, the Bible tells us that he was walking in darkness. And by the way, this started right there in the Garden of Eden. In the Garden of Eden, man made a choice. What did he choose? He chose to disobey God. And because he chose, Romans chapter 5 says, that that he chose sin and because of sin death passed upon all men for that all had sinned. Someone told me one time, they said, I wish I'd have been there. I wouldn't have done that. I said, well, that's that's an awful high opinion of yourself. But the truth of the matter is, federally we were there. He's he's our Adam was the head of man, and Adam in Adam we all fell, and so that choice was made. And and listen, under understand this that that men walk in darkness because they choose to. The nature of their depravity, the nature of their lost estate causes is revealed in the choices that they make. So we see the condition of man. He's lost. He's walking in darkness. But look at this. He goes on to say even more: they that dwell. In the land of the shadow of death. In other words, they're living on the doorstep of hell itself. They're dwelling in the, look at it, they're dwelling in that land of the shadow of death. You think about where man lives because of who man is. He lives one breath from hell Now friend, if you don't know the Lord, your one heartbeat from eternity. You say, well, I'll get it right one day, someday, somehow. Know this, my friend, you are gambling with something very precious. You're playing a game with something that you've got no guarantee of holding on to. Not one of us can make our heart beat a moment longer than God intended. Nor can we sustain our life one second beyond what God's declared. It is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment. And he's saying that these people, this condition of man, he's dwelling in that land of the shadow of death. And I'm telling you, the Bible paints a bleak picture of a man without the Lord. We need to remember this morning that life without Christ is meaningless. Life without Christ is hopeless. Life without Christ is purposeless. Life without Christ does have nothing but darkness awaiting it. Understand this more and people people are not just uh you know unfortunate, they're lost. And a person without the Lord Jesus is going to perish forever, and oh, that the Lord would help us to see Far too many times we classify men by what we see, and none of that matters. We look at a person and say they're rich. Guess what? A rich man's Body decays like a poor man's body and is put in a grave. We look at an individual and say they're successful. Well, they're going to leave all of that one day when they die We look at an individual and we say, well, they're respectable. They're an individual to whom you can look up to. And no, all of that's going to pass with time. But when God looks at man, here's what he sees. He sees man in darkness or he sees man in light. He sees man either lost or he sees man saved. He doesn't see them with all of these silly classifications that we often attach upon people. He sees them as souls that are precious in his sight. And here in Isaiah chapter 9, he says, the condition of man, he's lost, he chooses to walk in darkness, he lives in the land of the shadow of death. Listen, if you're lost, you're condemned already. Someone said to me one time, don't condemn me. I said, I'm not. The Bible says if you've rejected Christ, you're condemned already. But I'm glad there's a place where a person can get to where they're no longer condemned by the one that matters. What matters? Why does it matter if somebody condemns you? Does a man or another individual have any power over your soul? I mean, someone can do. So what if they censure you? You know They say, you don't meet my approval. Who cares? Who cares? You will not stand before a tribunal of men. You'll face God. And you'll stand before a holy God, and his condemnation and his deliverance is both death and life, and he's the one who doles it out. So remember this, the condition of man. May God help us to see men who for who they are and for what they are. They're lost But then notice the coming of light. And I love how in the prophecy both mingles judgment with hope. He talks about again in verse number two, the people that walked in darkness. Look at this, have seen a great light. And then they that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined. You see the light. By the way, darkness is a picture of sin, and light is a picture of truth. And here in the Bible it says that the condition of man, though he's in darkness, he he's living in the land of the shadow of death, there's light that enters. There's there's a if I can say it like this, there's a confrontation. Let me ask you something. How many of you when you get up in the morning, you you don't even have your eyes open yet? How many of you like for the light switch to be flipped on? Right? How many of you just sort of like to gradually move from darkness to light? Right? And and and you you you don't like I mean you don't open I mean not everybody, some people like it, but You know, not not everybody likes it. I like to have light. When I'm awake, I want windows open, lights on. I don't like darkness. I don't like darkness. I want to open the windows and see what's out there and see if the light sun 's up and see everything alive, you know. Well, I quickly learned when I got married that my wife wasn't like that. She didn't appreciate the throwing open of the windows and the turning on of the light and let's start the day. No She's one of them that gradually has to transfer from darkness into light. But I want you to know something. When the light of Christ comes, when truth comes, it doesn't come gradually in a sense. There's a confrontation. These individuals, look at it, they're walking in darkness, they've seen a great light. There's no transition here. It's as if God says, I want you to know, here's the truth. Let me say something about this. As as Christians, we need to stop trying to sneak up on sinners. I've been reading a lot about soul winning and soul winning and soul winning, and most of it is just salesmanship technique. The majority of it is just jargon that is used to corner somebody to say something perhaps they don't even mean. And I'm saying to you that there's no room for sneaking up on sinners. Jesus didn't. When Jesus Christ was born, he declared himself, my friend, to be the very Son of God. And when he stood before the Jews, he made it very clear. You read the Gospel of John, he made it clear from day one that I am he that was with the Father, and if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. And I'm the Word, and the Word was made flesh and dwelt among men. He said, I am God, and he confronted man with the truth. Men need to be confronted with the truth. We need to be arrested by the reality that yes, I'm dead in my sin, and yes, I am lost without God, but yet there's a light of truth. And by the way In that same passage in John chapter 3, Jesus reminded us that men will not come to the light because their deeds are evil. That men would rather live in darkness than to come to that light of deliverance. That's the sad state of man. But here the light shines and the gospel goes forth. Listen, if you're waiting to sneak the gospel up on somebody, just stop and give them the gospel. Just stop trying to beat around the bush and and I I know there's a there's a way in which we share the gospel That we can be gracious. We don't have to take the gospel and gore people with it. But the truth is we need to be confronted with the reality that without God I'm lost. Without Christ I'm hopeless. Without the the shedding of the blood, there's no remission of sin. We've got to be confrontational, if you will, with the gospel of Jesus Christ, because the light shines in darkness. Now look, when that light shines in, man's got to do something. See, the gospel don't leave you neutral. The gospel doesn't leave you neutral. It doesn't leave you just to say, yawn and pass it off and move home. Absolutely not. The gospel puts you in a position of where you must do something, either stay in the dark or run to the light. And I want you to notice not only the confrontation, but I like this next part. He talks about those that dwell in the land of the shadow of death. He says, upon them hath the light shined. And I believe that's speaking of conversions here. Acts chapter number nine comes to mind when Paul was saved. What did he do? He saw a great light. And he was blinded by that light. Now look, that supernatural experience is not what saved him. His response to the person and work of Jesus Christ is. It wasn't the light that is what converted him, but the picture is drawn here for us, and the illustration is clear that that light shined on them. And that light was speaking of the fact that they have now moved. The Bible says we're translated out of that kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of light, into the kingdom of his dear son. When you get saved, you're brought out of darkness, and you're brought and by the way, you're no longer a child of darkness. You're a child of the light. You're no longer walking in the darkness of this world. And that's why we're so different. We don't have to, can I just say this? We don't have to try to be different. We are different. You don't have to enhance your difference. You just simply have to obey the Lord. You're different. You're not uh any longer a child of darkness. You are now a child of the light. And he says, walk as children of the light. Don't live in darkness anymore. Well, why do we involve ourselves in things that are trademarks of this dark world? Because this it in our home. We're children of the light And so I want you to see the conversion that occurs here and that light shining. Listen, the Bible says that the God of this world hath blinded their minds. He blinds the minds, he blinds the eyes, he blinds the hearts. So what? To keep the light of the glorious gospel from shining in. And when the gospel shines in, it brings that individual to a place where they have to do something with the Lord. We have to witness, and when we witness, by the way, can I say this? Conversions are not your concern Nor are they mine. Oh, I want to see people say, Don't misunderstand me, but I can't save them. Nor can you There is a supernatural element at work when you and I share the gospel. It is the power of God. The gospel is the power of God and the salvation. to everyone that believeth. The Spirit of God must draw man and open his blind eyes. But isn't it a wonderful thing to see the Lord do that? Here is the conversion. That light shines. Here they are. Look at them. They're living on the very brink of hell, and the light shines. And they're rescued out of the jaws of Satan. You ever thought about your salvation like that? Your salvation was a rescue. Your salvation was a rescue effort. God pulled you out of the brink of the flames. You were pulled out of the very edge of an eternity without God. You say, but I got saved young, doesn't matter. You were lost as lost could be. And you say, but but listen, my life wasn't scarred with a lot of sin. It didn't have to be. Your nature was scarred by sin And you needed the same blood to wash your sin away as the vilest offender. But listen, I am glad that the light shines God reached down into that darkness right on the edge of eternity and snatched you out of the devil's hands and saved you by his marvelous grace. And by the way, this is what the coming of light made possible. And you say, what are you talking about? I'm talking about the coming of Jesus Christ. If you look with me thirdly at this truth, the cause of everything, the cause of it all is found in verse number six. For unto us a child is born, and unto us a son is given. There's an old program that plays this time of year. Um it's called It's a Wonderful Life. And years ago that man George Bailey got in the fix and said, I wished I'd never been born. And he got the opportunity to see what life would be like had he not come, had he not been born And so you you some of you know what I'm talking about. You've watched, you've seen that, and and you see all of the effects, and most of them are negative, all of the effects of his life not being lived and him not being born. Can you imagine what it would be like this morning had Christ not come? What if Jesus had never been born? What if Christ, what if this verse had never been fulfilled? Do you realize this morning every one of us would be headed for hell or already in it? If Christ was not born? If Christ had not come, what kind of tragedies would you have created by your wicked and sinful choices? What kind of devastation would follow in the wake of the life you lived without the Lord Jesus? Isn't it a horrible thing to think if Christ had not been born? The Corinthian believers, there were some there, there were some uh that were not believers, and they were saying that the resurrection didn't happen. And so Paul said, let me tell you what it would be like if Jesus didn't get up from the grave. He said, you'd be yet in your sin. And we would have no hope. And we of all men would be most miserable. Why? Because Jesus isn't alive But let me say this this morning very emphatically, Jesus Christ is alive. And Jesus Christ did come. For unto us a child is given, unto us this son was born. Listen, I am glad Jesus Christ came. And think about the power of the reality that Christ came. What does it demonstrate? It demonstrates the care of God. You notice that phrase twice repeated: unto us. Unto us. This is for you. This is for you. It's unto us. You think about this care. God is the our God is the only God who made the sacrifice of himself so that we could be saved. All other religions, all other false gods, require you to make the sacrifice. I was reading a uh archaeology review and they were talking about an ancient site that was discovered, I believe it was the mine people. Who had an altar and when they dug up this altar, they found hundreds and thousands of human remains. And from what they can piece together that these people would offer uh human sacrifice if they were in drought, they would offer up so many people and those people would die and be placed on this altar so this angry God would be appeased and the rain would come. If sickness swept through, they'd offer up so many healthy individuals and and and people that were well and and they would take them and they would make a sacrifice of them. And I thought, what a tragedy to be living in such darkness. To think that somehow or another the death of a man is going to make any difference on this earth. I mean, if a man dies , can he atone for his own sin, let alone the sins of others? Can he appease God in any way? And they said this went on perhaps for several, several decades, especially intensively because of the amount of bodies that were discovered. or remains and they said it must have been an incredibly fearful time in which to live among those people God didn't say, give me a hundred people, and I'll save you. For God so loved the world That he gave his only begotten Son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. He gave of himself. He gave himself. Can you imagine God sacrificing God? But that's exactly what happened. Not only do I see the care of God, but I want you to see the Christ. He is both child and son. Now, why did he say it like that? Unto us a child is born, and unto us a son is given. Why would he make a distinction between the two? A child, a son? Because he's demonstrating the dual nature of Jesus. Jesus was the child of man, Mary's son. He had a body like you've got a body. He grew weary like you grow weary. He was hungry. It's recorded in the very Bible that Jesus afterward and hungered. He hungered. He got hungry. Jesus was thirsty. He cried from the very cross, I thirst. Jesus knew what it was to sorrow. He looked out over Jerusalem and he wept. He said, Jerusalem, Jerusalem. He wept over the lost condition of his own people. Jesus knew what it was to suffer pain and agony. He sweat in the Garden of Eden, and his sweat became like it was great drops of blood. We know that physically, when stressed to a high level, that the bodies, those vessels so near the surface can rupture, mingle with sweat Jesus Christ demonstrated that time of great agony there in the Garden of Gethsemane. Jesus was a man like you and I. In fact, uh Paul wrote in the Hebrew, Letter he said he was tempted in all points like as we are, yet without sin. In fact, Jesus and and he Further wrote, he said that we have not an high priest who cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. He he he knows what it is to be a man. Because he was a man. He was one hundred percent man. Don't tell me that he was just a modified angel. My Bible says he was a man. But he was not only 100% man, he was 100% God. He was still all God. John wrote about his birth, and the only thing John says, the word became flesh, and and and that that flesh dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. The glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Here's God. Here's man. Wrapped up in one bundle. The only one who's ever lived, the God man, is Jesus Christ, the very Son of God. Isn't that a wonder? Oh my, we see the dual nature of the Lord Jesus Christ And as that God man, Paul wrote in Hebrews 10, this man, after he'd offered one sacrifice for sin. This man, this 100% man, this one hundred percent God, this God man would take and offer up his blood on the on the altar of heaven and give it to the Father as a as the final payment for the sins of the whole world He made one sacrifice for sin. And that sacrifice was so satisfying to the Father that now every person who comes to God through the Lord Jesus Christ. is born again, forgiven, saved, redeemed, reconciled to God, made a brand new creature. All because of that sacrifice. Now don't tell me we shouldn't celebrate his birth. People get a little too spiritual for their own good. Well, we should not celebrate the birth of Jesus. Well, you tell me why not? Jesus came and was born. Oh, I don't celebrate all the other silly things around it, but I do celebrate the fact he came. Jesus was born unto us, unto us. A child is born unto us. A son is given. This God man made the sacrifice, the final sacrifice. This people sitting in darkness suddenly saw a light. By the way, that's played out in the birth of Christ again and again. What happened to the angels that were out tending to their sheep when he was born? Man, the heavens lit up. Heavens lit up. I remember the first time I saw the northern lights and the heavens lit up Now we got a little tail end of it this year, didn't we? We got to see just the glimmer. That's a glimmer. That's a glimmer. You get closer The whole I mean it's like the whole heavens alive. No wonder the native people that didn't know God thought their ancestors were running through the skies. I mean they didn't know what was going on It was so fascinating to them. But can you imagine those shepherds out there? And listen, it wasn't the northern lights, it was the light of the world. That filled the heavens that night. And the angels began to sing glory to God in the highest. And they were rejoicing why Jesus was born. Jesus was born. As we spend a little time in this passage, Isaiah said, He's coming. Isaiah said, be looking, he's going to come. This child will be born. This son will be given. We stand here this morning and declare He's come. He's already come. We look back some 2,000 years and read an inspired record that Jesus Christ was born of the Virgin Mary. That Jesus Christ suffered and bled on an old cross so that he could save us from our sin. That Jesus Christ was buried and rose again the third day He's come. He's come. Listen, we can put an exclamation point right where Isaiah put a period and say, the Lord has come. For unto us, and he's come for us. Now, if you're sitting here and listening to this service and you've never been saved , He came for you. Unto you. I'm not hurting the scripture at all if I were to just simply say unto you. A son is given. Unto you a child is born. For you. It's for you. You say, who am I? Well, you're a soul for whom Jesus died. It don't matter your status, your standing, your financial state, all of that is irrelevant. The reality is you're a living soul, and you're a soul that Jesus bled and died for. And wants to save. He came for you. Maybe you as a Christian have forgotten Just how thrilling it is to be under his care. That he does care for you. We often foolishly look at our circumstances and say, if they're positive, God cares. If they're negative, God don't. But there are some things that have happened historically that settle that debate once and for all. The fact he came to this earth says, I care for you. Do you know he didn't die for the animals? You say, What have the animals got to do with it? Do you realize they suffer because of sin? Somebody says, nature's so cruel, I say, no, sin is awful. It's not nature, it's sin. It's sin. I was watching a video of these storks, and if uh uh one of their babies is is um small And looks like it's not healthy or going to do well, often to save the other two, that mother stork will take that baby and throw it out of the nest. And toss. You say, how cruel. Some of you little ones ought to be glad God didn't toss you, you know, you didn't get tossed. Little little deficient ones. The Lord loved us, didn't He? But they'll toss you and say, that's awful. And there's a whole lot of other things that happen in nature that you look and you say, man, that's awful. You know what that is? That's sin's fingerprint. So how do you know that? Paul said to the Romans, the whole creation groaneth and travaileth together until now. You you think about the devastation of droughts and the devastation of storms and and and the impact it has as far as the earth is concerned. And those that live on it. And you say, what is that? That's not the convulsions of Mother Nature. And listen, it's not the creation of man and his madness. Amen. Climate change and all of that garbage. It's not the doings of man. It's the result of sin. When sin entered into the world, the whole creation fell. Everything's affected. Everything's affected. But can you imagine what it's going to be like when God reverses the curse? He's going to. He's going to. The Bible says the predator-prey relationship's going to be gone from animals. Don't be gone. My wife has a little fish pond and I was watching the other day and I saw something out of the corner of my eye and there was a hawk sitting on the edge of it trying to catch her little goldfish. I thought, what them little goldfish do to you? He se he I mean he was looking for dinner. And they had enough sense to go to the bottom. They knew hawks can't swim, so I guess they They were hiding out, and I thought, man, what it you know what that is? That's sin. That's what sin did to this earth. No blood was shed till sin entered in. There's no curse. This world this world knew nothing of the curse. Can you imagine what the Garden of Eden must have been like to live in? You imagine a perfect temperature? Now, I don't know what it is. And in the in the church house, we don't know what it is. We look for it, but we hadn't found it yet. We're still looking for that perfect temperature. Or that perfect climate, you know. Perfect climate. Some like it cold and snowy, some like it hot and sunny, some like it somewhere in between. But but whatever Eden was, Eden was the perfect environment. There was no curse, there was no effects of sin. But the Lord Jesus, my friend, what did he do? He came and he took the curse of sin on himself. And he became the brunt, if you will, of the of the wrath of God for you and me. But he didn't die for that world, he didn't die for the the plants and the animals, he didn't die for the angels. Who transgressed and failed. But he did die for you and me. Listen, my friend, unto us, unto us a son is given. Unto us this child is born. Know this morning, my dear friend. That God demonstrated his care in undeniable terms. And when he took your sin on himself and laid down his life Oh, he declared without a doubt, I love you. When he took your sin and he shed his blood and he bowed his head and he gave up the ghost and said, It is finished. When I doubt the love of God, like the devil wants me to do, I need to take a look back and get Calvary back in view. I need to see what Christ did on the mighty cross and know that He loved me with an everlasting love. Oh, listen, Christ came. This is the reason. This is why those that were sitting in darkness now have been brought into the marvelous light. If you're not saved today, I've got good news for you. You can be. Because Christ died for your sin. And if you're saved today, you need to remember you're bought with a price. We cannot say, I am my own. I'll do as I please. I don't belong to me anymore. I got purchased by the precious blood of Jesus. Dear friend, you and I have a privilege And as you think about the opportunities over the next few weeks, I don't know what this time of year does to people, but some people aren't near as mean as they generally are. You know, that whatever it is, there's a softness often. There's opportunities, certainly. And there is a chance for you and I to tell somebody about the Lord Jesus. Don't pass it up Don't pass it up. Don't get caught up in all the hoopala of of what tradition and culture has involved that we forget. Jesus Christ came to save sinners. And there's somebody out there that you can tell about the Lord. While we're celebrating those who know the Lord, there are others that are suffering. And they're struggling. I'm going to say more about that in the days ahead. But know this unto us. Unto us. This child was born, and unto us a son was given. Hey, it's for us Have you utilized what's been done for you? Have you taken hold, we learned about faith in Sunday school, have you taken hold by faith of the Lord Jesus? It's not what I feel, it's what the Bible says and what God's done, and we grab hold of that by faith and we trust the Lord. Have you believed on the Lord Jesus for the saving of your soul? Oh, I pray you will. And if you have, don't keep it to yourself. Let's tell others. Would you stand with me, please?