Would you take your Bible this evening and go with me to the book of Matthew? And it's chapter number six. That I'm going to be reading this evening, reading from Matthew chapter number six, beginning in verse number five. Now, as you find your place, you will know this is the model prayer. Some mistakenly call it the Lord's Prayer. This is not the Lord's Prayer, it is the model prayer For the Lord is teaching us how to pray here, and we've been talking about prayer and its importance, not only a praying Christian, but a praying church. And uh studying this came across what I'm going to call a startling statement. Have you ever read your Bible and read something and you said, Wow, is that true? And if that's true, Lord help me here. And this is one of those statements, and I want you to see it this evening. Matthew chapter number six, the Bible says Let's begin reading down in verse number nine. After this manner, therefore pray ye Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Now look at these next two verses. For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if ye forgive not men their trespasses , Neither will your father forgive your trespasses. I probably read that a hundred times or more, maybe more. But that really got my attention. And that's a startling statement. I'm not going to try to explain it away. I'm not going to try to dilute. I'm just going to try to tell you what the Bible says here. Father, would you help us just now? I pray as we study your word. May the Spirit of God have his way and work in our hearts. Lord, we stand in need of thy help and we're trusting you for it. We thank you, Lord, that you're faithful and unfailing. And we bless your holy name. We pray, dear Lord, that you would minister to the deep need of every heart and be glorified in this gathering, and we'll thank you for what you do, for we pray in Jesus' name, and God's people said. It struck me as I read the model prayer that the only thing the Lord expounded on in all of the things that he mentioned. Was this thing of forgiveness? I mean, he taught us in uh in the uh first part of the prayer that we're to worship our Father which art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name. There's to be a reverence for his name and but yet when we read on he doesn't expound on that. He taught us as we read this model prayer that we're to pray, Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. And he didn't expound on that. He taught us to give to pray, give us this day our daily bread. And that's a critical thing. James said that we have not because we ask not. But our Lord didn't expound on that particular matter. He taught us to pray, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Again, he did not expound upon that He taught us to pray, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. And there's so much that could be said about that, but he did not expound on that. But the one thing that he did is when he taught us to pray, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, he chose to expound on that. Now, why do you think that is? I'll tell you why. Because forgiveness is a big deal. It's an absolutely critical matter in your spiritual walk with the Lord. Now let me say this. Keep in mind the context of this passage. We're talking about disciples learning to pray. He's teaching the disciples how to pray. And then furthermore, he teaches us in verse 14 that we're to address him as your heavenly Father. And let me remind you that the only people who can call him their heavenly father are people who have been born again by the grace of God. We do believe in the fatherhood of God, but not over the entirety of man, because he's father to those whom have been born into his family. And so we're talking about saved people. You say, why do you bring that up? Because this is not conditional upon salvation. He's not teaching us here that to be saved you've got to forgive. Remember this: forgiveness and salvation is found in Jesus Christ alone. It's found in what he did on the cross. In Hebrews 9. 22, the Bible says, without the shedding of blood, there's no remission for sin. The basis of your forgiveness in mine is by the grace of God through the Lord Jesus Christ. I love this verse in Colossians 1:14. It says, In whom? Speaking of Jesus. in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. So let me be clear on this that we're not talking about a conditional requirement for salvation. For by grace are you saved, through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. It is not of works, lest any man should boast. There's no other way for you to be saved but by grace. If it comes any other way, it's not grace. Their salvation is through the grace and mercy of God. But a refusal to forgive will hinder your fellowship with the Father. There are three things I believe are in this text, and I want to highlight them this evening. Number one, I want you to see that there is a revelation in the text. The revelation is this that the forgiven forgive. That may not sound like much of a revelation, but it's so critical that when we pray, the Bible says we're to pray, forgive us our debts, as we Forgive our debtors. You notice that's joined? As we. If I could say it like this, in proportion to Or in accordance with, or in keeping of. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. It's a revelation. Would you look at this passage over in Matthew 18 with me? Matthew chapter 18, Jesus teaches the parable here in verse number 23. And in this parable, he teaches us the importance of the forgiven forgiving. He says in verse number 23 of Matthew 18, therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king, which would take account of his servants. And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him which owed him ten thousand talents. You say, well, how much is that? Well, in today's economy that'd be about thirty million dollars. Can you imagine a debt like that? I I hate debt. And have strove my entire life to stay away from it I've never led a church to go into debt because I believe it puts a church in a bad place and violates a Bible principle. To owe no man anything. But debt, can you imagine 30 million? You talk about a weight. $30 million? This man, I don't know how he got in such a way that he owed this man $30 million, but he was in a bad way because he owed a lot of money. So here's what he did, but for as much as he had not to pay, his Lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife and children and all that he had, and payment to be made. And by the way, all of that would not compensate for what he owed. It was still not enough. The servant therefore fell down and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Then the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion and loosed him and forgave him the debt. Can you imagine? I mean he got he got on his knees, said, please have patience with me, I'll pay you. And and of course he's really not able. I mean he if if he was able, he'd already paid it. But he's begging for mercy. He's saying, have patience on me. Don't sell my family and don't sell me and don't sell all my possessions. And please, please, be patient with me and show me mercy. And the man was moved. He obviously had a heart and he was moved with compassion and he loosed him. That's a good Bible definition for forgiveness. He loosed him. of responsibility. So I'm cutting the cord. I don't hold it against you anymore. You're loose from all of that load. So he loosed him. Well, read on. Verse 28. But the same servant went out. Same fellow had been forgiven $30 million of debt. And found one of his fellow servants which owed him a hundred pence. Now, a hundred pence in our terms today would be about twenty bucks. Do you see the contrast? $300 million, or excuse me, $30 million and $20. And watch what he did. He laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. Look at verse 29. And his servant fell down at his feet and besought him, saying, Have patience with me and I will pay thee off. Does that sound familiar? Those are the very words he spoke. Have patience on me and I'll pay thee off. Verse 30. You need to see these four words. They're big words in the Bible. And he would not. Not he could not, but he would not. Let me just say this: forgiveness is a choice. At the end of the day, whatever it is, it is a choice. He would not. But went and cast him into prison till he should pay the debt. So when his fellow servants saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told unto their Lord all that was done. Then his Lord, after he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant! I forgave thee all that debt because thou desirest me. Shouldest not thou also have had compassion on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on thee? And his Lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him. So likewise shall my heavenly father do also unto you. If ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trespasses. Boy, there's awful consequences in not forgiving And I don't believe we're reading about a man losing his salvation. That would contradict the clear teachings of the Bible. But we're talking about a Christian suffering the effects of unforgiveness. And it's like torment. I want you to go back and again see what Jesus said here. Now Jesus said these words in Matthew chapter number six. And Jesus said, if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. In very practical terms, the Lord Jesus taught us of the importance of forgiving, and he basically taught us that the forgiving have grounds to forgive. Those that have been forgiven have a reason to go and forgive. You think about the forgiveness of God in your life personally. Number two, I want you to see a second thought, and that is the requirement. Now, again, I want to stress that this is not a requirement for salvation. If it were a requirement for salvation, I don't think anybody would be saved. It would put salvation in the realm of works rather than being strictly by grace. And there's nothing you can do or I can do to add to or take away from our salvation. Salvation's a good work of God's amazing grace in an old dead sinner who comes along and makes him live. Well, but this is a requirement. Jesus made it very clear that he required it for what? For fellowship If a disciple wants to go on with God, now this is a big deal. If a disciple wants to go on with God , There's an old hymn they wrote back in 1958, I believe it was, 57. They had revival in Northern Ireland and A lot of Presbyterians came out of the dead Presbyterian churches and formed the Free Presbyterian church. And God gave one of their preachers a song. It was called Go Through with God. Go through with God. And there is a going through with God that he calls his people, come along, go with me, go through with the Lord. Whatever it is you face, go through with God. And I'm saying that you can't go through with God or can't go on with God unless, my friend, you learn to forgive. Forgiveness, forgiveness, or the sin of unforgiveness will break fellowship with the Lord. You can't have unforgiveness and go on with God. Can't do it. It's clear as day in the Word of God that your prayers are hindered. that they are not answered, that your sins are not forgiven, that you can't continue it. By the way, what do I have to have to have fellowship with the Lord? I have to have daily cleansing from the Lord. 1 John 1 9, if we confess our sin, he's what? Faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Boy, I gotta have that every day, don't you? That's my spiritual bath. We need a spiritual bath. A friend of mine's been in hospital and he his heart's out of rhythm. He's a young man really for that sort of problem. And I think he was twelve days and they wouldn't let him get a shower. And he said after he was able to get his shower, he said, man, I never realized that a shower felt so good. You know, because we get we take that for granted. And what I'm saying is, dear brother, sister, don't take for granted the privilege of having your sin forgiven and your heart made right with God and staying in fellowship with the Lord. And incumbent upon that is that you forgive as you have been forgiven. You cannot go on with God and harbor unforgiveness. Unforgiveness casts a shade or a chill over your whole spiritual state. Over on the campground where we live. You know, in the spring of the year it's so promising. Light gets through there and things start to come up. My wife has a rose planted out there. There's no use for it to be there. It's never going to do anything where it is. But nevertheless, it made a bud this year, and we're all excited. Man, that thing's going to bloom. Well, one week now. The uh sorry to say the clouds, but the leaves have come out so thick that it's shady in there and that blooms already shriveled up and fell off. There's no way it's going to look it don't get enough light And I'm saying that your spiritual life requires the light of the Lord's presence, and unforgiveness casts a shade that will wither every fruit that tries to form In your life. We must forgive. Jesus said, if you do not forgive, your sin will not be forgiven. Isn't that a startling thing? I think sometimes we read our Bibles too quick and we don't stop and ponder what it says, but this is a soul-shaking truth that The Lord requires of me. He's not just suggesting of me. He's requiring of me. And he's putting something in so important on the line. He's saying that if you don't forgive, then I won't forgive you. I've heard a lot of spiritual gymnastics trying to water that down, but I can't see a way around it. And when I can't see a way around it, the only thing I know to do is take the Bible at face value and believe what it says and go on. And I believe our Lord meant what he said when he taught us this. So we see it's a revelation, and then we also see it's a requirement. But I believe thirdly it's a reinforcement. A reinforcement. You say, what do you mean a reinforcement? It's a reinforcement of the seriousness of forgiveness. Now the best I can tell, I've studied this book, the best I can tell that this is the only grounds whereby God refuses to forgive. It's the only place. It's the only place. It's the only terms that he lays down for you and I to be forgiven. And it's the only place he said that I will not forgive. If you refuse to forgive, I will not forgive. You know this answers a lot of questions, don't it? It explains a lot of miscarried Christians. It explains a lot of those that turn and walk away from the Lord and do not follow him. Look at this is a principle that's established well in the Word of God. Flip over to Mark with me real quick. Mark chapter 11. And just see it again. Mark chapter eleven and verse number twenty four. He says, Therefore, I say unto you , What things soever ye desire when you pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them. And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have aught against any. That your father also, which is in heaven, may forgive you your trespasses. But if you do not forgive, neither will your father, which is in heaven, forgive Forgive your trespasses. Do you know what? The reason a lot of prayers are not answered is because of an unwillingness to forgive. And you know what you do when you pray with unforgiveness in your heart? You just speak so many words up into the air that fall right back down on your head. It's what Jesus said. It's what the Bible says. This alarms me as much as it does you, and it shakes my little world up. As much as it shakes your little world up, but it's what our Lord said, and the authority in my life is not my opinion or my interpretation. My authority is the word of the living God, what he says And he says, when you stand, when you pray, and you stand praying, forgive. That's a command. Forgive. Boy, he's reinforcing here. Go back into the Old Testament quickly. Look at Psalm 18. Psalm 18 and Verse 25. It's not a contradiction of what the Bible says. It it really all comes together when you compare Scripture with Scripture. Psalm 1825 says, with the merciful thou wilt show thyself merciful. Let me remind you something. God will deal with you on the terms you deal. That's what he said. You know why I try to be merciful? Because I need a lot of mercy. He says, with the merciful, he said, I'm going to be merciful. Look what he says later on, verse 25, here in the verse, with the upright man thou wilt show thyself upright. Verse 26, with the pure thou wilt show thyself pure, and with the froward, thou wilt show thyself froward. See, we really do reap what we sow in not only in our lives with men, but in our relationship with the Lord. I believe he again is reminding us that this forgiveness is critical. Now, look at one more place real quick. Would you turn to Hebrews chapter 12? And those are the things that we're going to do. Hebrews chapter twelve and look at verse number fourteen. Follow peace with all men, and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord. Look at verse 15. Looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God. Lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled. Preacher, where does bitterness come from? Unforgiveness. What makes bitterness take root and then begin to spread and come up? Unforgiveness. Unforgiveness is the mother of bitterness. And he says that we're to be careful and to look diligently lest we fail. Now, by the way, the grace of God don't fail us, but we can fail the grace of God. In other words, we can fail to utilize what God's made available to us by not listening to and taking what God has given us and putting it into practice, and we can fail the grace of God. And what happens? The root of bitterness springs up. I was thinking of this verse. Husbands, love your wives and be not bitter against them. Now don't check out on me, please. We were doing good till we got here. Don't be bitter against them. You say, well, why did he say something like that? Why didn't he tell her? By the way, you don't tell her to It's interesting to me, he's told the husband to love his wife. Never does he tell his wife to love her husband. Now that don't mean she doesn't, or it's not supposed to. We put that in there, all right? Can't say, well, see I got a reason. No, you don't have a reason. But men, you're to lead the charge in this thing. And especially in this thing of not being bitter. Why do we get bitter? Why does bitterness get in our homes? Unforgiveness. I know we joke about memory of things 30 years ago. Somebody said, you know, talking about their wife, they said, my wife has the memory of an elephant. She can remember everything that happened. I mean, that just if you don't believe me, just ask her. Well, be that as it may, we joke about that, but at the end of the day, a lot of bitterness comes from an unwillingness to forgive. I said an unwillingness, not an impossibility, but an unwillingness to forgive. Forgiveness is critical to stopping the root of bitterness. And this has always really bothered me in the sense that it makes me search my heart again and again because the inspired word of God says, many be defiled. You know what that means? That's a real it's a real problem. It's a real problem. Many people are defiled by this root of bitterness. They won't forgive. And when unforgiveness is extended, it becomes bitterness in root form. And then you have to deal with the consequences of what bitterness does in your life Someone said this root of bitterness does two things. It forfeits blessings and invites chastisement. Because if you go back up in the text here of Hebrews 12, he says, Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous. It's not a pleasant thing to be chasing. Who likes to get in trouble? Especially from the Lord. I have a degree in being chastened by my parents. I don't know if there's it's possible to have something greater than a doctorate, but I'm pretty sure I got something greater than a doctorate. And chastening. I have never gone to the woodshed, and we had a literal woodshed, believe it or not, but I have never gone to the woodshed with joy. Never. I can still hear. Man, I'm fifty-one years old. I can still hear my dad, boy. He'd do his head like that. I knew what that meant. Go to the woodshed. That's where we're going. Sometimes he wouldn't even say it. He would just give me that look, and I thought, all right, here we go. Here we go. Man, grass did not grow between our house and the woodshed. I'll just tell you that right now. We had a path like a cattle trail to that place. But I'm grateful. I sound bitter, but I am grateful. But what I'm saying is, my friend, that it invites unforgiveness and this root of bitterness invites the chastening hand of the Lord. He says, No chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Now the Lord's telling me, and he's reminding me, that this thing of forgiveness is critical. He's reinforcing throughout the Word of God. Now you say, preacher, pardon me. How do I do that? How do I forgive? You don't know how grievous it is to me. You don't know how awful and how large and how difficult a thing it is. Can I remind you what the Bible says? Ephesians 4. 32. Here's the means by which we forgive. Even as God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you You know what I've got to do? I've got to go back to Calvary and be reminded of how God forgave me. And I've got to go back to my sin and be reminded that on a on a continual basis the God of heaven extends mercy and my direction and forgives me. when I cry out to him, how can I, who owed the thirty million, not forgive these little ten and twenty dollar debts? Well, the truth is that I can in God by Christ forgive like I have been forgiven. There's a verse of scripture I want you to see, Psalm 130. Psalm one hundred and thirty. Verse three and four The Bible says, if thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquities. Oh Lord, who shall stand? Now remember this. If God were to say, Brother Andy, let's settle the debt. Let's reckon right now. Would he stand? God were to say to me, hey, let's mark iniquities, who would stand? Tell me, brother or sister, if God were to say, Hey, let's it's it's time to settle the accounts. Let's let's mark them. Let's let's get Let's make payment due right now. Payment due. It's immediate right now. Payment due. If God were to do that for any of us, not one man or woman would stand. Not one. Not one Not one individual. You're fooling yourself, brother and sister, if you think you'll stand. If God were to mark iniquity. Do you know there's iniquity in us we don't even know about? The Bible talks about presumptuous sins and secret sins, and those are not sins done in secret, but they're sins that are hidden from our eyes because of our lack of understanding of what's right and wrong and our growth in the Lord. There are many things that are done even in ignorance that are still sin. And the Bible says if God were to mark all that, you'd be in trouble and I'd be in trouble. If. Now look at this next verse. But boy, I like butts in the Bible. Amen. When God interjects, and he interjects this, but there is forgiveness with thee that thou mayest be feared. God forgives sinners. Brother, sister, God is saying to you and I You need to forgive. Because your prayers are not going to be answered, and your sin is not going to be forgiven. If you don't forgive. Let me say this quickly. Forgiveness is not excusing wrong, nor is it covering sin. It's loosing the debt. Cutting the cord. You don't owe me. As far as I'm concerned , you don't owe me. I'm putting that behind me. It's forgiven. It's no longer, it's not an issue, it's not something that's going to be be held as collateral or something like that. My. I really believe that when homes come apart, forgiveness or the lack thereof is the issue. Nine times out of ten, and maybe ninety-nine point nine nine nine percent of the times out of ten, it's unforgiveness. When we have difficulties, and by the way, if you're going to live for the Lord, you better be a good forgiver. Or you're not going to live for God long. Because there's going to be many occasions To exercise forgiveness to others I know people that urged Brother Dickerson to write a book and he started writing a little bit about his life and he quit. I don't know why he quit I've thought as I I keep journals and I I I thought about, you know, I'd like to chronicle what's happened in the ministry. I get about halfway through it and I get so depressed, I'm thinking, man, I don't want to remember all that Because there's a whole lot of it that required me to forgive. And that's not just true of the preacher in the pulpit, that's true of the people in the pew. All of God's people. You see somebody that's been married for a long time? Someone was talking about that. Some of these anniversaries we celebrate, man, they're they're monumental anniversaries And you know what that's a testimony to? Forgiveness. Got to be a good forgiver. Oh, you say, no, no, they just married the right person. Well, go ask them about it. Uh uh di was was there ever an occasion? Let me ask you this, you be honest now. You who are married, was there ever an occasion to extend forgiveness in your marriage? Would you raise your hand? You know here's what I'm guessing? I'm guessing you had to do it today. I'm also guessing that probably you had to do it this afternoon, maybe on your way to church Maybe you're sitting here squirming saying, Would to God I'd done that before I got here. I wouldn't be so miserable in all this preaching he's been doing. I'm talking about you've got to be a good forgiver. And if we as the people of God go forward, we've got to be good forgivers. The answer is right here in the book. Yeah, I'll tell you, it shook me up a little bit when I read that in Matthew. And the Lord said, I'll not forgive your sin if you don't forgive. How many of you sometimes say, but Lord, I'm right? You know the Lord don't care if I'm right or not. I found that out, and He don't care if I'm right or not. He just tells me this is what I want you to do. And by the way, forgiveness extended Brings fruit that will remain in your spiritual life. The joy, you know, that fellowship that's restored. Isn't that a lot better? I don't know about you, but it makes it sweet. My preacher. He he used to make this statement. He said, You know, making up's the fun. He said, I start a fight with my wife just so we can make up. I don't recommend that. But there's something special about making amends. Forgiving Oh, may the Lord help us. It's a startling statement, but our Lord made it, and I believe He stands by it. For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. I don't want some petty little debt. Bring the shades down over my walk with God. It's too important to stay right with God and to violate what he's teaching here in our prayers. You know, why don't our prayers get answered? We pray for things we ask the Lord. I mean, I'm thankful for the ones that do, but I'm saying, have you ever just stopped and said, why are my prayers not being answered? What is it that's keeping back God from doing what it is he said he would do if we call upon him? It's not his lack of ability. John R. Rice was in East Texas years ago. This was in the in the Great Depression. And he was preaching in a town that hadn't had rain in something like three years, and they were ranchers, and you know if it don't rain, the grass don't grow, and your cattle can't eat, and there's problems. And he was preaching in this church and they were praying for rain and praying for rain and praying for rain and he was just a young preacher then, but he was walking with the Lord and the Lord said, The reason it don't rain here is because these folks aren't right with each other. And so he preached on forgiving. He said there were two ranchers in that church that went church to church together that hadn't spoken, I forgot how many years. And uh as he was preaching, God got a hold of one of them's heart. And he said that one old rancher got up and he walked over while John R. Rice was preaching. He said he walked over there and he sat down beside him. And he saw him whisper something in his ear, and he saw the brother shake his head and and say, no, no, no. And he's pointing to himself. And he said, next thing you know, these two big old rough East Texans are hugging each other's neck. asking for forgiveness and and and he said, I'll tell you something, God started doing things in that church. Then here's what he said. He said they got together and said, Preacher, we need to pray for rain. We really need rain. And he said they met on a Saturday morning and started to pray for rain. He said before noon, the clouds rolled in, the heavens filled with rain. And he said, God sent such a rain. He said that place never had trouble with drought in that part of the world, so long as he remembered up to that day he wrote that. He said, God heard their prayers. I'm telling you, I think a lot of times our prayers do not get answered because we will not forgive I'm not justifying sin or wrong. I'm talking about keeping my heart in a place where God can hear my prayers and work in my lives. I'm going to tell you something. I want God to hear my prayers for my kids. And I want God to hear my prayers for this church. And I want God to hear my prayers for your family. And I want God to hear my prayers. There are times you stand between life and death, and you want God to hear your prayers. God hear me, please There's a need here. God, please hear my prayers. And I'm telling you, I don't want to have a whole bunch of stuff to get taken care of so that my prayers can get answered. Let's be a forgiving people that our prayers might be answered. Would you stand with me