And I'm glad he said come see the place where the Lord lay. Past tense. He's not there anymore. We thank God for that that we have a risen Savior. I want you to turn in your Bibles to Galatians chapter number five. Galatians chapter number five. I'm going to read my text in just a minute. But while you're finding that part of your Bible, What I'm going to preach on tonight, the world has very little of. And when I tell you what it is here in just a few moments, you're going to say, yes, that's right. We do not live in a world. that is characterized by this particular thing. But you know, I I don't expect the world i if you and I expect the world to be like Christ, we're going to be waiting a mighty long time. Simply because it's the world. And the Bible tells us that the the world is a temporary thing that's passing away. So we need not look for the things that I'm going to be preaching about tonight in the world. But you know what? Sadly, a lot of our churches don't have this either. And when I say our churches, I'm talking about Bible-believing churches. I'm talking about those people that we don't I let me just say this quickly, we don't identify with a movement. Okay? I I know there's an IBC movement, they I guess they call it an uh independent Baptist Church movement and what have you. We are an independent Baptist church, but we don't identify with the movement. We try to identify with the Word of God. And stay true to the scriptures. That's what's really important. But what I'm going to be preaching about tonight, you just hardly can't. In fact, the very opposite of it is the mark. of a lot of our churches. It's ingrained so deeply in the culture of what our churches are That that it's it's almost compromised to go with the scripture and against the movement You say, preacher, what are you going to talk about? I'll tell you in just a minute. But our our our world's not like this, and the church isn't like this. And here's the reason the church isn't like this, it's because Christians aren't like this. And sadly, what I'm going to be preaching on, we need a revival of in the people of God. I'm talking about the Lord's people. Talking about you, talking about me, including myself. And so, with your Bibles open, Galatians chapter 5. I'm just going to read one verse, and I'm actually only going to read part of that verse. The verse is verse 22, and it says, But the fruit of the Spirit is Gentleness. Skip down, but the fruit of the spirit is gentleness. One, two, three, four, five Aspects in gentleness. So the Lord helping me, I want to preach on the gentleness of the Spirit of God. The gentleness. I think we'd all agree here tonight that gentleness cannot be found in this world. This world's a rough outfit. And I find the more we get away from Bible influence and we get away from uh the the truth as as far as it dominates in a society, we get harder, meaner. Um when I read about uh uh the church and and I I think about the church, you know what I realize? That the church doesn't lack this, that that the church lacks this as well. I'm talking about our churches If you were to say now, I'm going to give you ten characteristics of an independent Baptist church, I guarantee you gentleness wouldn't be one of them. Joe Arthur said this week, he said a preacher called him and said, You can't preach for us no more because you're not mean enough. That's what they told him. You are not mean enough to preach in our circle anymore. And I have to give my head a shake and say, where do you find that stuff in the Bible? Where does being mean equate being true? Or where does being mean characterize yourself as a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ? Notice this. Again, I think it's lacking in the church. And beloved, oh my, it's lacking among God's people, too. Gentleness. There's a coarseness. That's exercise. By the way, this fruit of the Spirit has to do with man to man. The aspects of the fruit of the Spirit have to do Godward and Manward. Inward, Godward, Manward. Love, joy, peace, that's inward. That's the working of God in your heart. Love, joy, peace is something God does on the inside of you These other attributes of the fruit of the Spirit, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, those are those dealings with man. These are the fruit of the Spirit, the aspects of the Spirit as He works in our lives Among each other or with each other. And so what we're being told here is that if we are filled with the Spirit of God, let me just say it this way, if we are right with God and we are under the control of of the Holy Spirit of God, then one aspect of our dealings with each other will be gentleness I want us to pray and ask the Lord to help us. You pray for me, please, and I'll pray for you, and let's just pray God will work. Heavenly Father, we bow in Jesus' name. We certainly need you. We acknowledge, Lord, both preacher and hearer, that except you speak, Lord, to our hearts we'll leave empty. But we're bowing tonight, Lord, trusting that this is the Word of God. We thank you for it. And believing that the Spirit of God intends to do something for us. And so, Father, I pray that you'll undertake in this meeting, meet the great need of every heart, and be glorified in this place, and we'll thank you for all that you do. Help us now, Lord. We pray in Jesus' strong name. And God's people said. Amen. So what does it mean to be gentle? What what's the Bible word here? There are three other places this word is translated, and it's not pardon me, it's not translated gentleness. It's translated kindness. But it can also mean a goodness of disposition. Here's another meaning for this word gentleness. By the way, it's a compound word. There's a great deal of meaning in one word. It means a softness of manners. a mildness of temper, a sweetness of disposition, and a tenderness. It's the opposite of being short, harsh, and rough. Do you know there's three other times in the Bible this word's used in its statement in gentleness? Two times in the Old Testament it speaks of God Let's look at one of them. Go back to 2 Samuel chapter number 22. 2 Samuel chapter number 22. This is repeated, what I'm going to read, you might want to note it, in Psalm 18. David wrote both. But in 2 Samuel chapter number 22 , And verse number thirty-six, look what David said This was one of those psalms that David wrote later in life. In fact, I believe that he wrote this psalm near the end of his life because verse 23 says, Now these be the last words of David. Or chapter 23. But in 2 Samuel chapter 22 and verse 36, the Bible says, Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation. And thy gentleness hath made me great. You know what David testified at the end of the run? He said, You know what, God, you've been gentle with me. Your dealings with me, Lord, you've not been. By the way, if God were rough with us, we'd all be dead. Because he's God. If God were to handle us in a way, perhaps even like we deserve, that you you and I wouldn't live another day. But but the Lord's gentle. David said, Because God, you've been gentle with me. You've made me great. And that word means to multiply, prosper, bless. And so what happened in David's life? David said, I've got to this place in my life, because God, you've been gentle with me. You've been gentle in your dealings. You've been gentle in your convictions. You have been gentle in all of your corrections. Lord, you've been gentle with me. If there's something we ought to praise God for tonight, it is this. God's a gentle God. First Corinthians, I want you to see the other place it's used. First Corinthians chapter, or excuse me, 2 Corinthians chapter number 10. 2 Corinthians chapter number 10 And Paul's writing to these Corinthian believers and he's speaking to them about their situation. And he's saying, now I, Paul myself, beseech you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ. Who in presence and base among you, but being absent and bold towards you. As he pleads with these believers, he references the fact that Jesus Christ is gentle. That goodness of dispos disposition, that kindness, softness of manner, mildness of tempers, uh the the tenderness of the Lord He's saying, the Lord Jesus is gentle. I realize something tonight. I realize preaching this in some independent Baptist churches that people would say, old preacher's gone soft. I'm trying to say in this book. And the Holy Spirit of God, the Bible tells us where his fruits are, where that fruit is rather, where he's working. You know what he's going to do? He's going to make you gentle. And Jesus Christ is the greatest model of gentleness that I could hold up before you. You go over to Mark 10, not going to do that right now, but you mark it down and read it. Mark chapter number 10. The the a group of people brought little children to Jesus. And they brought these little children and they said, Lord bless, would you bless these? Would you take them up in your arms and ask the God of heaven? Little did some of those folks know that they were being held by the hands of the God of heaven. And he said, I want you to hold them and I want you to bless them. And what did the disciples do? They rebuked them. You look up that word, it means they were sharp and short. In other words, they come they say, get away. He don't have time for those little children. And you know what Jesus said? He he said, Oh, whoa, wait a minute. Except you become as one of these little children. You can't be converted. And he and and I like this That last verse, I I think it's verse number sixteen in Mark 10, it says, He took them up in his arms and he blessed them. I don't know who those kids were, but they were a a blessed lot. Because our Lord took them up in his arms and he blessed them. Do you know what you gotta do? You've got to be with children? You've got to be gentle. You had multiple children when that older child held that youngest child, you you what'd you have to say? Now be gentle. Be gentle. You know, don't don't be rough with it. It's little. Don't be you you know hard with it. You know something? When Sarah was born, I I knew nothing about children. And I knew nothing about how to handle a baby. We had a a nurse from Germany. And I'll never forget, she said, now pick pick her up and take her back to the room. They washed her and cleaned her up. And so I'm looking at her and I'm not quite sure how to do this thing. And so I noticed she had taken that um blanket and she, what do they call that, swaddled her. Wrapped her up and I thought, you know what, she's as tight as a bug in a rub. And right there on that little blanket was a nice little handle So I just pick her up. And I started off with her, and I'll never forget that German nurse. She went, no, no, no, no. And man, she got in my face. She said, you hold the baby like this. She was rough, man. I was scared to death. I was glad when she got off shift. Because I thought, man, that lady's gonna spank me before I get out of here. She's bad But you know, I had to learn something. I had to be gentle. I'm saying tonight that one of the aspects of the fruit of the Spirit of God is gentleness. It's what God wants to do in your heart and mind so that we will be what pleases Him. If there's one thing we need a revival of, is a revival of gentleness. Can I say it like this? If I'm not being gentle, I'm not right with the Lord. It's what the Bible says. The fruit of the Spirit is gentleness If I'm not being gentle, I'm not being filled with the Holy Ghost. I'm not being under the control of the Holy Spirit. And can I say to you, brother, sister, being filled with the Spirit of God is not a luxury. It's not an option. It's an absolute necessity to be a God-pleasing Christian. We must be under the fullness of the Holy Ghost. We must be under His control. We must be led and directed. As the Scripture says, walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. So can I give you some thoughts about how we need or when we need to be gentle? If you're making notes number one tonight, we need to be gentle with young Christians. Will you look over here in 1 Thessalonians? 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, Paul's writing these Thessalonicans, he's writing these Christians He spent six weeks there maximum, some believe four, but it appears that he spent six weeks in Thessalonica, was run out of the community. And left these young believers, they've been saved six weeks. And 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 says they were idolaters before they got saved. If I can just put it like this, they were raw pagans. I mean they worshiped everything under the sun. They were idol worshippers. And they got saved. They're six weeks old, and Paul has to leave. And he writes a letter back to check on them. And here's what he said. He said verse seven, but we were gentle among you Even as a nurse cherisheth her children, gentle like a nurse. That's a beautiful picture. You know that German nurse I told you about, she was mean with me. She didn't like me from that point on. And she was ornary cane tankers every time she came around. But when she would pick up Sarah, she was so gentle I thought how can something be so hateful and hard with somebody and be so soft with a baby? And so she took that little baby, I mean she just She she she she was the one who actually had bathed her and and all that. She was just so gentle and so loving and and she's like a an old Rottweiler dog every time I talked to her. She was just awful But you know what? When you when you deal with young Christians, I'm talking about people that are new in the faith, and listen, they might have been saved a long time, but they didn't get very far. That's a young Christian. You can be saved twenty years and still be a young Christian. You you can be saved thirty years and still be an infant. The reality is that there are people who have not gotten very far in their walk with the Lord. And you know what the Bible says? We've got to be gentle with them. They're fragile. I mean, I'll tell you, it doesn't take a whole lot to knock them off course It might take i i it may be just one thing that's that's dealt with, maybe in the wrong spirit, and next thing you know, that you've driven them out uh away from the Lord rather than help get them closer to the Lord If we're going to be gentle, and we ought to be, we need to be gentle with young Christians. We ought to be gentle in our words that we speak to them. You know, it's an awful somber responsibility to be entrusted with a baby Christian in the church. By the way, let me say this: God doesn't put his babies in funeral homes. But he'll put them in living assemblies. And you know what? He says, be gentle with them. Be gentle with them. You know, I found over the years that young Christians often get discouraged from the outset, not by the devil. I know the devil uses things. What I'm trying to say is it's not a direct attack of the devil. It's not the world that gets them off track. You know what it often is? It's often a Christian who's not gentle. And they try to set them straight. Brother, sister, can I tell you it's not your job to set anybody straight? It's the work of the Holy Spirit of God. The Holy Ghost will set you straight. If you're walking with God and reading your Bible and praying He'll stretch. You don't have to worry about fixing everybody's mess. The Holy Ghost is. That's his job. We've got to be gentle with young Christians. When the Apostle Paul dealt with this church, by the way. You ought to read the epistles in the light of how they were written. When you read the letters of 1st and 2 Corinthians, Paul's dealing with Christians who are carnal. Not Christians that were young. In fact, they had grown so much in some ways that he said, Uh, You don't come behind any of the churches in the gifts. They're a gifted church In other words, they were a growing gifted people, but there was carnality among them. And when he dealt with the Thessalonians, who were predominantly younger, weaker Christians, he spoke differently to them than he did to the Corinthians. You know why? Because he had to be gentle with them. We must be gentle with young Christians. You know we ought to pray. Lord help me to remember how it was when I got started. Now sadly, sadly, some forget, and perhaps some never know what it's like to be brought out of darkness into light. Brought out of the depths of sin and brought to the Savior. And so they they they they they lack the appreciation for the great things God does when he changes a person's life. But not just the appreciation, but the shock to the system when you become a Christian. Dr. Hitchens told me when he and his dear wife got saved, the first evangelist, I believe it was, you heard, and the meeting that was held here, Billy Kelly preached it. And Dr. Itchens come out of that Methodist background. Can you imagine walking into a church and the first person, the first evangelist you hear in the Bible you are in is Billy Kelly? Some of you don't know who I'm talking about, but I'm going to tell you something. I promise you it was a shock to his system and hers food. I guarantee you they thought, what planet did we just land on? This is different. We never heard stuff like this. Am I telling the truth? It was a a total different culture than what you were used to. Sometimes we think everybody ought to act like us, everybody ought to be like us, and everybody ought to know why we're like who what we are, and I've got news for you, not everybody is. They don't know. And and it may be there's some things about uh about us that they they ought not to repeat. There's some things maybe it'd be good i if if we followed them rather than they following us. Amen. So we've got to be gentle, church, we young Christians. Can I give you another one? You're at Luke chapter 15, real quick. Luke chapter 15, I believe we ought to be gentle with young Christians, but we also, number two, ought to be gentle with returning prodigals. Returning prodigals. You say, what 's the prodigal? It's someone who's part of the family, but went out into the hog pen. Realize that the devil's a liar and it's not worth it and got right with God and come home. That's who a prodigal is. They get right with the Lord and they say, Hey, I'm done with that stuff. I'm coming back. My father hadn't changed. His house is still where it was. And I'm going back to my father's house. You know what they need? They need somebody to be gentle. Luke chapter 15 verse 20, the Bible says, talking about the prodigal's father, he arose and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion and ran, fell on his neck, and kissed him. You know what that is? He is gentle with him. He was gentle with him. He said, Son, I'm glad you're home. He didn't give him a sermon. He didn't give him a scolding. He just gave him some love. Fell on his neck, kissed him, wept I read the story years ago. There was a man in the Civil War, got away from God and wrote a letter back home, said I'd like to come home. He said, I understand I've disgraced my family and dishonored the Lord. But I'm coming home at such and such date. And there's an old uh tree, there's an old peach tree. And it's down next to the train station. And if you welcome me home, would you tie one white handkerchief up there to let me know? He said, if there's no white handkerchief in that peach tree, he said, I'll stay on the train and go my way and I'll bother you no more. That young man as he rode home, he was he was so anxious and so concerned, my you know, will they accept me? Will they bring me back? Do they want me or do they even love me anymore? He said that train there was a bend in the in the tracks and as you turn that bend then he could see that tree. He said he didn't have uh hardly the the s the the spirit to look and so he said to another pastor he said can you look down the line there he said do you see that tree that peach tree they said oh yes He said, is there a handkerchief hanging in that tree? And they said, no. He said, oh. His heart sank. They said, there's just not one handkerchief. He said, let me tell you something. It looks like it's snowed. That tree's covered in handkerchiefs. You know what that is? That's gentleness. That's somebody saying, Hey, I love you. I'm going to tell you something. If God treated us like we often treat prodigals, we'd all be in trouble. I'm going to say this, if you've been saved any length of time, you've been a prodigal. You've been there. Man, you've been there and you've had to say, God have mercy on me. Forgive me I've been down here in the hog pen. I shouldn't have been there. Lord, clean me up, please. And you know what he does? He does what this father did. He falls on their neck. Kisses them, has compassion on them. You know the story of the account. As you read on, what did he do? He killed the fatted calf, put a ring on his finger, robe on his back, put shoes on his feet, and said in the son that was dead, he's now alive. And they began to rejoice over the prodigal who had come home. Oh, brother, sister, how many prodigals do you and I know? How many prodigals are far from the Father's house? How many prodigals are are are living out there? They think man they're living, you know, and you watching And you're standing there and you know what you're seeing? You see them heading for the h uh the hog pen. You know they're heading to that pig pen. You know what's coming, you know what's down the road. You know if they keep on this path, it's going to end down there in the hog pen. And they're going to get down there and pray to God they come to themselves and see that the hog pen 's not where God wants them. It's not where God saved them to be And so they get up and they come home. And you know what they need from you? They need gentleness. You say, preacher, that father had every right to chew him out, he did. That father had every right to just let him have it, just to give him both barrels. That father had every right to set him straight. He did, he did, he did. He was his father. He had offended his father. He had sinned against his father. He had done wrong. But the father knew this young man had been beat up enough by the devil. And this young man had come to his senses down yonder, and what he needed now was some compassion, and he said, Come on back I was just reading here yesterday, the day before, about that man in in the Corinthian church who sinned, and Paul said, Forgive him, guys. He said, if you don't forgive him, he's going to be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow. He had gotten right with God. He had gotten his heart right with the Lord. And he said, You better just settle down and forgive this man. God has dealt with him now. You forgive him, bring him back. Don't let the devil destroy him by unforgiveness. Ah, how we need to be gentle with returning prodigals. Can you handle a few more? Number three, we need to be gentle. Go with me to Acts fifteen I'm gonna try to hurry. I got three more. We'll try to get these. Acts chapter number fifteen. And uh Let me read verse 39 here. If you're making notes, we need to be gentle with young Christians. We need to be gentle with returning prodigals. Number three, we need to be gentle. with disagreeing brethren. Sometimes we learn from the Bible what we should not do as well as what we should do. You know the story here, the account. Paul and Barnabas are returning from their missionary journey and they're getting ready to go back, and Barnabas says, Let's take John Mark. Paul says, No way. He quit halfway through. Now we don't know anything other than he went home. I've heard fanciful preaching on that. I heard a fella get up one time and said, I bet he is missing Coca-Cola back in the back in his hometown. I was like, you knucklehead They didn't even have Coca-Cola. They drunk water. Bad water. Grape juice. All that mess. But but listen, these they got in a disagreement. Paul said, I'm not taking him. Silas said, or Barnabas said, I think we should. And look what happened in verse 39. The Bible says this, and the contention was so sharp between them. That they departed asunder one from another. You know what that means? They weren't gentle. They got in a row. The contention, that word means they butted heads. And they butted heads so hard and they got so mad at each other, they parted company. That means in our language they broke fellowship. That'd be like if me and Andy and uh I'm glad you hadn't moved. I'm glad you're staying close. But that'd be like me and Andy getting in such a fuss, and Andy said, Preacher, I'm not talking to you, I'm not even coming to this church no more, I'm gone. And we break fellowship and never speak. That's what the great missionary Paul did with Barnabas. And it was all over a man who had we don't know that he messed up. We don't know what happened. He just went home. And he went home, and and God knows we ought to leave those things with the Lord, but he went home, but thank God God wasn't finished with him. Paul was, but God wasn't. Paul said, no more of that. John Mark. I'm done. Finished. You know, when brethren disagree We better be careful that we're gentle with each other. I'm not talking about going against cardinal doctrine, plain teaching of the Bible. That's I mean if it's right here black and white as plains the nose on your face, I mean we have nothing to do but agree with what the Bible says. But there's a whole lot of stuff, there's a whole lot of things in life we may not see eye to eye on. And there's all kinds of reasons for it. It it may be it it may have to do with background, it may have to do uh with with with where we are spiritually, it it it can have a thousand different reasons, but the point is That when brethren disagree, they better learn to be gentle. I listened to preaching this evening, and I'm I'm that close to sending a letter. I'm not Paul, but I'll write a letter. Because I love this young brother, and he's getting a bad spirit about another preacher, and he's not going to prosper in ministry as long as he's bad-mouthing somebody else. You don't get nowhere in life or ministry by running somebody else down. You this whole world might step on people to get somewhere, but Christians can't do that because God will take you the woodshed. And listen, when brethren disagree, and you know what I found? I I don't know too many that disagree over anything real important. A lot of times it's just silly. We disagree over decorations. Now you laugh, but I know brothers that look at this church and say, y'all getting worldly. You got flowers in your church. Well I'm gonna tell you something. It looks a whole lot better than a plain old window to me. I'm thankful for it. And and brethren will disagree over uh you know, they say, well, you know, I uh uh that brother uh he ministers to me. I like it. And again, we're not talking about compromising or or people that don't believe the Bible. But but just preferences, you know, a and and opinions and our own personal uh I mean there's there's personalities that just sort of clash and you can't There's preachers that you might enjoy that I can't enjoy for various reasons and it has nothing to do with doctrine or their teaching. You get what I'm trying to say? And what I'm saying is that when brethren disagree, we better be gentle with each other. When Abraham and Lot's herdsmen fought, you remember what he said? Abraham said, We be brethren. If I can say it like this, there's no sense in it. If God's people can't handle God's people right, we can't handle nobody right. So when brethren disagree, my number four, let me hurry. We need to be gentle with young Christians. We need to be gentle with returning prodigals. We need to be gentle with disagreeing brethren. And number four, we need to be gentle with burdened, battle-weary saints. Same chapter, Acts 15 They've come back from their missionary journey and somebody comes and says, hey, over here in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia, somebody came from Jerusalem and said, we've got to keep the law. Somebody came and told us we need to be circumcised. We need to follow Moses' law. And so the apostles and the brethren in Jerusalem write a letter. You ought to read that sometimes. It's in verses 23 to 31. But I like what they said in verse 28. For it seemed good to the Holy Ghost and to us to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things. That you abstain from meats offered to idols, from blood, from things strangled, from fornication, from which, if ye keep yourselves, ye shall do well. Fare ye well. You know what they said? These Gentile, by the way, you go back and study the book of Acts and find out what we're talking about, these churches in Antioch, Syria, and Cilicia, every one of them were under the devil's thumb. They were in a battle. They had gotten saved out of idolatry. They're trying to serve the Lord, and the community they're in makes it hard on them. The devil who hates them is trying to hurt them and hunt them down. And there's all kinds of opposition. Now this comes from within. You've got to keep the law. And the apostles write this very gentle letter. And says, I'm not going to put more birds on it. You know what they could have? I mean, they could have given them a list of a million things you ought not to do Because you're Gentiles, you you don't know the Jewish law, and there's some things you ought to incorporate in your life, but they didn't do that. They said they give them those three or four restrictions, and they said, We'll put no other burden on you at this time. You know what they understood? You can only handle so much. I hell we forgot that. You can only handle so much. These are battle-wearied, burdened saints. They're broken down. The devils how did these apostles respond? They handled them gently. So we're not going to put any more burdens on you. We'll tell you this. You take care of that. The Holy Ghost. And you know what I like they said? They said it seemed good to the Holy Ghost. That means they wanted to respond in such a way that God would be pleased with because they realized they were dealing with God's people. And when we're when we're dealing with burden, battle, weary saints, we need to be careful that we're gentle with them. You know, there's sometimes there's a lot you'd like to say that you ought not to say. Preacher friend of mine was in a meeting the other day and uh he uh a fellow said to him, he said, You look like you've got a lot on your mind. He said, I do. And the brother said, Well just speak your mind. He said, I can't He said, What's wrong with you? You've never been one to shy away from controversy. He said the Holy Ghost won't let me. Sometimes you just keep your mouth shut and head down and go on. And you're better off. Sometimes you just you you know what you're doing, you're trying to be gentle Not everybody needs your peace of mind. No, they don't. Now you may be inclined to give it. You may be chomping at the bits to say it. But beloved, every once in a while you need to say, you know what I'm going to do? I'm just going to be gentle Years ago, when I wasn't right with God, was running from the call. I lived foolish. I regret those years. And I'll tell you, I believe my dad could have really derailed my life if he had handled me like he was prone to The one time, and I'm sure there were others, but the one time that sticks out in my memory more than any others, is when I sat in a camper and he said, Son, you're disappointing me. He said, I prayed, and he told me things he had prayed, and he said it just breaks my heart. You know what? He was gentle with me. And in that moment, I wish he'd been rough. I thought, give me a spanking. Light me up. Tune me up. I can handle that. I'm well acquainted with that sort of thing. Just do that. In other words, he just he handled me gently. And that gentleness broke my hard, wicked heart. God used that joke. Listen, what a belt couldn't do, the blessed Holy Ghost in that man did I'm saying that there's times we need to be gentle. Burdened, battle, we're saints, individuals. We don't know where they are, what's going on, but we need to be in tune enough with the Holy Ghost to sometimes say, hold on. I'm going to be gentle. It's a wonder to me that John Mark agreed in the latter part of his life to go help Paul I marvel at that. Because Paul wrote him off, and Paul and and yet here Paul at the end of his life says, Hey, bring John Mark. He's poffled with me. That doesn't mean that something magically happened to John Mark between those years, but something spiritual happened in Paul's heart. He realized that, hey, maybe not everybody I write off God wrote off. Well, we need to be gentle. One more and I'll quit, I'll just promise In Titus Chapter three Titus Chapter three The Bible says we need to be gentle with young Christians. We need to be gentle with returning prodigals. We need to be gentle with disagreeing brethren. We need to be gentle with burdened, battle-weary saints. But I'll tell you, Paul here in Timothy's in Titus 's letter, he just throws the door wide open and says, you need to be gentle with everybody. Look what he says, chapter 3, verse 1. Put them in mind, to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work, to speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers but what's that word? Gentle. Showing all meekness unto who? All men. You know what that tells me? That it's always in order to be gentle. I'll just say it like this there's no excuse to be rough I wanted to tell Brother Joe Arthur, and if I see him I will. I'd like to tell Brother Joe Arthur, wear that thing as a badge that you're not mean enough to preach with that crowd. Thank God the Holy Ghost did something better for you. Thank the Lord you're not. God wants us to be gentle. The fruit of the Spirit is gentleness. It's written in the Word of God. And if I'm under the control of the Holy Spirit, I won't be rough with God's people. I won't be harsh and short. I won't set them straight and tune them up and all the other words we could use. I'll just handle them gently. By the way, you're dealing with the king's sons and daughters. Help me, Lord. You're dealing with the king's sons and daughters. I believe God in mercy gave my daughter the husband she needed. I love him. But I sat in this office back here when he said, Preacher, I want to marry your daughter. And we had a very personal, candid conversation. And I said, I love her more than my life. And I'm just going to serve you notice. You better be good to her. She's my daughter. And I said other things that won't be disclosed in public. Not that they were out of order, but she's my daughter. She's my flesh and blood. Flesh and blood. You're his daughters, you're his sons. You belong to him If we just get a hold of this and look at each other like we really are, I think we'd have different dealings. Man to man, man to you know with each other. Because we realize there he is. And we're part of that family. And I'm just trying to say tonight that if we're filled with the Spirit, if we're under the control of the Spirit, if we're bearing the fruit of the Spirit, One of the outstanding characteristics in our lives is that we will be gentle in our dealings one with another. May the Lord help us. Don't let the world influence the kind of Christian you are I know they're rough. I've worked in the world just like many of you do. I know all the j all the the the Shaming and all the name calling, all the joking and all that foolishness. I've worked in rough settings with rough men and been through all that, no know exactly what it's like to go in there, holy roller and deacon so and so and preacher and all that foolishness and then a whole lot of other stuff too to make you feel ashamed And there's a roughness about the world that I'll tell you when you come to church I don't know about you, but I'm glad we get to escape it. This ought to be a place where we can come in here and we can say, thank God there's somewhere where they're going to be gentle. Now make sure it's this place. Make sure this is a little refuge from all that mess out there. Don't bring what's out there in here. What's out there, the Bible says, passes away. He that does the will of God abides forever. There's a permanence about the way we handle each other. And I'm going to tell you something. There'll come a day you'll be remembered for how you handled other people. I've been in church my whole life and I I I can think of names right now. If I called them out, you wouldn't know them, but I know them and I can think of them and and I you know what I think about? I think about how they treat you. How they handled you. My preacher who's in heaven, I'll never forget how you'd come to our Sunday school class and he'd pat you on the head. Hope you had a good week, son. I say he'd lick his finger. Remember when Mamas and Daddies do that and put your hair down? I I look like alfalfa half the time and he would he would put my hair down. He'd straighten my necktie. He'd said, now son, you're in God's house. Let's do our best. We're here to honor the Lord. He was so kind. His dear wife, I was in Bible college, she came one night and she brought a sweater. I mean one of these Mr. Rogers sweaters. I wasn't wearing a coat, didn't even have a long sleeve shirt on, it's wintertime. And I'm sitting in class and she knocks on the door, and of course, the pastor's wife Uh uh uh Dr. Bill Day was teaching and he turned and he said, Oh yes, Miss Sexton, what what what can we do? She said, I need to speak to Jamie Grooms. I thought, oh my, what'd I do? And so I went out in the hallway and she said, now here. I'd stop by to see them and talk to them a minute before school started, and and she said, put this on, it's cold. I noticed you didn't have one on I saw Miss Sexton, I appreciate that, but I I can I can't wear that. She said, No, you're going to wear it. She said, You're a preacher, and if a preacher gets cold, his voice gets harsh. And she said, nobody wants to hear somebody croak like a frog. Put that sweater on. You said, what'd you do? I said, yes, ma'am, put that ugly, ugly, ugly sweater on. I went back in there and there were some knuckleheads I went to school with, and they're like They actually called me Mr. Rogers for a little while. I said, look, fellas, this isn't gentle, but I'll whip you if you call me that again. I do not want to be called Mr. Rogers. I mean the little V and all that snyway It was an old man's sweater for sure. You know what? She'd just been gentle. I remember that I remember some I could tell you and I'm not. And they weren't very gentle. In fact they didn't like you, didn't like kids, didn't like I I remember when I got saved and the Lord really got me excited about serving the Lord, had three elderly women come up and say, Now one day Young man, you're going to be just like us. You'll get over this enthusiasm. And I'll be honest with you, I said in my heart, God, please don't let me get like them ever. They're the nastiest outfit I know in this church. They've always criticizing somebody. They're always finding something wrong. They've always got something negative to say. God, please, if that's what Christianity is, don't let me be one I member 'em. And let me tell you something, brother, sister, folk are gonna remember you too For how you handled them. Oh, may the Lord help us. May help me, God. We need to be gentle. Let the world be rough. You can't blame it on your personality, because if you're saved, you got the Holy Ghost. And the Holy Ghost will make you what you ought to be, not what you used to be. And let's pray tonight. God please help me to be gentle. Would you stand with me?