Please and quickly go with me to Galatians chapter number six. Galatians chapter number six and when you find your place I'd like to begin reading in verse eleven Galatians 6 and 11. The Bible has a very clear message to us here, Galatians chapter 6 and verse number 11. I'll invite you to stand with me, please, when you find your place. Galatians 6, 11. The Bible says, you see how large a letter I have written unto you with mine own hand. As many as desire to make a fair show in the flesh, they constrain you to be circumcised, only lest they should suffer persecution for the cross of Christ. But neither they themselves who are circumcised keep the law, but desire to have you circumcised that they may glory in your flesh. But God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision but a new creature. And as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and mercy and upon the Israel of God. I want you to look at that phrase, God forbid, that I should glory saving the cross. Father, would you help us now this morning? We stand where Lord, we certainly need help from above, both the preacher and the hearer. We ask, Lord, that you would do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. Give us ears to hear what the Spirit saith. And Lord, we'll thank you for the work you accomplish. For Lord, our confidence is in thee. How grateful we are for your goodness and mercy. I thank you for the mighty cross of the Lord Jesus. And would you help us now to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus and hide me behind that cross? For it's in Jesus' name we pray. And God's people said, You can be seated There are a lot of things in the Bible that we know what they say, but I wonder do we know what they mean? Uh we know there's part of an old hymn that tells us that we glory in the cross And here in this text it says again that we glory in the cross. And he's not talking about a fascination with an emblem or a symbol, or the creating of an idol out of some particular image. But he is emphasizing a central truth that is fundamental to the doctrine of Christianity, to the very Truth of Christianity. Everything that we believe is built upon the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. Everything we hold dear depends on what happened on that mighty cross. When you think about these doctrines, think about salvation by grace. The substitutionary death, the atonement, redemption, reconciliation, adoption, imputed righteousness, having peace with God All depend on the cross of Jesus Christ. If you take the cross of Jesus Christ out of that, all of that collapses like a house of cards. So what are we saying? What is Paul saying when he said, God forbid that I should glory, save, in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ? He's saying a few very simple things, and I want to magnify those this morning in your hearing. Number one, I believe what he's saying is that I believe in the exclusive work Of Jesus Christ. The exclusive work of Jesus Christ. Go back up in that chapter In verses eleven and twelve of Galatians chapter six, and you'll notice what he says, you see how large a letter I've written unto you with mine own hand. As many as desire to make a fair show in the flesh, they constrain you to be circumcised, only lest they should suffer persecution for the cross of Christ. The Apostle Paul is pointing out that he said, God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. But he believed that there was nothing you could do that could add to or take away from what Jesus did when he died on the cross. There is absolutely nothing you can do. Now you say, preacher, uh, you know, we're not Jews. We don't believe like they believed. Yeah, but I want to point out a few things that I think sometimes we try to add to the work of Jesus Christ on the cross. Man, you know one thing's true about man, he really hasn't changed no matter how long we've been on this earth. Adam and Eve had the same problems that you and I have. And the reality is that man is man wherever you find man. And so we often want to add to that's what was happening with these Judaizers. Notice what they were putting an emphasis on. Paul said they desire To make a fair show in the flesh. In other words, the emphasis of their religion was on externals, things on the outside. Things that people could see and congratulate them for. Things that would make them look spiritual. Things that would say, you know, look at look at me, look, look at how I'm a follower of Jesus Christ. Look at what I do that makes me more spiritual than those Who don't do that as well. Does any of that sound sort of familiar? He said they're wanting to make a fair show in the flesh. They they emphasize the external. Friends, salvation is a work of God in the heart of man. It begins on the inside. Someone said it's the real inside job When God saves you, he does something on the inside. Now it gets to the outside, but beloved, what we often do is try to exchange the outside for the inside. The Pharisees of Jesus' day were masters at fixing the outside at the neglect of the inside. In fact, Jesus called them whited sepulchres. In other words, he said, you are graveyards that have been whitewashed, that look pretty on the outside, but you're full of dead men's bones on the inside. They had the external down. They had the external religion, I mean down pat, and they were living it out, but yet what was missing was that work of God and grace in their heart. I I really believe, I I've laid at night thinking about this, I really believe that some of the greatest mission fields in this country are the average churches on Sunday morning across the land. Because they're people trapped in the external that don't have the internal. They come to church, they sing hymns, they pray prayers, they read scriptures, they hear sermons, but they are whitewashed sepulchres. Everything is external. There's nothing on the inside been fundamentally changed by the marvelous grace of God. I want you to notice that Paul, as he speaks here of glorying in the cross, he is saying that Jesus Christ and him alone is the hope of my salvation. But these Judaizers emphasize the fair show. But notice what else it says in verse number 12, only lest they should suffer persecution for the cross of Christ. You see, they sought to marry two things that are incompatible. They wanted to take the works of the law and salvation by grace and make them one and the same. Because to do that would bridge a gap, would make amends with two warring parties. It would say that, you know what, it's okay. Over here's a group of people that that say, if you believe that, and and the Jews were masters at this And persecuting these people uh for their faith in Jesus Christ alone, and they were considered against the law and against Moses and against tradition, and and so they became the object of their attack. And so there rose a people who were bridge builders. And so they tried to build a bridge between that persecuting crowd and that crowd that was persecuted. And so what they did is they tried to take out the teeth of the gospel. They took the potency away from the truth. They tried to make the gospel message palatable to a lost man. Church, hear me, please. The gospel has never been palatable to the lost man, but it always has been profitable. It does not taste good, if you just want me to say it plain. It does not taste good, but it'll do you good. There's a part of the gospel that is offensive to lost men. The gospel strips and leaves me helpless. The gospel says there's nothing you can do. Christ did it all. The gospel says he alone can save. And you know what man wants to do? He wants to put in his two cents. When God don't need it. I gotta put in my little part. I gotta do my little part. It's not circumcision today. That's not even an issue. But I'll tell you what is. Well I pray that sinner's prayer. That's man putting in his two cents. Well, but preacher, you know I I'm trying to live right and do good. That's man trying to put in his two cents. Well, I go to church and I I'm a member of and I do thus and so. I've been baptized. I do all of those things. Beloved, please hear me this morning. The reality is, is that that's man trying to put his input in his own salvation. And my friend, you know what Grace says? Grace says it can't do anything. but fall helpless at the feet of Jesus and find mercy from him alone. That's all I can do. That fair show that fair show turned into uh this this false teaching It's sort of the fig leaf mentality. Adam and Eve, when they sinned, understood that they needed a covering for themselves. So rather than go to God and get his covering, they came up with their own. And so they began to sew their own covering. They began to make their own religion. They have gone, they were the starters, if you will, the beginning of this man-made works religion that says I've got to do a little something so I can be right with God You know, we think if I well, you know, here the devil aggravates you with something. He'll say, Well, when you supposedly got saved, did you cry? Did you shed tears? Did you shed enough tears? Were you sorry? Were you sorry enough? Did you did you pray the right prayer? Do you hear what I'm I'm trying to say? I'm trying to say is that any input on mine, my part is not needed. Salvation is not something I command or create. Salvation is a work of the blessed Lord. And He comes where you are and does what you can when you are in that place. Being lost, helpless. Notice not only you think of Adam and Eve, but along comes Cain. And Cain brings the fruit of the garden. He brings the fruit of the earth. He brings that that he's made. It's something he created. Oh, you say, but it Took God to grow his garden. Of course it took God to grow his garden, but it was the fruit of his efforts. If anybody in here gardens, you know that you just don't throw seeds in the ground and walk off and get something out of it. Not good anyway. You've got to work it. You've got to tend to it. You've got to keep it. You've got to uh weed the thing and you've got to fertilize and you've got to do all these things so that it'll produce fruit. And Cain was doing all of that work, and and I I almost sense that Cain was sort of proud of himself when he brought that basket of uh of things he grew and laid them at the Lord's feet and said, Look what I've done Look at what I've done. Precious friend. If you're sitting here content with who you are, you need to go back to Calvary If you're sitting here smugly satisfied with what you have done in your religion and done as far as you are concerned, you know nothing of the grace of God. Grace says He did it all Jesus paid it all. It is all to him I owe. Oh listen, they escaped. They said, look, we'll water it down, we'll change it up, we'll mix it around, so that now there's no persecution. Oh, you see, I'm following Jesus Christ, but I'm also following the law. I've been circumcised. I'm following that that that pattern or formula that that supposedly makes me right with God. And so in doing so they take away Uh uh again, I believe that the the truth of the matter is we're living in a day where there is such a dilution of the gospel message some of God's little children are not even sure about what the true message is There's such a perversion of the gospel. There's a promotion of self. And if you listen to it, it's got a ring of humanism about it. It's got a ring of, well, I'm helping him. I'm doing my part. I'm doing something to get Beloved, listen, you and I can do nothing But come in our filth and our sin and say, God have mercy. And every sinner that goes to God seeking mercy finds mercy in the mighty Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh dear friend, the glory in the cross is to declare that only Christ and Him crucified, buried and risen is our hope. We're not standing on anything around here except the Lord Jesus and what he did on the cross. We're not going to heaven because we're Marinatha Baptist Church. Away with that. We're not going to heaven because we've been to the waters of baptism. We're not going to heaven because we go to church on Sunday. We're going to heaven because Christ died for our sins. And he was buried. And he rose again the third day and has saved us from our miserable lost estate by his wonderful, matchless grace. God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Number two, I believe it not only says I believe in the exclusive work of Christ But it also is a statement that means I have come to the end of all false boasting. I've come to the end of all false boasting. Another way of saying it is that the cross is where man's proud way dies. It's where man's proud way dies. Vance Abner said, we all got a birthday present from the devil, and it's called pride. And we all got it. We all have it. Notice what verse 13 says of Galatians chapter 6, for neither they themselves who are circumcised keep the law. but desire to have you circumcised, that they may glory in your flesh. Notice the falsehood that's perpetuated here. They they appear to keep the law, but the Bible says they're not keeping the law. In other words, their appearance takes place of what's actual. It looks good, so therefore it must be good. My grandmother years ago had a bowl of what looked like fruit on the dining room table. And I'm just a little boy and I'm looking at that and I'm thinking, man, one of them apples that sure tastes good right now. And there was nobody else in that dining room but me, and I thought, you know, she won't miss one little apple. And so when everybody else was off doing their thing, I went over there and I got that thing and I tried to bite it real fast and found out it was plastic. Anybody else have family with those plastic fruits on their table, you know? And I was so disappointed. That thing looked like the prettiest apple I'd ever seen in my life. I thought, surely this is going to be the tastiest thing I have ever enjoyed. And how disappointed I was. It looked good, but it wasn't no good. Do you know there's an emphasis? And it has nothing to do with circumcision in our day, but in our circles of churches, there is an emphasis on make it look good. It don't matter if it is good just so long as it looks good. And friend, I'm telling you, that's a false way. That's nothing but a demonstration of proud flesh Well, you know we gotta make everybody think everything's okay. We gotta appear to be well. You know what Paul said? He said they don't keep the law. They command you to keep the law, but they don't keep the law because no man can keep the law. They try to look good on the outside when in truth they are not at all. When appearance becomes more important than actual, we miss the boat. When what it looks like is more important to us than what it is like, we missed it. And what Paul is saying that the cross The cross is the end of that. It brings an end of all man's proud ways. Then notice not only the faults, but the flesh. He said Very clearly here, they desire to have you circumcised that they may glory in your flesh. You know what they wanted? They wanted somebody to follow their way. Hear me out, Christian. You be leery as somebody who's wanting to convince you of their way. There's only one way. And the Bible's away. And when somebody's got a private interpretation or some little handle on the truth, and they come sneaking along like a slimy serpent in the s in the weeds You need to be aware that they're trying to lead you down a false way. You know what was happening here? They wanted to say, hey, look, I got another one. I got another one. I got another one following me. Listen, I think that we have missed the boat in this thing of trying to bring people to Christ. by getting so enamored with how many we brought to Christ. We get so wound up in this thing of numbers. And and and you hear it? I mean I see it all the time. Post on Facebook, I led ten souls to Christ this week. Missionary sent me a letter. He's in a foreign country. He had he had some it was fifteen hundred professions of faith. 300 some baptisms, which is a lot better numbers than some, and his church grew by seven. There's something wrong. There's something wrong. I spoke with the dear missionary brother. And he said, preacher, but the pressure's so real. There's so much pressure. I said, brother, the pressure that you need to be worried about is not the pressure that comes down the line from a church or a pastor. It's the pressure that comes from above, from the Word of God. You've got to be faithful to Him, not them. You know what that is? That's man's boasting. That's man. Man wanting to say, Look what I've done. Look how I'm accomplishing. Look how they're following me. Paul said they want to glory in your flesh. They want to glory In their accomplishment. These Judaizers followed Paul. He won people to Jesus Christ, and then they would come in and they would say, Yeah, but Paul didn't tell you everything. Here's the rest of the story. Paul's good and all. He's fervent about souls, but he really doesn't know his Bible. Let me expound further and teach you the truth. And then they would be circumcised, they would begin to follow the Judaizers, and they'd report back to Jerusalem, hey, we converted the whole group. We got a group of people following us, and here's the sad thing. I'm sure that when word got back to Jerusalem, they were saying, you know what? They really got saved then. Why? Because it looked good. It's all about appearance. To glory in the cross is to come to the end of all boasting. Do you know what the cross does? It lays you low before a holy God. It exposes your wicked heart. It exposes the reality of your sin. It helps you to see that you're a convicted criminal in the eyes of a clean and holy God, and the only thing you can plead is for mercy. But oh when mercy comes, what a joy it is To have your sin forgiven. And you know what? Saved people don't boast about what they've done. They brag about what Jesus has done. You study the Revelation, they don't sing about their works, they don't sing about their religion, they sing about the lamb slain before the foundation of the world. They sing about the blood shed. They sing about the cross. They sing about what he's done. And church, that's what it's all about. It's about what he's done. It's the end of all boasting. You show me a boasting so-called believer, and I'll show you a person that's blighted in their soul. If they're proud of who they are and I'll tell you, I'm I am, I've told you this, I'll tell you again probably. I am Baptist by conviction. But I've met some Baptists that are not saved. And they boast things. As a boy, I used to hear them say this, I'm Baptist born and Baptist bred, and when I die, I'll be Baptist dead. Well, they need to get Baptist born again. Because they're dead already in their trespasses and sin. Listen, dear friend, there's nothing to boast about. When we get to heaven, there's not going to be one peacock strutting the streets of gold. There's not going to be one little banny rooster standing on a fence post crowing his goodness. Every head will be bowed, every heart will be humbled, every individual will say it's his mercy and his grace that has got me here. To God to be the glory and to him alone. Oh my, it's the end. When I realize the cross, it's there who paid my sin debt. It's there, every evil thing I've thought and done was nailed to Jesus Christ. I have nothing to boast of. In a sense, I'm responsible. His death's on my hands. His death's on your hands. We're responsible. It was our sin. The Bible says he became sin who knew no sin. It is upon him that our sins were cast. And thank God He in love and mercy died there. He in mercy there made a way for me to be saved. He made a way for me to be forgiven. He made a way for me. And listen No wonder Paul said. But God forbid, strong language really. It's an emphatic term. It has the idea of pounding your fist and saying, Never shall it be. In Bible College, we had a, he was actually the dean of our college, Dr. Bill Day, very large man, big man, big hands. And Dr. Day was teaching on this God forbid statement. And he was looking at all the God forbids of the scriptures. I can still see him, he was a U. S. Marshal. Carried his pistol to school. I thought, man, this must be some Bible college. 'Cause there sets the professor with that nine millimeter on his side and you looking at him. You know, and he was he didn't hide it, that's for sure. But he was teaching on this, and he was talking about, God forbid, how strong, how emphatic, how it's a denunciation of the possibility. Don't let the thought perish. And he raised his voice and said, God forbid. And he hit the podium he was at and he busted that thing into a million pieces. I never read God forbid without seeing that thing shattered there in the floor. That's what Paul meant. Perish the thought that we would glory in anything except the cross of Jesus Christ. It's the only boasting we have. It's the only thing to which we can cling to. If you can let me say it like this, it's the life preserver of the saint. It's our only salvation. Quickly. Let me say thirdly, and I'm through. When we say, God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. We're saying I believe in the exclusive work of Christ. We're saying this is the end of all false boasting. But we're also stating that we know something. Of the experience of becoming a new creature. There's been a fundamental shift in our heart. The Old Testament prophet said, can a Leopard change its spots? No. But a sinner can be made a new creature. Look at verse 15, will you? For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision but a new creature. And as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and mercy upon the Israel of God. Here's the reality. What avails? In other words, what profits or benefits? It's only as we know the reality of becoming a new creature that we can enjoy the work that God has done Man is dead in his trespasses and sins until God gives life. You can't self -resuscitate. You can't bring yourself to life. You can't will it or command it. I love that picture in the Old Testament where it describes God walking by the nation of Israel, lying in their own blood, and he said, Live. I love the picture in Ezekiel 37 when Ezekiel stands and looks over that valley of dry bones and he says, Can these bones live? Boy, God made them live, didn't he? God put life in those bones. The Bible says in Ephesians two that we were dead in our trespasses and sin. That's the way we come into this world. That's the way we live in this world. Until we hear that voice say, Live. And listen, my friend, it is only the grace of God that makes dead sinners come alive. The reality is that he makes us new creatures. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. You can't go on what you once were because you're not that anymore. You've been changed. Some of you sitting here had a dose of religion before you got the real salvation And you were church members and you might have been teachers or deacons. You could have been a host of things, but yet you had not been converted. But when God saved you, you became a new person. You became that new creation, that new creature. God made you brand new on the inside. Them old appetites you had, God began to change them. Those old desires you had, God began to rework them. I like how Paul describes it. Again, it's a fundamental shift. We oftentimes put too much emphasis on the outside. God gets there. He does that. And by the way, he's still working on all of us. If you've been saved any length of time, you've been under the sandpaper and the chisel and the hammer and the saw. And everything else that's working to cut away everything that's not like Jesus. And many of us sitting here today or standing here today, we're in the same, I mean we're in the workshop. He's a working on us And thank God that he is. He's bringing what's inside outside. But he's doing that. But listen, what I'm trying to say is that it is God that makes you the new creature. We often substitute education for transformation. Well, if we can just teach them better Well, I'm not against teaching. We need to be taught what the Bible says, but all the teaching in the world will not lead to a changed life. It takes the power of God working in us to make us what we ought to be. The reality is that circumcision availeth nothing. It's these outward external things do not make us yoke. There are people that think they're more spiritual There are people that think they are are super spiritual because of what they do or they don't do. And they got their list, and I've been around long enough that everybody's got their list. And oftentimes the lists don't match, and so that's why we got all these little camps in our churches. And you got this group over here that's a ten-point list, and the group over here is a twenty-point list. And we say, well, I'm more spiritual because I'm more spiritual. I'm here to tell you, friend, that does not avail. Here's what avails: Christ making you a new creature. The work of God's Holy Ghost. You want to make a bunch of Pharisees make them think that they've cleaned themselves up. I'm here to tell you, it's only God who can clean me up. It's the work of God's grace that'll make me what I am. And listen, if you and I serve the Lord, if there's any good in our life, if there's any Christ-likeness in our life, it's all his doing. We can take no credit. We can get no glory. We gotta say it's all the Lord. It's of the Lord. It's from the Lord. It's because of the Lord. And without the Lord, it wouldn't be true. Circumcision availeth nothing. All these external shows, that's all they are But when God starts making new creatures out of you, my my what a difference it is. And notice he talks about a rule, and I personally believe verse 16 is there because these Galatians had gotten rule crazy. They like rules. He said, okay, I'll give you a rule. Here's the rule. The rule is be a new creature. As many as walk according to this rule. He's already described it. Listen, he described it like this in Galatians 5, in verse 5. He says, For we through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by faith. For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision but faith which worketh by love. Friend, if you're content with your righteousness, that's all you've got. But we by faith are waiting for the blessed day When this vile body of flesh shall be laid aside, and this mortal shall take on immortality, and this corruption take on incorruption. What is that? That's a wonderful work of God's grace. And by faith we say, Hasten the day. That righteousness which is by faith. And notice it's a faith which worketh by love. Love has conquered the citadel of our hearts. We've not been won by reason. We've not been won by pressure. We've not been won by salesmanship. We've been conquered by divine love. We love him because he first loved us, and now a heart of devotion burns where there once was no fire. Now there's love for one who would die for the likes of us. And we say, Oh God, we love you and want to love you more. Why? Because you've saved us by your marvelous grace Galatians 2. 20 says, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. That's the new rule. Christ lives in me. Salvation is not you trying to become a Christian. It's God Almighty making you a Christian. It's Him doing something fundamental in your heart that makes you what you were not until He showed up. One more, Philippians 3:3. Here's what Paul said. This is the best definition of Christianity I know. For we are the circumcision which worship God in the Spirit. You know, we put a lot of emphasis sometimes on the wrong thing. You worship God in the Spirit, that means we're worshiping by the Spirit, we're worshiping Him as the Spirit. We're not worshiping some place. We're not w Worshiping uh some idol, we're not worshiping uh some image, we're worshiping the Lord We worship in the Spirit, and watch this, he goes on to say, and rejoice in Christ Jesus. Boy, if you rejoice in anything else, you miss the mark. There's a lot of people say, well, I'm a Baptist. They rejoice in being a Baptist. Or they rejoice in another denomination. They rejoice in something. Well, I rejoice because I someone told me once, they said I've prayed the sinner's prayer ten times. And I'm broken over that. You mean that tell me that you think somehow or another saying that again and again and again and again is going to make you any more saved? God hears that plea of mercy. And you may not have prayed a theologically accurate prayer, but if you prayed in your heart and cried out to God for that mercy of salvation. It was not the content of what you prayed, it was the ear in which it went. It was the one to whom you spoke. And listen, I when I think of that old thief, he's my favorite one in the Bible. I hope to see him first in heaven. Listen, after Jesus, when you see him, you know what? He didn't say uh you know the sinner's prayer, he didn't say a whole lot, he just said, Remember me. Remember me. He was pleaing. I'm lost. I need mercy. I'm dying because I deserve it. Will you remember me? And Jesus said, Today shalt thou be with me in paradise. Oh, thank God for a God who's merciful. It's with the heart man believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. We rejoice in Christ Jesus, and I like this, and have no confidence in the flesh. Do you know there's a party not saved? And you brought it to church with you this morning. And we don't have confidence in it. Because we know what it is. It's corrupt. It's the old Adamic nature. It's that sin nature. Little Sarah was talking about Jack, and she said, man, he's got a temper. I love this part of being a gr grandfather. I can say wonder where it comes from. Might be reaping what you sow, I don't know, sweetie. But how can an innocent He's not lived in the world. He just made his appearance. Where he's not been to school yet to learn to get a temper. You know where it came from? And here. That old heart is corrupt. And he'll need to be converted one day. He'll need to be saved and be changed and made a new creature and have no confidence in his flesh. You can take flesh and dress it and prepare it. and and make it look appealing and all of that, but yet it's still flesh. What we need is a work of God in the depths of our heart that fundamentally shifts who we are from being dead in trespasses in sin to being alive in God through Jesus Christ. It's a miracle. Sometimes we get accused of not believing in miracles because we do not believe in Charismania. But I'm here to tell you, I believe in miracles. When a dead person comes alive, when a lost person gets saved, when those that are die dead in their trespassing sin suddenly live in God through the Lord Jesus Christ, that's a miracle. That's a miracle of miracles. Brad, I think you got saved in your living room at home. Is that right? You got saved at home. And I'll tell you what, a miracle took place. Right there at that couch or wherever it was you got born again. That was a miracle. Amen. Here was a dead man who came alive. Here was a man heading to hell one minute and going to heaven the next. Here's a man that was lost in his trespasses and sin, who now is saved and forgiven. And listen, it's not because of who he is, it's because of what Jesus did. It's the work of Jesus Christ. This is the rule. We've experienced the new birth. Oh, my friend, this change in the heart is a work of God's grace, saving grace. Grace that would make a man say, God forbid, that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Dear friend, what's your testimony this morning? What do you glory in? What are you boasting in? Where's your hope? Where's your confidence? Where's your faith? In whom does it lie? Are you trusting him and him alone? Oh, that doesn't mean you'll be perfect. That doesn't mean your life will be sinless. There may be struggles. Some of these people we enjoy their hymns and are so blessed by went through deep, deep waters. But what it does mean is that you have trusted the exclusive work of Christ. You're not adding to it or taking from it. It does mean that you as a as a person who's believing on the Lord Jesus Christ have come to the end of all your false boasting. You're not putting one finger of pride on the pure work of grace. It means that you've experienced The reality of becoming a new creature. You know, I got saved when I was eight years old. I made a false profession when I was five. And I remember two very distinct things happening. When I made that false profession, I knew I wasn't saved. I didn't really understand all about it. But I remember being convicted over a lie I told. And I thought, I shouldn't have done that. And then I had this thought, why does it matter? I really didn't care. It was God showing me. And then I got saved And he wasn't at eight years of age, and I remember shortly after getting saved, and I was about to get in trouble, and to save from getting a ', I told a lie, and the minute I did the Holy Ghost said, Mm mm I'm eight years old. And I broke down and I said, you know what? I just lied to you. And I got a spanking. Two times worse, because I lied and did the thing I did. But what I'm trying to say is that something had shifted in me. Something had changed inside my little heart that no longer let me enjoy and live in sin like I once did Friend, if you're loving the hell that we live in in this world, then don't think that you're going to love heaven and his holiness. You've been deceived. You need to be born again. What's your testimony, friend? Can you say, I've got no confidence in the flesh. I'm rejoicing in Christ Jesus and worshiping God in the Spirit. If you're not saved today, let me urge you to be saved. To call on him? To cry out to him for mercy? We invite you to use the altar, but the truth is you don't need to come to an altar to be saved. You can be saved where you're sitting. You can be saved as you drive down the road. You can be saved in your home or the hospital. beds you might be listening to this broadcast from or the nursing home or wherever you may be confined. It may be, my friend, that right where you are, you just need to cry out for that mercy that's available in Jesus Christ and let him save you today. And dear Christian, oh, may the Lord help us to see Christ and Christ alone. And rejoice in him. Look away from yourself. The devil wants to keep you some tore up over what you did or didn't do. Just look to him. Just look to him. Lay your worries. Lay your fear. Lay your care. Lay it all at his feet and say, Lord, I'm trusting in you. And rest in the Lord. My, what a sweet place it is to put your old troubled head on the finished work of Jesus Christ. Trust him. Let's stand together. Father, have your way. There's a lost soul in this building. God please save them.