Romans chapter number eight and there are two verses I'd like to read in your hearing this evening. Romans chapter eight, verse number thirty one and thirty two The Bible says in Romans chapter 8 and verse number 31, what shall we then say to these things? And the things that he's referring to here are the things that have been previously stated, such as for whom he did foreknow. He also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called, and whom he called, them he also justified. And whom he justified, them he also glorified. By the way, you'll notice that every one of those things are spoken of in past tense He's saying it's already done. He's talking about that great work of salvation that Christ has wrought for you and I And he says, uh, God foreknew it, that just simply means that God knew beforehand who would be saved The foreknowledge of God is a marvelous thing to consider. When you stop and think about the fact that before you were ever born, God knew you. The Bible says that in John chapter 17, He prayed for us. He prayed for us before we ever came to this earth. Christ had already prayed for us. The Bible says, Paul told young Timothy, he said, The Lord knoweth them that are his And I believe that's all them. That'll ever be his. He knows who are all his. He knows them. Foreknowledge of God. The predestination, and keep it in context, please, in Romans chapter 8, because the predestination that's talking that is spoken of here is the fact that he is predetermined, predestined, that I be conformed to the image of his son. That he makes me and he makes you just like Jesus Christ. 1 John 3. 2 says, When we see him, we shall be like him. He's going to accomplish just what he said. Now look, you may not be looking at much right now, but I promise you one day God's going to finish the job. He's going to make perfect that what that he started so many years ago. Now again, he's talking about these things. What shall we say then to these things? The foreknowledge of God. predestination matter here of being conformed to the image of his son. And then he says, those whom he's predestined, he's also called them. That word means the summons them. He's called them. John chapter 6 says that we cannot come except the Father draw us. There must be a working of the Spirit of God in a person's heart before they ever get born again. Now I know people say, well, preacher, I found the Lord. Well, the truth is he's never been lost. But you and I have been. And if I got saved, it's because he came looking for me. I did not go looking for him. The parable of that shepherd who went looking for that lost lamb Ninety and nine he left safe in the fold, but that one little sheep he went looking for. If you've been saved any mo any time, any measure of time, you you'll look back and you say, you know, uh those turns and twists and And the way my life unfolded certainly had to be of God. God was working in me to bring me unto himself That calling. We've been called. And then he does something else. He said, Not only have I called you, but I have justified you. What shall we say to these things? He's called me, he's justified me, and that is a legal term, a term whereby God declares you righteous in his sight. So that you're no longer prosecutable by your sin. Because he's removed it away just as if you never sinned. The Bible says in Romans chapter 5, therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God. What a work this wonderful work of salvation is, that he would justify me. What shall we say to these things? What how what can we say against these things? And then he says, not only has he justified us, but he has glorified us. Do you know that simply speaks of what shall be done one day in heaven? But God speaks of it as if it's already been done? You know why that is? Because your salvation is so secure in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's as if you're already there. It is a salvation so secure. It's not dependent upon performance or people. It is settled eternally forever by the precious blood of Jesus Christ. And you're as good for heaven if you're saved as if you already were walking streets of gold. Years ago I was visiting with a dear friend, he's in heaven now. Brother Don Cameron and the man told us to go somewhere very clearly. And you know what I'm talking about He didn't like the fact we were knocking on his door and disturbing his evening, and so he very bluntly said, Go to Well, Brother Don turned around that witty, witty dear man. He turned around and he said, can't do it And I said, Don, let's just go. He said, Oh no. He's already told me where to go. I'm telling where I'm going. And so he said, Sir, I cannot go there because I am destined for heaven. He said, I got born again twenty -some years ago, and he said, I am as good for heaven if I was already there. Well, he didn't know how to respond to that one, buddy. He didn't have no more to say. But I'm telling you, if you're saved by the wonderful grace of God, you are as good for heaven as if you're already there. He's called you, He's justified you, He's glorified you. What shall we then say to these things? If God now get this please, if God be for us, who can be against us? Now you'll notice in your Bible the little word bee is italicized. That means the translators put it there for ease of reading or clarity of understanding. So if we read it like God said it, it would simply be this God for us. God for us. We talked about this morning God with us tonight. I want to concentrate on God for us. God for us. You see, the Bible makes it abundantly clear that the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ was a declaration that God for us God for us. You see, when Christ was born, 400 years had passed, and not a word had come out of heaven. It was as if God had nothing else to say for 400 years. When Malachi penned his prophecy and put the period at the last chapter and word The heavens went silent. And for 400 years there were no prophets. For 400 years there were no messages from heaven. 400 years it seemed as if God had silenced Himself. But then there's some stirring going on down in Bethlehem. There's a noise that you can hear, and it's the cry of a little baby put in a manger. And the cry of that little manger, the baby in that manger, broke the silence that had existed for 400 years. And do you know what that cry signified? It signified God for us. It signified God for us. It said very clearly that God's not forgot about us. It meant that God has not turned a deaf ear or a blind eye to humanity He has kept his grand promise, made way back yonder in the Garden of Eden, that the seed of the woman would come. And there God kept his promise, and there God said, I'm for you. God for us. You've got to remember something tonight, that the claims of the devil are wrong. God for us. You say, but preacher, don't you know that he climbed up on uh Mary's shoulder? Whispered in her ear, This is punishment. This is punishment Someone jokingly said to me some time ago, and I know they meant it as a joke, they said, what did you ever do to get called to pastor here? They go to church here, by the way. They were joking. We laughed together. God for us. See, the devil lies. He's the father of lies. That's what he does. And he called up listen. Don't you know that he said to Joseph, we know he did, simply because of the thinking in Joseph's mind, Joseph You're in a mess. That lady that you're engaged to, she's been unfaithful. You better put her away. Joseph, this whole thing is taking place. God must not like you very well. He's against you. Mary, you wouldn't be in this predicament If God's as good as he says he is, Mary, you wouldn't be facing the shame and reproach that you're now facing. If if God's really who he says he is, if God's really for us, but please hear me tonight. The claims of the devil are wrong. In spite of the claims of the devil, God for us. God's for us. Listen, dear friend, hear me tonight. Regardless of the circumstances of your life Please don't let your time here interpret a God who's eternal. Don't let the downfalls or the disappointments or the discouragements of the present moment dictate to you who God is. If Mary and Joseph in their circumstance had got all caught up in what was going on, they could have very clearly interpreted that as maybe God's not for us. Sometimes God for us doesn't look like what we think it should. Sometimes God for us means the misunderstanding of Mary Bearing a child she didn't ask for. Sometimes the the the uh God for us Looks like the very opposite because the circumstance say he's against us. I still think of Jacob down there in the promised land And getting word that one of his sons is being kept, his oldest son, down in Egypt, and now the youngest son is being summonsed. And they're going to starve to death if you don't meet the demands, and that dear old man probably put his head in his hands and said, All these things are against me Little did he know God for us. God was about to give him the grandest reunion he had ever experienced in all of his life He was about to be reunited with his oldest son, with his youngest son, and with his loved son Joseph. He was about to realize the best day that he's ever lived on this planet because God for us. By the way, Romans eight tells us in verse twenty-eight that all things work together for good. God for us God for us in spite of the of the claims of the devil. God for us in spite of the circumstances of life. Your circumstances might be quite sorry, but your God is still very good. People say, well preacher, why does you know, why do we get sick and why do people die? Why is there so much evil in the world? And why is there so much sorrow? And why so many tears? And why all of the horrible things that we see in life? I'll tell you why. One reason, sin. Sin is entered into this old world and and because of sin, deaths passed upon all men, and sin had consequences. Can you imagine a world that the world that Adam and Eve lived in before sin? I you know, I I don't believe that that that that this this curse that that we live under listen it it so radically altered everything that we know When Adam and Eve lived in the garden, there was no sickness, there was no death. The Bible says there were no thorns. There were none of the things that and and and if I understand my Bible right, that it was uh they probably didn't even sweat Remember what to curse? Sweat of the brow. Imagine that, you know. Can you can you imagine? Not having to earn your uh your keep of the sweat of your brow. They they that the the curse is not there. That place is a place of of beauty and perfection. Sin hasn't marred it There's no predator-prey relationship between the animals. None of that has has entered in. My preacher used to say, he said, I'll tell you what, he said, I believe it was such a wonderful place. Every banana had its own zipper. I don't know if that's true or not. But some of them aggravate and I got up the other morning to eat a banana and I fought with that thing and tried to get it open. And it was you know, some of them they're a little green. I they must just pick 'em green and ship 'em. And I finally got to aggravate, I took my pocket knife and I'd done a number on that banana. I got to it, but we had a fight trying to get it open. None of that was was happening in the garden. There was no curse there There was no curse there. I'm telling you that all you see in the world, the circumstances included, are a result of sin's curse and the effect of that upon humanity. Listen, it does not reflect. on our God who is good. The scripture declares, God for us. God for us, in spite of the claims of the devil, in spite of the circumstances of life. I want you to know the Lord Jesus Christ made it abundantly clear when he came to this earth, God for us. He made it so abundantly clear that, my friend, listen, when he hung on the cross and he died for your sin and he shed his precious blood. That he is for us. You see, it was for us. Those are two little words you ought to study in the Bible, because many times it says for us, he died for us. He died for us on the cross and for our sin. He was buried for us. He rose again for us. And he'll give eternal life to whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. Why? Because God for us. God for us. That little baby lying in the manger made a statement. And that statement, my friend, can never be erased. You say, Preacher, uh, you know, I I I just don't want to think about it. I I I I I understand there are people getting a place that I don't even want to celebrate Christmas this year. It's just too hard. The memories are too fresh. My heart's too broken. Etc. I don't want to celebrate, but please hear me. You can't erase something that God has eternally done. Jesus Christ came to the earth. And whether I recognize it or celebrate it or accept it or whatever I do with it, it does not change the fact. And the fact is that God is for us. We cannot change that, we cannot turn that back, we cannot uh ch uh change it or turn it around. The reality is, is that God for us? He says, If God be for us, who can be against us? The fact is, it does not matter what is against us, it does not matter what opposes us, it does not matter what happens to us because God for us He goes on to say, Who then shall weigh anything to God's elect? What charges can they bring? See, what I'm trying to say is that the greatest gift of all has already been given. And the greatest work that could ever be done has already been accomplished And the greatest thing that God could ever do for you, if you're saved by the grace of God, is to save you. Everything else is inconsequential. Everything else is minimal compared to the reality that you're saved. Think about the Apostle Paul saying these words: For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. They look at the Apostle Paul and say, Well, sir, if you preach the gospel, we'll kill you. Thank you. You'll just send me to heaven. Well, we're going to let you live. All right, thank you. For to me to live is Christ. What can you do to the man like that? Don't you know he made the devil wring his hands and say, What am I going to do with this one? If I let him live, it's Christ. If he dies, he's with Christ. It's just Christ either way. Because why? He understood God for us. He recognized the reality. And listen, dear friend, don't let the devil plunge you into a pity party. I I'm I'm thankful it worked out. I did I'll be honest with you. I was not too thankful last Lord's Day when I seen the weather. And uh you can ask my wife, when it snows, I'm like a caged animal. I walk from window to window to see what it's doing, and to see how I'm gonna do something about it to get out of this and to go down you know, I d I don't enjoy snow days too well. But the reality is, look for him, uh God I think God put this all together, so today the emphasis could be this. God with us, God for us. The choir this evening, the young people this morning has saturated our hearts and minds with the reality that it's just all about Jesus. That Jesus was born and Jesus died and Jesus rose again. And the greatest gift of all is Jesus. And the greatest thing of all is to know Jesus Christ as your personal Lord and Savior. That's the greatest thing in three worlds that you could ever experience. And when you begin to understand that God is for us Oh, this world shouldn't celebrate no bigger than God's people do. Really? They shouldn't get more excited than you get. They shouldn't have a greater time of enjoyment than you have. Why? Because God for us. That manger says so much that when Jesus was put in it It delivers a message that you and I cannot get away from, that God would look on our s our plot. He would look in our our situation and he would provide a redeemer. That he would see you and I in our sin and show us compassion. My Bible says, Dr. Hitchens quoted it tonight, John 3. 16, for God so loved the world. That's why Jesus came. His love was a and his coming was a coming of love. He came out of compassion for the lost. He came because he loved sinners like me and you. I don't know about you, but that that that's a a marvel to me that he had loved me. When we sing that old hymn, Jesus loves me, Jesus loves even me I have to sing it that way because it's a wonder to me that he loves me. And and and the foreknowledge of God, God knowing me and still loving me I can understand loving me and not knowing me, but knowing me and loving me is a whole new level. He knew every fault, he knew every failure. He knew every downfall. He knew every disappointment. He knew everything you would do from birth to death. And yet he loves you still. He knew every every step you would take, every decision you would make, every mess you would create, and yet he said, God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. And dear friend, he died on that cross for you, loving you, knowing you, and dear friend, according to the precious word of God to save you. From your sin. That great gift that was given on the cross of Calvary was not just a token gift. It wasn't just simply a memorial gift. It is a life-changing, life-altering gift. For to for to be in Christ, the Bible says if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. There is such a work of God done in a person's heart when they get born again that they can never be the same. Dear friend, I'm going to tell you tonight this Christianity that leaves you unchanged is not from God It's not in the book. You won't find it in the Bible. Everybody who gets saved in the Bible gets changed. Paul the persecutor becomes Paul the preacher. The the the people that once hated God now love him. The ones who were against Christ now are for Christ. There is a change that takes place in their heart. And I'm glad he's still changing lives and hearts today. He's able to step into the worst situations and make new creatures out of the unbelievable. You know the scripture is full of pictures. And it draws pictures of people. It draws pictures of what God does and what God's grace can do. You ever thought about Rahab? The Bible calls her Rahab the harlot. And before she met the Lord That was who she was. But the Lord changed her. You'll notice that she changed her he changed her direction And he changed her affection and he changed her association. He changed it all. She once was the enemy to those Israelites and now she's hiding them out because she she's on the same side. She once was an enemy of God, and now she's working with God's people and working for God's favor and for his glory. She was completely changed. And she was rescued and and redeemed from certain destruction when they came in to take the city. God kept his promise and marvelously preserved and protected her, even though her home was on the city wall. That just simply tells me that God's grace will do such a life-altering thing in my life that no matter what I once was, God's able to make me something brand new. He's able to give me a new that's have you ever thought about why Jesus told Nicodemus you must be born again And Nicodemus reasoned in his mind, how do you be born again when you're old? How can you be born after you've already been born? Well, Nicodemus was thinking of a physical birth, and Jesus was talking of a spiritual birth. And when Nicodemus got saved by the by the wonderful grace of God, which I believe he did, he began to understand that being born again, getting saved is It's so wonderful, it's like starting life over again because in a very real sense you are. In a very real sense what you were has been buried under the blood of Christ. And now you're a new person, a new creature. And all that you were, it pardon the bad English, but all that you were, you ain't. And all that you could not be apart from Christ, you now are. And all that you're going to be is not yet revealed, but hallelujah, one day it will be in heaven. Because it's going to be revealed just exactly what God has done in you. I watch these guys, I love to watch these guys go out and find junk. And uh these pickers, I guess they call them And they'll go in these barns and they'll find an old bicycle and that thing is looks like it's broken down and rusted and and and and some of the spokes are broken on the wheels and the thing looks horrible and they pay $500 for it. And I'm thinking, man, I'd take that to the junkyard, to the dump somewhere. And they get it out, and when they get it out, they're talking to each other and they say, Do you know what this is worth? We paid $500 for it, but this bicycle is worth $3,500. And they'll take it and maybe shine on it a little bit and fix it up. And I'll tell you something, dear friend, you know what I'm looking at I'm looking at some men and women that God went and bought out of the junkyard. And he cleaned us up, made us brand new, and I'll tell you a whole lot more valuable, dear friend. Than you could ever imagine. One day in heaven it will be revealed just exactly what you are in Jesus Christ. God for us. The message of the birth of Christ is very clear. God with us, God for us. God for us. Believe the Word of God. If you're not saved tonight, let me urge you to trust Jesus Christ. You see, going to church and being a good person and doing religious things will never get you in. You must be born again. It's an absolute necessity. It's not left up to chance. You must be. You must be, precious friend. You must be born again if you would see God's good heaven Yes, your sin has separated you from God. Yes, you're dead in your trespasses and sin. But Jesus is the answer. He's the answer for your sin. You say, What can I do with this load of sin? And what can I do with this burden of guilt? I'll tell you what you can do. You can bring it to the Lord Jesus Christ and leave it at the foot of the cross and be forgiven full and free. And dear brother and sister, saved friend, know this God for us. Through the twists and turns and the misunderstandings and the disappointments and the discouragements and all the deep valleys of life, know this, God for us. God for us, the fact that He died for my sin and took my sin away, whatever happens here, is in no comparison to what waits for me over yonder. God for us. God for us. Doesn't that make you want to love Him, serve Him, and follow Him all the days of our life? God for us. You stand with me, please. We're going to have the hymn of invitation