I hope you notice the cross in the middle. Made out of the red letters. Did you get that? Appreciate the emphasis this morning. And I want you to go with me to Matthew's gospel, Matthew chapter number one. And I'm going to read just a couple of verses here, beginning in verse number 22. Matthew chapter number one and verse number twenty-two says that now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son , and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. I want you to think about those three little words. You know the Lord has simplified the most important truths in the Word of God. In fact, it seems to me that the more important it is, the more simple he makes it, so that it is very clear. I want you to think with me about this Christmas account. This is the account of the birth of Christ, that it really can be summed up in three words. And those three words are God with us. That's Christmas. The reality is that God is with us. As you think about what we've heard already this morning, we saw and heard a lot of names. In fact, if all of the names of the Lord were used, we would be here till supper time probably. Because our Lord is a Lord of many names. It's not that He's many Lord, many Lords, but that He has many names because to describe Him requires a multitude of names to describe one so so amazing as he is. But the names that we were given today, of all those names, there's one name That all of these rest on. If this name be absent, all the other names have no meaning. If this name is not true, if this name does not apply, then all of the others are irrelevant, all of the others are actually impossible. And that is this name, Emmanuel, God with us. If if he be not God, then none of this is possible. If he is not Emmanuel, if he's just another baby, then the reality is, is that all of the things, Lord, Savior, Wonderful, Counselor Prince of peace. All of those have absolutely no meaning if he be not God. But aren't you glad this morning that the declaration of the Word of God is this? God with us. Let me say quickly this morning that that is the meaning of Christmas. You know, there's a lot of confusion sometimes about what Christmas really means. Sometimes people say, well, it means family. And by the way, all of these things are good things. They're things that we can enjoy. But Christmas is not about family. It's not about friends, though thank God for good friends. It's not about uh uh gifts and it's not about uh Christmas parties and it's not about all of the fun and all of the lights. All of that's good in its place. But that is not the meaning of Christmas. The meaning of Christmas, others might get sort of religious on you or spiritual and say, it's about a baby. Well, it's not about a baby. You say the meaning of Christmas, it's about a manger. You know, it's it's about that manger. Well, it's not about a manger Oh, uh it 's about angels. It must be about angels coming down and uh talking to the shepherds and telling them about Jesus being born in Bethlehem. And quite frankly, it's not about angels either. It's not about all of the heavenly hosts that gathered in the heavens and began to sing Glory to God It's not about all of uh of those things. You know what Christmas is? The meaning of Christmas is God with us. That's the meaning of Christmas. That God has come as man among men. This celebration has no significance if that baby's just another human baby. As special as babies are. You know, as many of you know, we now have a grandson, and I used to say this all the time, you know, babies are just babies. They all look alike, the little round heads, bald headed, no teeth, you know. And they're just babies. My wife said to me the other day, she said, Do you think that about Jack? I said, absolutely not He's a different baby. I mean he's unique among babies, right? And all the grandparents said, Amen, you know what I'm talking about. But what I'm trying to say is this, is that Jesus was not just another baby. Jesus Christ was God with us. That baby that was laid in the manger in Bethlehem was the Almighty God wrapped in human flesh. That little baby that that that cooed and giggled and gurgled and made all the noises that babies make was the very God who spoke and said, Let there be light. And there was light. That little baby that probably with his little pudgy hands, uh, you know, uh Touched his mother's face and she held them and looked at them. That very hand, Isaiah said, measures the waters of the earth in the hollow of his hand. That little baby that lay in that manger had already been to this earth on multiple occasions. That little baby had walked with Adam and Eve in the garden. That little baby had appeared to Joshua of old. That little baby had met Abraham as they were making their way down to Sodom and Gomorrah. But yet here he is in a manger in Bethlehem. God with us. The meaning of Christmas is so critical that we understand that that that this is not just about the birth of a baby and it's not just about The coming of one to Bethlehem's manger. It is about God coming down among men as a man, God with us. We call that the incarnation. It is a big word, but the literal meaning is, is that God took flesh upon himself and he began to live among us That's the meaning of Christmas. Let me say quickly, there's also a miracle involved. I'll have to confess, one of my favorite uh little stories about Christmas is the miracle when all the animals talk. Did you ever read that little book? Some of you don't know what I'm talking about. But it's a little book my mama used to read me and she would it and on Christmas uh on on Christmas night the all of the animals were allowed to talk and I thought, wouldn't that be cool? You know, I love animals. And I I thought, you know, I go to milk the cows in the morning, wouldn't it be something if one of those Big Cows look around and says, Good morning, Jamie. How are you this morning? I probably had a heart attack, but And and and you know, it's a little fairy tale book about these animals and how they can all talk and they talk and tell the story of Christmas. Well, there were miracles that took place at the birth of Jesus Christ. The very miracle of his conception that a virgin shall conceive and be with child. That's a miracle. The miracle that the angels appeared, the star shining in the heavens. By the way, some would say, well that's a that was a star, we know its name and and we know what planet it is But there's a passage of scripture that really messes that up because it says it was his star. And I don't believe he shares his star with anybody else's star. And I believe when he said it was his star, it was a special Thing put in the heaven just for his birth. His star. What a miracle. Don't you know it was a miracle for the shepherds to have communication with the angels? I read it this morning again in Luke 2, where the angels came down and said, Behold, we bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. And it says they were sore afraid. And I read that and I feel like saying, You reckon they were afraid? Yeah, they were afraid. This was something that never happened before to them. And here it was a miracle. These angels appeared. And then the Bible says Heavenly hosts filled the air, the skies above, just erupted with angel song about the birth of Jesus Christ. Man, what a miracle! There were all kinds of miracles around the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. But I want to say this: the greatest miracle of all is this: God with us. That's the miracle. Here's how John put it. John chapter 1 verse 14 says, And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. You want to talk about a miracle. Here is the miracle of all miracles, one that blows our minds when we try to really think about it: that God Himself became a man. And yet, as a man, he never ceased to be God. What a miracle I mean, you talk about something that boggles the imagination that God would become one of us. Wonder of wonders it is that God would become one of us. Philippians says that he took upon himself the form of a servant, the Lord Jesus, of all the things that he could be, and of all the things that he could become in all the ways that he could communicate to us, he became a man and he lived as a man. He was so much man that he would grow weary when he walked the roads of Jerusalem. He was so much man that he would get thirsty and sit down in Samaria at a well, hungry and thirsty, waiting on his disciples to go into town and get some food. He was so much man that when he prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane, he sweated, as it were, great drops of blood. He was so much man that he cried from the cross of Calvary as he hung there dying, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? So much man. But yet at the same time, in that same body that God had prepared for him was such a unique combination that he was yet still God. He was so much God that he could touch a blind man's eyes and make him see. He was so much God that he could go to a tomb and call a man's name and bring him out of the grave alive. That's how much God he was. He was so much God that that he could take five little loaves and two little fish and feed five thousand people. That's how much God he was He was so much God that when he died on the cross of Calvary, he became the final sacrifice for the sins of the whole world. He was God 's perfect Lamb, God's perfect man. And my dear friend, he was so much God that you could not keep him in the grave. Because once he was crucified, once he was dead, once he was buried, but thank God he arose and he lives forevermore. That's how much God he is. Now you say, preacher, that's hard for me to swallow. Well, I want you to remember something. That if you had a God you could explain, you don't have a God. If you have a God that you can define clearly and put him in your little box and say, this is where he fits, he immediately ceases to be God. God with us. It is the meaning of Christmas, and it is the miracle of Christmas. The miracle of miracles that God would become man and yet still be God. But then there's one final thing that I want to share with you this morning, and that is the message of Christmas. What is the message? Well, the message is God became one of us. God in Christ became a man for a purpose. Luke chapter 19 and verse number 10 says that the Son of Man, for the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. See, there was no other way, there was no other way for us to have a Savior except God provide one. There had to be one. Listen, man for many years, thousands of years, had taken and slain lambs and shed their blood and offered them up to God, and the best that could do was cover sin for a time. But sin had to have a final reckoning. There had to be an answer. There had to be something that would settle this thing eternally. And my Bible says that when John the Baptist was baptizing on the River Jordan, and the Lord Jesus being about 30 years of age, Would approach John for the baptism that he was administering, would make this statement: Behold, the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. He's not come to cover it up because this is not temporary. He has come to take it away because what he does is all of eternal. It's an eternal work of God. We rejoice today because God became man, and as man, he became our substitute. He, the substitutionary. Lamb of God. He took my place. He became my substitute. He became that one who said, I'll take the wrath of God for you. Many years ago I got in trouble and I grew uh I didn't grow up in the days of timeout I grew up in the days of war out. And so I was I'd earned something. I'd earned it really well too, and I'm not going to tell you what it was. And my brother loved me. My brother still loves me. I don't know why he loves me so much, but I I've got a good big brother. And my big brother, he he told my dad, he said, Now don't whip that boy for that. And I think he probably felt guilty because he's the one that taught me to do it, and that's why I did it. But anyway, he said, if you're gonna whip somebody, whip me. He's a grown man at that time. I don't know how that transpired. He told me to leave the house and go down the barn and he'd reckon with me later. So uh whether he got a whipping or not, I don't know, but he did take my place I know this, I didn't get one. And I clipped my heels together and said, Hallelujah, that's one I'm not getting. I got lots more. But I didn't get that one. And what I'm trying to say is this Is that the Lord Jesus Christ willingly came to this earth and said, I'll take his sin. And I'll take your sin and her sin. In fact, he said, I'll take the sins of the whole world. And our Lord Jesus became the substitutionary sacrifice, the very Lamb of God. God with us. Not only did he he die a substitutionary death, but he lived an absolutely perfect life. See, he was God. And because he was God, that's why his death means something. That's why his sacrifice accounts for something, is because he was not a sinner. He was tempted in all points, like as we are, yet he was without sin. He was not, listen, you and I sin because it's in our nature. It's it's something we we know to do. None of you had to go to school to learn how to sin. Now, probably a lot of us sinned while we were at school, but we didn't go to school to learn to sin. The reality is you knew how to do it long before you ever got there because you got an old sin nature. And I've got an old sin nature And I got it from my parents, and my parents got it from their parents, and so on. The Bible says that this sin passed upon all men through one man, Adam. And Adam started this progression, and so that leaves us all in the same boat. We're all sinners. And yet the Lord Jesus Christ would be born in such a way that coursing through his veins was not the fallen blood of Adam. It was the perfect blood of the God of heaven. His blood was different than anybody else's blood. I heard a very foolish statement some time ago. They said, it don't matter what he what happened to the blood of Christ. He he shed it, he died. You know, it it it's and here's what the man said. I don't know why he said it, but he said it was just like any other blood Well, I've got news for you, friend, not according to our Bible. According to our precious Bible, the Word of God, the living truth, the blood of Jesus Christ was like no other. He had no sin nature coursing through his veins. He was not a fallen Adam's race. He was very God, the very God. And and listen, the blood that he shed there was that perfect blood because it came from a perfect lamb, a man who lived a perfect life and died the substitutionary death. And then hallelujah, he rose the victorious. Over the grave, he's alive, he's well. The message of Christmas is this God is with us. God is with us. We've not been forgotten. We've not been left alone. We've not, listen, God did not step over man when he fell in the Garden of Eden and say, I'm done with you. I'll move on. God's not finished with you. You may be sitting here and finished with God, but God ain't finished with you. You may be sitting here thinking, look, this God stuff ain't for me. I'll tell you what, he is for you. You you say, preacher, I that that just I cannot comprehend how God would become man. Some of you remember this name, Paul Harvey. Remember that old uh radio fella? And uh he'd do that that program called The Rest of the Story. Man, I remember hearing it, it played on our radio station at about 5 15 every morning, and when we'd be milking cows, I'd hear that And now for the rest of the story. And Paul Harvey would begin, well he told a story about a man who just could not comprehend the the the incarnation. He he could not believe how God would become a man. He just couldn't get it. And he was such a principled man that he said this He said, I'll not go on pretending like it's true. I have rejected that. I don't believe that. I just can't understand that. And so when his wife wanted to go to a special Christmas Eve service He said, No, I'm not going to go. He said, I 'm going to stay here. You take the children and go. So his wife took the children and away they went to the uh Christmas program at their little local church And as he sat down to read his newspaper, he heard this thud against the big picture window on the front of the house. He thought at first that somebody was throwing snowballs at the window He got up to investigate, and when he looked out the window, he noticed these little birds flying against the window and hitting the window and falling down. He realized that it had started snowing and trying to escape that storm, those little birds saw that lighted open window and they were trying to fly through, but it was it was to their demise. So we quickly shut out the light and he remembered a uh a little stable barn that he had where uh his children had kept their pony and so He went out to that barn and opened those big barn doors and turned the light on and tried to coax them on the inside, but they still wouldn't come. He went in the house and got bread and he put a little trail of breadcrumbs, thinking those little birds will follow those breadcrumbs and go inside and find shelter from that storm. He tried to shoe them, and you know you can't shoe birds. He said they went one way and that way and up and down. They went everywhere but into the barn. He said he grew so frustrated that he suddenly he stopped and he said, if I could just be a bird. If I could just communicate to them, I'm not here to hurt you. I want to help you get in this barn where you can be warm. If somehow I could just become a bird and and speak their language and say, hey There's safety over here in this warm lit barn. He said at that moment At that moment, the church bells began to ring. Some of you are old enough on Christmas Day, the old churches would ring. They'd play a hymn on their church bells. And you know what hymn they played? They played, O come, all ye faithful. Do you know what one of the lines of that beautiful hymn says? One of the stanzas of that beautiful hymn says, Word of the Father, now in flesh appearing. He said it was like a lightning flash of revelation. Here he was, a man wanting to become a bird to save those birds from demise. And just like that, he said, God became a man to save me from my sin. He said he fell to his knees in the snow and there cried out to the Lord Jesus. Now friend, I'm saying to you this this this morning that the message of Christmas is this God with us. God has become a man to save us. God has become a man. Look, the storm of sin is raging. And many, if they were honest, would say that they know the consequences of that dire storm. They know the damage that that storm can bring to their lives. You know, we've had high winds here lately, and boy, I'll tell you the when that wind blows, trees fall, and there's usually all kinds of damage There's damage that sin brings. And the ultimate damage that sin brings is that it separates us from God. It cuts us off from Him I'm born dead in my trespasses and sin. I'm born alienated from God. There must be something that can bridge the gap that can make a way. He's God and I'm man. How can we ever come to some sort of reconciliation? Here's how, when God became man in Jesus Christ. And as the Son of God died on the cross of Calvary, being man, being God, he took man in one hand and God in the other, and forever brought us together and reconciled us unto God by Himself. And dear friend, he did that for you and I. That's the message of Christmas. That's the meaning and miracle of Christmas. God is with us. And listen, if you're saved, and that means if you have ever asked Jesus Christ to be your Savior, you've been born again from above. You've put your faith in what Christ did for you on the cross. You know, salvation is nothing of man and all of God. It's not your work, it's not my work. I'm not trying to be saved. I am saved because what he did, not what I've done But there came a point where I realized I need a Savior. And the Spirit of God drew me and worked in my heart. And I called upon him, and he saved me by his wonderful grace. If that's true of you this morning, you can say emphatically, God with us. God's with me. You say, preacher, I'm sick this Christmas. I'm facing maybe a a a terminal illness this Christmas. I've just buried a loved one. And it's going to be different this year. My situation is hard and my circumstances are difficult, but can I just say these three words? And they're more than words. They're the truth of the Bible. God with us. God's with you in that trial. He's with you in that bereavement. He's with you in that sickness. He's with you in that difficulty. Thank God He's with us. The reality of this thing is that God is always with us, and one glad day we'll be with God because God has made a way for us to be with Him. Because God came to be with us. Like old Squire Parsons wrote many years ago, when I could not come to where he was, he came to me. He came to me, he said. He came to me. There was a gulf that separated. I remember he sung that for the very first time. I was a little boy. He was a member of our home church and he was home for Christmas. And he sung that as a Christmas song, and it is a Christmas song, because he did come to me. He came. I couldn't go to where he was. My sin separates me. My unrighteousness stops me. I cannot get to God. But I'm glad where I couldn't go, he did. He, the perfect God, came down and paid the sin price. Paid for my soul and saved me and forgave me and bridged the gap, made a way for me to cross. Thank God for the gift of the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, God with us. And my precious friend, if you're here today and you're not saved, you're in a good place. It may be a strange place to you at the moment, but it's a good place. Because it's a place where you hear that Jesus saves. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have eternal life. Christ died for your sin according to the scripture. He was buried and he rose again the third day according to the scripture. And whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You don't have to join Marinatha Baptist Church and go to heaven. You don't have to get in the waters of baptism to go to heaven. You don't have to join a particular denomination to go to heaven. I'll tell you what, to go to heaven, you have to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the only way. There is no other way. Jesus said it so plainly. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And no man cometh unto the Father but by me. As our brother started this program, he quoted out of the book of Philippians, he's been given a name. That's above all other names. His name is a name that stands above all other names. Why? The Bible says that there's no other name given among men whereby we must be saved. There's no other name that'll save you. There's no other name that can save you. For there's only one Savior, and His name is Jesus Christ. He's what Christmas is about, God with us. And my dear friend, if you don't know him this morning, I highly recommend him You know, I heard a fella say something the other day. He said, you know, we're all just walking each other home. So that's all we're doing. We're on a journey from here to there. And the there, the there is eternity. And my dear friend, if you're not saved, there's an eternity awaiting. You will live forever. You will live forever. You know, and it's strange when you get older there's a part of you that don't age. I wished all the other parts did that. But there's a part of you that's ageless. That soul, that eternal part of you, it's ageless. It's an eternal part. It's going to live forever. And a thinking man, a woman, would acknowledge the reality that, yes, there's something in me that will live forever. I will live forever. But the question is not, will I live forever? Because every person will live forever. The question is, where will you live forever? And our Bible gives us two destinations. Only two. Either in heaven above because you've been saved by the Lord Jesus Christ, or in hell below. The reality is that you'll live forever in hell just as well as you'll live forever in heaven. And and the the beauty, I guess, if you will, or the the the joy of Christmas Is that God made a way for man to go to heaven, not go to hell? That God made a way that we could live forever with him. I love what the angel said. Behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. That's pretty simple, isn't it? This is good news. It has great joy, and it's for everybody. So go tell it. Go tell it. Go go spread that good news. And the good news is if you're lost, you don't have to stay that way. You can be born again. Oh friend, Christmas has such a special meaning. God with us God with us, what what powerful three little words when you put them together as we consider what we're celebrating and why. If you're not saved today, I urge you to get saved. I urge you to call upon the Lord Jesus. You know, it's not the posture of your body. Someone says, Well, I have to kneel. It's not about kneeling, it's not about weeping, it's not about it's not even about the words you pray. With the heart man believeth under righteousness. With the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. It's that turning in your heart from your sinfulness, from your trust in self, from your rejection of Christ. To receive the Lord. And John 1 12 says, But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. I know somebody might be thinking, Well, I I'd get saved, but I can't live it Well get in line with the rest of us. We can't either. But it's Christ in you that's the hope of glory. It's the fact that Christ lives in you, makes makes everything brand new. Oh dear friend, if you have never trusted the Lord Jesus Christ, turn to him today. Turn to him today. You can do it right where you're sitting. You can cry out to him. Right where you are, you can call upon the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved. The place is not important. The fact is that you do it. Trust the Lord Jesus Christ before it's eternally too late. And every saved friend, brother, sister, remember this. God's with us. John Wesley, that great preacher, lay dying, and his favorite psalm was Psalm 46. And it is the God with us psalm. And as that psalm was was read at his at his death, he had not spoken for some time, and he rallied there kind of towards the end. And and he said, when they got to that last verse, God is with us, he said, read that again. And they read it again. He said, best of all. He joined in with them. Best of all, God is with us. Best of all, when you think about Christmas, think about God's with us. When you think about Christ coming, remember God's with us. Through every storm and through every trial and through every difficulty and through every hardship and through every everything you face, God with us. What a difference it makes. To know him as your personal Savior. I'm going to have Brother Dow come and we're going to sing a hymn of invitation. If you need to pray,