We would be in trouble if he did, wouldn't we? You know what that's called? It's called mercy. And I'm grateful we serve a merciful God. I want you to open your Bibles again, please, to the book of Galatians, chapter number 6, and verse number 14. Galatians chapter 6 and verse number 14. And before I read the text, I want to remind you that we're trying to, and coming near the end of, putting in the foundation for the year. It has been in my heart in these days to preach certain texts that laid the groundwork for where I believed the Lord would have us to go this year. We started out by looking at a principle. And the principle is this: do all to the glory of God. Now that's a principle, if you'll observe it, you'll never go wrong. If you do all to the glory of God. And then we looked at a prayer, and that prayer was, Unite my heart to fear thy name. And boy, that's a prayer we need to be praying on a daily basis. Then we talked about the practice, something we need to practice. And of some, have compassion, making a difference. And others saved with fear, pulling them out of the fire. That's a practice. That's something we need to be doing. You're left here for a reason. And that reason is not just to enjoy life. God gives us richly, he said, all things to enjoy, but he's got a purpose for you and I, something we need to do. We need to be having compassion and pulling others out of the fire. And then we talked about a promise. I believe it was on the last Lord's Day. And that promise is low. I am with you always. And then we looked at the power in the evening service, but ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. Well, we need God's power, don't we? You can't do what God's called you to do without power outside of yourself. You've got to have God's power on your life. And then we looked on Wednesday night, the pause. And the Bible says there in the Psalm, Psalm 37, rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. I'm glad there's a pause that God allows us to have from time to time. That we can rest in the Lord. Now this morning I'm going to give you the word and then we'll stand together and read the text. But I want to look this morning at a prohibition. Something God forbids. He prohibits this. And I pray the Lord will help us and speak to us. Would you stand with me if you found your place in Galatians 6 and 14? Look what the Bible says very clearly here. But God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Father, help us just now. Lord, both the preacher and the hearer need help from above. So Father, would you help us? I pray you'd hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up Jesus as he ought to be. Father, thank you for the songs that we've already sung that helped us do just that. I thank you for such a savior. Lord, I join with the hymn writer and say, Hallelujah, what a savior. I praise your holy name this morning. And Lord, would you inspect our hearts? Would you speak to us like only you can? Lord, if there be a lost soul among us, would you deal with them and bring them to Christ? And Lord, would you just do for us what we can't do for ourselves? And Father, for all that you do, we'll be careful to bow our unworthy heads and give you all the glory. For we ask these things in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. Now I want you to notice again the text, and I want to magnify these words, but God forbid that I should glory. Save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now remember, that word glory means to boast. We might use the word that's probably more familiar to us, and that would be the word to brag And uh one old writer said this, he said, every bird sings its song. You know what that means? That means everybody boasts about something. There's a bit of bragging in all of us, a tendency in that way. Some brag about their wealth, and how many of you know you can brag without words? You know that? It's called a haughty look. Isn't it interesting that one of the characteristics of the last days is that men shall be boasters? Boasters. They'll be braggars. They'll brag about who they are, brag about all these other. And and you know there's no end. Think about it. Men brag about their wealth. They may brag about their fame. They brag about their strength. How many of you when you were little maybe had this conversation? I remember where we were on the bus when me and a bunch of boys in the neighborhood had this discussion. My daddy's stronger than your daddy. You ever had that? Man, we got we come to blows on that bus over whose daddy could whip the other fella's daddy Man, we were and you talk about telling lies, you know, we're telling lies up one, you know, I I said we were driving by the farm, I said, my dad can carry a full-grown Holstein cow. Well that's a lie. My daddy'd have whipped me for no I mean to no end if he had heard me say it. But you know what we were doing? We were bragging. We were bragging. It's in the heart of man to boast. Like it's in the heart of a bird to sing, it's in the heart of a man to boast. Man's going to boast about something. He's going to boast about his position, or he's going to boast about his title. Do you know nearly everything imaginable has been boasted about or bragged about by man? There was a practice in years gone by where in Sunday school notable traits were recognized with pens. So you might get a pen for being faithful Or you might get a pen for being um kind. Or you might get a pen for being generous. Or there are all sorts of things that they recognized. And I read the story of a man who got a pen for being humble. And then he wore it to church and they took it away from him because he was proud of being humble. Well here's the truth. There's just about everything under the sun you can make it a point of boasting. Paul had things he could boast about. Look at them over here in Philippians 3. Just flip over there a couple Pages. Philippians chapter three. Paul's trying to make a point here with these believers, and He says in verse number four of Philippians 3, though I might also have confidence in the flesh, now he's already told us he has no confidence in the flesh. But he said, I very well could. I I I could boast about this. Now he's not, but he's saying, I could boast. What about? He said, If any man if any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I mor, circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin The Hebrew of the Hebrews, as touched in the law of Pharisee, concerning zeal persecuting the church, touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. Those were things that meant something among the people he moved in. When they heard those things, they thought You're some kind of fella. I mean, you've got something that you can boast about. You've got something that you can say, hey, uh look at me and look at who I am and what I've done These Galatian believers were subject to that. I didn't read it, but if you'll go back in Galatians chapter number six and verse number 13 Look what it says. He's talking about these Judaizers who had come among them and were urging them to keep portions of the law and to follow the Old Testament teachings, and he says in verse 13, for neither they themselves who were circumcised keep the law. But desire to have you circumcised that they may glory in your flesh. You know what he said? They just want to use you for a medal or a trophy that they can brag about. We got another one. We got another one And Paul says very clearly to them, to the Judaizers, to the Galatian believers, and to every one of us here this morning, God forbid. That I should glory. Save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. I want you to notice three things quickly this morning. Number one, the prohibition. He says, God forbid. Now, you need to understand something. The language that is used here is strong and stern How many of you know that tone communicates? You ever been told, now stop that? And then stop that. Little different, isn't it? Communicate. And Paul's using a very strong tone. He's very using very strong language. He's saying, God forbid it. Someone said it's as if as he slammed his hand and said, Stop, right there. We were in Bible college, and Dr. Bill Day was one of our teachers. He was a student of the Bible. He had a library that every young preacher envied. He had a hobby that made some of us boys jealous. He swapped pocket knives, and he had an endless array of high-quality pocket knives. And man, you you just couldn't trade the average knife with him. You you had to really dig deep and get your good stuff if you wanted something he had. Dr. Day, I I can still see him. He was a U. S. Marshal and served in that capacity too. I see him sit. He had to sit on a stool. His kidneys were bad. His health was failing. And he would have to sit there teaching us, and I can still see him sitting there, his necktie pulled sideways, his shirt, top collar undone, his nine millimeter pistol turned, and I often wondered, man, that thing don't turn any further Because one of us boys here on the front row is going to be in trouble. And and he had lost part of his fingers in in an explosion. He was a large, a very large man, tall and big, and he had hands that were as big as the podium that he sat behind. And he was teaching through the book of Galatians, and he came to this verse. And he tried to emphasize how stern Paul was being. And when he read it, he read it like Paul would have said it had Paul been present in body. And with that loud, deep voice that he had, he said, God forbid, and he smacked the podium like that and busted it into a million pieces Every young preacher sat up. I'll tell you, there was there was no talking back to Dr. Day. Everybody was half scared to death of him But I'll never forget the impression that made on my heart. Paul meant business when he used these two words. He was being serious and very stern. Not only that, you say, what does it mean? What does this phrase, God forbid, mean? It means perish the thought. Banish it from your mind. Don't even entertain the idea of glorying except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. I'll tell you what that conveys. This is serious business. Boasting Is something that God takes very, very seriously. If you don't believe it, read in the New Testament about Herod When he bragged about his greatness. You remember what God did to him? He killed him, eat him up with worms. He dropped dead on the spot. And he was boasting. Nebuchadnezzar looked over that great Babylon and looked and said, Isn't this the great Babylon that I've built? Look at all these things that I have done, and God took his sanity. Just like that. God took his mind. And and and he he acted like an animal. Until God allowed his senses to come back. You know what we learn about boasting? We learn about boasting that we don't have anything to boast about. That's why God prohibits it. He says, God forbid, don't even think about it. Perish the thought. Put it away from you. Don't ever boast about anything save the cross. Now look at the point. I pointed out the prohibition. I want you to see the point of the text. And here's what Paul says, that I should glory. Now, I've already said it, but I want to emphasize it: the tendency of all mankind is to boast. We're often proud of things that we had no hand in. We're proud of things. Now just think about it. Think about it. Someone boasts in their beauty. Do you realize that God made you to look like you did or do? It's the God of heaven that made us who we are. I remember reading the story of a young lady who later went to the mission field and she Despise the color of her eyes. She wanted a different color eye until she got on the mission field and realized that God put her among a people That had the same color of eye, and that one fact saved her life on an occasion because she couldn't be distinguished between the people that she ministered to. She wasn't noted to be a foreigner because of the color of her eyes. That's what they were checking for. What's the color of your eyes? Know this, everything you've got, whether it be your appearance or your possession. is all from the hand of Almighty God. The tendency of man is to boast. But then the treachery, and I think Paul's getting to that here And emphasizing that, the treachery of boasting is when it goes over into spiritual things. When we boast about spiritual things. I've told you before, and I feel like Dr. B. R. Lakin. I'll tell you what he said in a moment, but I am a Baptist by conviction. It did not come easy, nor did it come just casually. I didn't inherit. Everything I believed has been challenged and confronted, and I came out on the other side thoroughly convinced that the nearest thing to a New Testament church Are the Baptist distinctives found in the Word of God? But I'll say this I've got nothing to boast about being a Baptist. There's a lot of boasting about that. There's a lot of boasting. Well, I'm a Baptist. Dr. B. R. Lakin, someone said, Dr. Lakin, what would you be if you weren't a Baptist? He said, ashamed of myself. And I sort of feel that way after knowing what the Bible teaches. But my point is this is that we've got no room to boast. Boasting in spiritual things is near treason. Some boast in their standards. And among our circles, you understand this? People are divided by the standards high or low. And I believe we ought to have standards that are as high as the Word of God. Don't go outside of the Word of God. Build on the principles of the Word of God. But listen, my friend, if you boast in your standard, you're boasting in the wrong thing. A lot of times we dismiss people. Because they don't measure up to our thinking. That's treachery. We can get proud of that thing. Well, I don't, I don't, I don't. Okay, well Lord bless you. But you know a lot of times if all you've got's an I don't, let me ask you, what do you do? Where's the I do? We often boast of our theological persuasions. I don't know who said it. Somebody said it in the last few weeks. And for whatever reason the Lord's not letting me remember who said it. Somebody said it in this building, I think on a prayer meeting night. It was either a prayer request or it was in their prayer. They they were talking about us getting tribal. And that I thought, what are they talking about? I just pondered that. I've rolled that in my head a lot. Tribal. What do you mean by being tribal? I'll tell you what they mean. A lot of times we can get proud of what God's doing in our hearts and in our church, and we can forget about everybody else. We say things like, well, I'm not worried about them. The Lord's blessing me Remember something, the work of God is the work of God. It's not the work of man. And I'm going to tell you something. We want God's work to flourish wherever God's work is done. We can both so we can both say, oh, yeah, and church, we've got to be careful about this. My heart's really exercised over this thing. If God does something favorable and kind to you, it's no reason for you to jump up on your fence post and crow like a little rooster, because it ain't got nothing to do with you. It's God's singular kindness shown in your direction. God forbid that I should glory. Oh, we can boast of our positions and our placements and such. And on and on we could go. Let me remind you of a verse, and I want everybody to see it. Will you go over to 1 Corinthians 4 real quick? And this ought to be a death blow to all boasting. First Corinthians chapter four in verse number seven. Think about this question For who maketh thee to differ from another? Who makes you different? And what hast thou that thou didst not receive? Remember, none of us are manufacturers. We're all stewards. You don't you're not the creator You don't generate your wealth. You don't generate your appearance. You don't generate the blessings of God. And he says, now if thou didst receive it, why dost thou glory? As if thou hadst not received it. In other words, he said, why are you boasting about something that somebody had to give you? Somebody had to put in your hand. Somebody had to put a smile of favor in your direction. Do you understand? Paul is reminding us here, again, these Corinthians, they were proud of who they followed. They were proud of this, that, and the other. And it was a mark of their carnality. It was a s a sign that they were not spiritual people. They were boasting about all these things. Well, I follow Paul and I follow Apollos. I'm a follower of this one. And then you had that real spiritual crowd. Well, we follow Jesus. I've met a few like that. And had Jesus walked this earth, they wouldn't have followed him either. Here's what I'm trying to say. All our boasting is vain. It's pointless. And Paul forbids it and says, God forbid that I should glory. God forbid that I should ever begin to brag. Oh, I pray the day never comes. I pray the day never comes. Someone will say, Well, I'm a member of Marinath the Baptist Church. Please understand me. I'm grateful for our local church. But I'm going to tell you something. Every one of us are simply sinners saved by the marvelous grace of God. And the only thing standing between you and hell, you and judgment, you and an eternity without God is the Lord Jesus Christ. Him alone. Him alone. Now God's been awfully good. And we ought to give him all the glory, and we ought to be careful that we take none of it for ourselves That we boast in the Lord. Now watch he says, here's a turning point now in the text. He uses this word save. Save. Accept. Exclusively. This one thing. Paul said, I want you to get it now. I want you to see there's one thing. All the other bragging, put it away. God forbid it. Perish the thought. Vanish it from your mind. Don't let it even entertain. Don't entertain it for a minute. Don't entertain it for a minute. That you've got something to brag about. Except. Except. Now listen, every bird sings its song. Every man has a tendency to boast. If you're going to boast, and you are, you are, you will. If you're going to boast, you better boast in the one thing we're about to see. Look at the person in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. There's where our bragging must be. There's where the bragging must begin. Look at the emphasis. Have you ever asked yourself, why did he say the cross? He could have said a thousand, I mean, he could have said the resurrection. He could have said the sinless life. He could have said a multitude of things, but he said the cross. You know why? He said the cross, the cross, the great work of the cross was the great work of Christ. That cross. Listen now. That cross was where sin was answered. It's on that cross. That cross stands not just as an emblem, but that cross stands as the example of God's attitude towards sin and God's answer for that same sin. God's hatred for sin is seen in that he would punish his son in your place, that he would put him to death on your behalf. God 's answer for sin is that Jesus died for our sins, according to the Scripture The answer for my sin, you say, preacher, is my sin met? Is the sin need met in religious organizations? I'm going to go out here and join a church because that'll make things better. Join every church you want to. Join every type of church, every persuasion. It doesn't matter, you can join a hundred, a thousand. It doesn't matter how many you join, and every single one of them will leave you without an answer for your sin. You'll still bear the load. Go through all the religious exercise you can fancy. Light candles. Pray prayers. Rub beads in your hand. Get in the waters of baptism. Be sprinkled. Go through all of those outward, external exercises of man-made religion. And you know what you're going to find? You've not found the answer for your sin. Not gonna find it. You can turn over a new leaf and say, I'm gonna do better, and you might for a while. And you say, I'm gonna try harder and I'm gonna be a better person But you're going to close your eyes every night and go to sleep with the understanding that there's no answer in that for my sin. I can't compensate. There's no way that I can pile up enough good to compensate for all the bad that I'm aware of And isn't there a sneaking suspicion in the depths of our heart that there's a great deal of darkness we don't even know in our own hearts? So what is the answer? Is there an answer? The answer is the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is on the cross Christ took my sin. And my Bible says he became sin, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Understand this morning that the cross was the great work of Jesus Christ. He came to die for you. The atonement of the cross. A lamb had to be slain. Blood had to be shed. And without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sin. There's no hope for us this morning had the cross not occurred. There's no life for us this morning had the death of Jesus not took place. There's no there's no way for you or I to ever be reconciled to God except there be a mediator And the mediator had to go through what God put him through on Calvary. So that hanging on that cross Jesus built a bridge whereby he would lay hold a lost man and holy God. And the sinless Son of God who shed his blood joined the two together, and my friend made a way for you to be saved. Oh, glory in the cross. Glory in the cross. Glory in the fact that Christ died for a sinner like you. Glory in the fact that Jesus loved you enough to go to Calvary in your place. Glory, brag about it, boast about it. If you've got to boast about anything. Take men to the cross. Tell them what King Jesus did on your behalf. Let them know that you were held bound and held deserving until Jesus died. Until he came in and saved you and transformed your heart. Oh, friend, listen. Oh, the cross, the emphasis of the cross. It was there, the holiness of God was satisfied. Do you know our God is a holy God? He's such a holy God that he cannot look on evil. Can't look on sin. I fear today we've gotten away from the reality that He's holy. Holy, holy, holy. God's a holy God. He doesn't wink at sin like men do. He doesn't take a different attitude over time at wrong. Do you know something From the beginning of creation, from the beginning, and before the beginning. What was wrong in the eyes of God is still wrong today God hasn't changed his mind, and our culture is not going to change it either. And he's holy. You say, how do you how do you satisfy that? How can you satisfy the demands of holiness? You know what holiness screams out when you studied the Old Testament and you read about the law? The law of God exposes two things, the holiness of God and the sinfulness of man. And it demonstrates that our God is on a level of holiness that we cannot achieve. And the law, listen, don't think for a minute some are trying to get to heaven on the law. And they're trying to get to heaven by keeping commandments. And I've got news for you. There's no law given that will get you in. The law is to expose that you're not in. The law takes the blinders off your eyes and takes the, draws the curtain back, lets the light of truth shine in. I don't know how many days it wasn't very sunny around here, but it seemed like it's a long time. And then after that first snow and the sun came out, did anybody else go outside kind of squinting and saying, I don't remember it being this bright? It seems like the the snow magnifies. And it does. It does. In the north there's such a thing as going snow blind from the extreme reflection of that light off of snow. And and man it's bright. I mean even looking over there I see spots. I can't already look out the side windows. That field's covered in snow and that sun's shining on it and it's bright. And I'm telling you, there's a brightness about the holiness of God that you and I can't even enter into or understand. And so, how do you satisfy holiness? Holiness demands a sacrifice. Holiness says there must be shed blood. There must be someone lay down their life. And I'm here to tell you, my friend The Lord Jesus Christ, both holy God and identifying as man, went to Calvary's hill and died just as God demanded it. And God was so satisfied with the sacrifice of his son that he made this pronouncement, Whosoever will may come. You can come to God through Jesus Christ. You don't need a priest. You don't need the Pope. You don't need someone to stand in your stead. You've got the God man Jesus, the high priest standing in your place. Fleeing your cause, go to God through him, find access in him, and know that he saves to the uttermost all that come to God through him. Know that he answered the holiness of God was satisfied. But not only that, saints are justified By the cross. The cross. Justified. You say, but preacher, my record's big. It's long. It's extensive. I mean, if you were to print it out, it would fill volumes and libraries. So, how in the world is someone like me justified? Three words. Three words spoken by the God of heaven Those three words were uttered on the cross of Calvary. Jesus pronounced, It is finished. Man's justified. Martin Luther I read was given the visions and dreams betimes And perhaps God knows the reason, but he would see things and think things, and they would have a great impact on him, and he would write about them. On one occasion he wrote of being tormented by the thought of his sin. And the devil showed up and made a scroll and unrolled a scroll of all the wrong he had done. And he said every pronouncement of evil he had to bow his head and say guilty. Guilty. So you've got to remember something. When it comes to condemnation, the devil's spot on his facts. He knows the record. And he read it. And Luther said, I felt as if he was lying in bed. He said, I felt as if I would sink into hell right there. And he said with glee, the devil turned to leave. And like a flash, he said, I remembered. He didn't unroll the scroll completely. And he said, Come back. And the devil reluctantly turned around. He said, Unroll the scroll to the bottom. And he said, Written in red were these words, it is finished. My dear friend, Saints are justified because of the cross of Calvary. You're not justified because you're a Baptist. You're not justified because you do good deeds. You're not justified because you belong to a gospel preaching church. You're not justified because uh you adhere to certain uh uh beliefs or certain theological ideas. You're justified in the Lord Jesus Christ. whose whose life and death and blood was poured out so that you could be saved. That's why the hymn writer said, I need no other argument. I need no other plea. It is enough that Jesus died and that he died for me. Church, it's enough. It's enough with God. It's enough with you. Thank God for the Lord Jesus. The emphasis on the cross. But then let me quickly get to this. I see it in encouragement. He uses this little word hour. O you O-U-R Our In the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. You notice that? He's talking about other believers. He's including others in that Group. He's speaking to a common people, a people that have something in common. Let me say this. Understand something. God doesn't have second class children. Now some of us hard heads act like he does and treat some of God's little children like they are. But God don't. God's children are his children. And all who put faith in him. It was a glad day when I realized God had people that didn't agree with me. And they were still his people. Some of you hadn't got there yet. One day you will. It may take heaven for some, huh? May take heaven for some. I don't know how we're going to be divided up in heaven, but I guarantee you there's not going to be Baptist Row, Methodist Row, Presbyterian Row. It's all going to be Jesus' way. We come by the way of the cross. Listen, he said our Lord Jesus Christ. Thank God for his children. Thank God for his children. And then I want you to see the exalted name here. You notice that name? He didn't say just Jesus. He said, Our Lord Jesus Christ. Folks know something. The name of Jesus was the earthly name. This Lord Jesus Christ is the heavenly name. First used in Acts chapter 2, 36, as Peter preached on the day of Pentecost and said that what you're seeing now is a demonstration that God hath made him Lord. When he was enthroned in heaven above. And what he's doing here is exalting the fact that Jesus Christ Is the majestic one, the regal one, the heavenly one? What are we glorying in? I fear today we try to humanize deity while we're trying to deify humanity. We're bringing God down. We're making him a good buddy. You listen to music. There's a lot of gospel music that's irreverent in tone. It's just rack it with the religious flavor. And all it does is sort of make you feel comfortable. I want to tell you something, friend, there's not a soul in heaven. That is at that level that we want to think of in our sinful flesh as being comfortable around the Lord Jesus. Everywhere we see in the Word of God that men meet him, they go on their face and they fall down like they're dead. And they show him reverence and respect and glory and they worship him. He's majestic and regal above all. I remember when the Queen of England came to Canada, and I noticed something about her. She carried herself, even though she was an older lady at that time. She carried herself with such dignity. She walked differently than anybody else around her. And although she was a very cordial person, very gracious individual as far as the person is concerned, there was an air of royalty about her. She was the queen and she portrayed that and she gave off that that understanding that she was the queen I remember on occasion she turned to give something to one of her aides and they weren't there. They were over there talking and turned away. And all she did was go. She cleared her throat. And I'll tell you what, you you would have thought somebody shot that aid with electricity. They spun around and looked at her like, what did I do? And she she smiled and handed it to them and they bowed their head and boy, I think it's a bouquet of flowers, and they walked off I'm telling you something. She pales in comparison to the King of all kings and the Lord of all Lords. Friend, he is Lord forevermore. And Paul said, if you're going to brag on something, go beyond the thrones of this temporary time and place. Go beyond the games of religious hierarchy that layer themselves among men and lift people up unnecessarily and unbiblically. Go beyond all the boastings of your old rotten flesh that likes to be proud of the things that it has or that it can do or whatever and know that that that there's something greater than that. Go beyond all of those things and listen, brag on on and boast in the Lord Jesus Christ Go to the throne that's higher than all thrones. Because through the cross you've been made a partaker. You're a part of the kingdom. You're a part of the family. You're heirs to royalty Because of the Lord Jesus Christ. Joint heirs. The Bible says we're joint heirs with Jesus Christ. What he is and has is entitled to you as a joint heir. His standing before the Father is your standing before the Father. When God sees you, beloved, as a child of God, he doesn't see you in all of your brokenness that we were singing about this morning. in all of your clayness as we really are and we see ourselves, he sees us in the Lord Jesus Christ. Just as Christ we stand in his Oh, listen, that's something to brag about. That's something to boast of. Friend, every bird's gonna sing its song. And every man's going to boast about something. Just ask the religious person. If you listen, they'll boast of their religiosity. Listen to them. That person trying to do good. I met a man one time. I said to him, Are you a Christian? He said, Oh yes. I said, tell me how you become a Christian. He said, well, actually, he said, I support about 70 orphans overseas. I said, that's good. How did you become a Christian? He said, I give several thousand dollars a month from my business. He was a mechanic, had a shop. He said, I give several thousand dollars a month out of my business to support orphans. I said, yes, that's good. That's wonderful. How did you become a Christian? He said, are you not listening to me? I said, sir, you're not listening to me. How did you become a Christian? You don't become a Christian by giving money for orphans or feeding those that are hungry or taking care of the poor. You become a Christian by coming by faith to the Lord Jesus Christ and receiving the forgiveness of sins that only He can give to a man's soul. My friend, if you've never trusted Christ, do it today before it's too late. And for those of us who have , Boast about him. If someone sitting on the sidelines heard you talk Would it lead them to think that Jesus is the greatest thing in your life? Or would they have to listen a long time to a whole lot of nothing to come to the conclusion that this person is boasting? In Jesus Christ. Hear the word of God. Hear the prohibition. God forbid God forbid that I should glory saving the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Oh church, may God help us to see. You've got something to boast about. The devil wants you to hang your head in shame, and the world wants you to shut your mouth and go in a corner somewhere. But God wants you to lift your voice and glorify Jesus Christ, who died for your sin, was buried, and rose again the third day. I was looking at our hymns that we sung this morning. And I thought, this has got to please the Father. Our great Savior. Crown him with many crowns. Glorious freedom. Ferris Lord Jesus. Kinda sounds like we're bragging on him. We are. And may God help us to do it even more. In the coming year, let's boast in one, the Lord Jesus Christ. Would you stand with me, please?