Amen. I appreciate the encouragement of God's truth in song here this morning. Uh I'm grateful there's coming a day where storms will be no more. And uh until then we're kept safe and secure in Him. And one of the things that keeps me from getting adjusted to this world is the Word of God. The Bible tells us to be not conformed to this world, but be ye what? Transformed by the renewing of your mind. And God has given us His Word to renew our minds. And we're going to open it here in just a moment. I want to just thank those that have worked so hard this past week in Vacation Bible School. And it would be impossible to name and note every individual, but thank you for the contributions you made this week, the prayers that were prayed and the efforts that were exercised to give such a good week of Bible school. And uh the Lord gave us a very good week. And in spite of the weather, you know, we we didn't think the uh the m the main thing we had planned outside of the preaching and teaching of God's word was going to be possible, but every evening somehow it happened, in spite of the rain and in between the rain and in the rain and And uh we just appreciate the Lord helping in all of that and everyone that helped. And this is probably one time that if you nod off, I'm not gonna say anything. Because if I nod off, you don't say anything, okay? And let's just be fair with each other. But uh I I again thank you for the hard work and it was encouraging this morning. that there were several uh young people on our bus that were in Bible school today. And uh in Bible school this week they're in our Sunday school and junior church this morning. And uh that's encouraging. And uh, you know, there were several things that that was done this week that I believe are critical. Number one, we planted the seed of God's word. And there was a verse that was memorized and emphasized every night, John 14, 6. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Now that's one of those verses, I call them anchor verses. Next to John 3. 16, I think John 14. 6 is one of those critical verses that you need to have in your heart and mind because of the truth that is found in that verse And it was encouraging to hear those those children quote with with clarity and confidence the John 14, 6, and and and know that God put it in their little hearts And so we're praying that he'll give fruit that will remain. I'm also encouraged by the fact that not only did they get the scriptures hidden in their heart, but during the teaching portion of our Bible school They had the gospel given and explained very clearly. It was our desire to do that. And you know it troubles me. This is something I'm going to address in days to come. But that we're so slip-shod in evangelism, especially with our children. And my friend, salvation's of the Lord. It's not snake oil that we sell. And it grieves me. It grieves me. I had discussions with a few children. That frequent Bible schools. And I'm grateful for all the Bible schools that are held where the Bible is taught. But I'm also grieved when professions are pushed. And an effort is made to just get a notch, a mark, a check. And we present salvation like that. Man, it's bigger than that. When God does a work in a person's heart, it's God doing the work. And it's not the manipulation of of of people. But we praise the Lord that the gospel was was given and explained. And another thing I'm thankful for is that that love was shown to these children. And I appreciate that. I appreciate everybody that worked, had such a good attitude, and uh the the rain made everything different and difficult. But there was just a sweetness among all the volunteers and they demonstrated those children. And uh if if children need anything today, they need somebody to love them and love them The way Christ loves us. And I appreciate that. And then I think the last thing that uh really encouraged my heart was is that these children were shown that you can actually enjoy uh life as a Christian. You can enjoy being a Christian. And uh certainly we we tried to do that uh the the safari. You know, I I watched and was on a few of the safaris and I'm not sure who enjoyed it more. The big people or the little people? Some of you big people were more enthusiastic than the little people. But uh that was something neat to see. And uh I I appreciate the the antics of our Lively gorilla. And we had a gorilla, did we not? And uh and I'm telling ya Brother Ben's going to have some branches to pick up. He got a little too excited a few times and uh broke several tree branches on the lower part of the property. But it was very realistic. But uh I I appreciate that. But I I am grateful that that God's people can enjoy. The Bible says He gives us richly all things to enjoy. Now we don't trust, Paul warned, don't trust in uncertain riches, but we trust in the Lord, and the Lord's the one who gives us richly all things to enjoy. And I appreciate the effort that you put in. And by the way, all of the decorations are left up downstairs. So when we dismiss, would you just walk through the the bottom level the Sunday school area. Look in the classrooms. I think four we have four classrooms that are decorated. And then the middle room where the craft room is or was rather. Uh walk through there and then the fellowship hall will be unlocked and you can just take a peek in there and just look at the effort. I I was appreciative of the above and beyond the effort people made. um to make the the VBS what it was. And so I praise the Lord for that. Take a look at it and uh I know you'll be thankful as well I want you to open your Bibles with me, please, to the book of Genesis, chapter number nine. Genesis chapter number nine. And I'm going to begin reading in verse number eight. Genesis chapter number nine and verse number eight. The Bible says this, and God spake unto Noah and to his sons with him, saying, And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you. And with your seed after you, and with every living creature that is with you. Of the fowl, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you, from all that go out of the ark to every beast of the earth. And I will establish my covenant with you. Neither shall all flesh be cut off anymore by the waters of the flood. Neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth. And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make between me and you, and every living creature that is with you. For perpetual generations. You might want to highlight that. I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant Between me and the earth. And it shall come to pass when I bring a cloud over the earth that the bow shall be seen in the cloud. And I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you, and every living creature of all flesh, and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh. And the bow shall be in the cloud, and I will look upon it, that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and ever living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth. Now note verse 17, and God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth. I want you to consider with me for a few minutes this morning God's rainbow. God's rainbow. Brother Andy Bishop, would you lead us in prayer and ask for the Lord to help us, please? We're grateful for this time this uh place set apart when we can come together and selectively hear your word. Yes. And Father, we're Anxious. We're anticipating hearing from you this morning. Lord, you knew of this assembly from eternity past. And Father, we know that you have a word for each one of us sitting here, each one listening from without the auditorium. Lord, help us be attentive Lord, give us ears to hear, hearts to believe, Lord, and a desire to do what your word tells us to do. We do pray for our pastor. Giving clarity of thought, Lord, freedom in his speech and liberty in his spirit, Lord, to give us what you have us. Father, all this we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. I want you to look again at my text and consider what the Bible is saying to us. We've come to the End of the great flood. You read about that in the previous chapter. How God brought a flood of waters upon the entire earth. And you say, well. I have trouble believing that. Well, friend, it's what the Bible says. And the Bible says that he flooded the entire earth. He flooded the whole earth. And because of that, we see the devastation and destruction of all mankind save Noah and his wife and their three sons and their three wives. And we find the beginnings again of life upon the earth. Noah took into the ark every living creature God instructed him to bring in. all of the creatures of the earth, and they would live in that place until God's appointed time, and the flood was past. Once the ground began to dry and life began to return, Noah and his family and all the animals that were on the ark exited and began to live again. It was at this time that God would speak and say, Noah, I want to give you something. I want to give you, well, that's what a token is. A token is a symbol or a picture or a type. of something that that is being spoken or being said, and he said, I want to give you a token to remind you that I will not destroy the earth this way ever again. And so God gave him a rainbow. You know, it's interesting to me that in the Bible, there are three, this counts, this makes four if we count Genesis chapter nine. But there are four times in the Bible that a rainbow is mentioned. You might want to mark these down because they're good study material. In Ezekiel chapter 1, verse 28. Ezekiel is getting ready to pronounce God's judgment upon Israel. And he's going to bring a message, but before he brings a message, God gives him a vision. And that vision is of the throne of God. And you see, before he can go with the message, he's got to know who his master is. And so God lets Ezekiel see the throne. And when he sees the throne in verse 28, he describes it as having a bow about the throne. In other words, there was a rainbow around the throne of God. That's interesting to me. That in context of coming judgment upon Israel, God lets Ezekiel see a rainbow around the throne. Fast forward to the second mention in Revelation chapter four and verse number three. Revelation chapter 4 and verse number 3. John the Revelator now sees another vision. And John is allowed to see the throne of God as well, just like Ezekiel. Now, you know the sequence of Revelation, 1, 2, and 3. Deals with the seven churches. Revelation chapter 4, verse 1, the come up hither is issued. God's calling his church up in the rapture. In verse number three, we're on the brink of tribulation, we're on the brink of judgment, not just upon a nation, but upon all the nations of the earth. And what does John see? John sees a rainbow. And that rainbow encircles the throne. One more time it's mentioned. In Revelation chapter 10, verse 1, there's an angel who sent down from heaven. And I'm not a hundred percent settled on who this angel is. Some say he's Michael, the archangel. Others would say that he's Gabriel. And there are some, and I lean this way, believe that it's the Lord Jesus. But this angel declares, Time shall be no more. And John describes this angel as having a rainbow around his head. And he identifies him in that way. And that angel says again, time will be no more. Now, those are the four cases that this thing of a rainbow is found in the Word of God. And by the way, let me say this: they all are associated with the promises of God. God 's promises. I want you to remember something. The Bible will clear up my thinking in a lot of ways. And the rainbow is to be forever associated with God's promises, not man's sinfulness. It represents the promise of God. Now, look with me if you will, and I want to try to emphasize what God emphasizes, and obviously he emphasizes the covenant in Genesis chapter number nine. Do you realize that seven times that word covenant is used? Will you look at it with me, verse 9? He said, I, behold, I establish my covenant. Verse eleven, I will establish my covenant. Verse 12, this is the token of the covenant. Verse 13 , it shall be for a token of a covenant. Verse 15, and I will remember my covenant. Verse 16, I may remember the everlasting covenant. Verse 17, this is the token of the covenant. Seven times in these few verses, that word covenant is used. By the way, can I put this in here? God doesn't repeat himself for a lack of words. I remember hearing Brother Billy Kelly say, when you preach, he said, never describe something with the same word. He said, always use a different word. He said, people get tired of hearing the same word over and over again. Well, that might be true of our ears, but it's not true of God's word. God often uses a word again and again and again. You say, why would he do that? Because he's trying to emphasize something. He's wanting you to understand that this is an important part of what he's saying. And what's important here is that God said, I have made a covenant. I want to look at that covenant real quick. Number one, I want you to notice the meaning of a covenant. What is a covenant? A covenant is a binding agreement. It is a pledge or a promise made. By the way, the first use of the word covenant is here in Genesis chapter 9. The first time you find that word covenant, it's here as God deals with Noah. And it's also interesting to me that when he talks about this covenant, he it involves not just man. But notice what it involves. He's making a covenant not just with man, but look what verse ten says, with every living creature. Isn't that interesting? God said, I'm making a covenant not just with you, Noah, and your children and those after you, but I'm making a covenant with all the animals of the earth. He goes on to say, of the fowl, of the cattle, of every beast of the earth, with you, from all that go out of the ark to every beast of the earth. God included them in this covenant. Now, I want you to see that this covenant is a promise made by God. God is making a promise here. And friend, God does not make promises lightly. When God makes a covenant, He keeps it. When God makes a promise, He honors it. That's what encourages me about John 14. Jesus said, if I go, I will come again. To receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be also. I'm grateful that I have that blessed hope of the glorious appearing of the Lord Jesus Christ. He made that promise. Now the Bible says that scoffers will come in the last day saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were. But the Bible says the Lord is not slack concerning his promises. But he's long-suffering towards all men. Listen, he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance and to the acknowledgement of the truth. Listen, God will keep his promises. Even when it seems like he waits long, even when it seems like outwardly, visibly, it's just not true. Have you ever felt abandoned? Lord, why am I in this place? Lord, why these circumstances? Lord, why this situation? Lord, why did you let this come my way? But you know there's a promise that says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. So that we may boldly say, The Lord's my helper. Oh, but but I don't feel him. Well, but the facts are he's there. But I don't see him. Oh, but the Bible says he's there. But I can't sense him. Oh, listen, aren't you glad when you can't sense him, you can trust him? He's there, often he's there undetected. You ever noted that? He's already there under shaken. Have you ever gone through something and get on the other side of it and say, Why Lord, you was there all along. I didn't know it then. I didn't sense it then. I didn't recognize it then. But looking back, I can see that Lord you were there. I think part of the worship in heaven is going to come from hearts that recognize He was with me all the way. All the way my Savior led me. All the way he stood beside me. All the way, he never once abandoned me, even when I fell on my knees and said, Oh Lord, where are you? How many times did the psalmist David say, Lord, hast thou forgotten me? How many times did the psalmist cry out, Lord, remember me? You know why? Because he felt like God had just forgotten him, that God had forsaken him. But I've got news for you. There's a God in heaven who's greater than that. And my friend, he stands true to his word. His promises can be counted on. So we made a covenant Now, whether Noah understood the significance of this covenant, it's irrelevant. God made the promise and he stood to it, and he forever will. You know something the Bible teaches us very clearly here that when God makes a promise that he keeps it, that's the meaning of a covenant. God made other covenants, there's the Abrahamic covenant. God made a covenant with Abraham. And that covenant had to do with the people, had to do with a particular person who would come, had to do with prophecy, and had to do with a place. And God's going to keep his word, and every promise that he made, he's going to fulfill. That's why the little nation of Israel is in such a tumultuous position. Because God's made some promises about her, and He's made some promises regarding that land, and God's going to stand to all of them. Because God keeps his covenant. You come to the New Testament, we enter a new era. God makes a covenant through the person of the Lord Jesus. We have a new mediator of the new covenant, the Lord Jesus Christ. And God's made promises regarding him, and he stands to them. His promise regarding him is that whosoever shall come unto me, I will in no wise cast out. His promises in him are that because he's so pleased with the sacrifice of his son That he accepts all who trust in him, who come to him, who come to God through him. He offers full and free forgiveness. And listen, it's all based on the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. My salvation rests not in my performance, but in a person. If you ever get a hold of that, it'll deliver you from undue fear. That I am saved. Not on how I act, but on the great act of Calvary. Where Christ died for my sin and was buried and rose again the third day. So we see that these covenants are so critical. And here Here, some would say there are others, but I believe this is the first covenant God made. The Bible spells it out clearly. And he made it with Noah. Now there's a message in the covenant, and I want you to note that in verse number eleven, he said, I will establish my covenant with you Neither shall all flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood. Neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth. So the Bible is telling me here that judgment would no more come this way on the earth, the whole earth. You need to understand that message is that God's saying, look, I'm going to spare man. Do you know this is a message of mercy and grace? You say, how do you know? Because that judgment did not fundamentally change man. What did the Bible say? The Bible said that man 's faults We're only evil continually. That's how man was. Wait a minute Didn't the Lord Jesus say that when he comes, the coming of the Son of Man, that as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it also be in the days of the coming of the Son of Man? And one of the noted marks of men is that we're increasingly evil in our imaginations. And the Bible says in Noah's day they were all evil. Every thought was evil. The imaginations of their heart were continually Evil. You ever watch the news and think, how could somebody think of that? I mean, how in the world could you come up with such a heinous act of of of some crime and and you just shake your head and think, well, there's there's a whole lot of evil imaginations That are tending towards continually in the day in which we live. But God said, Noah, I'm not going to destroy the earth like that ever again. What a testimony of the grace of God. See, God was making a promise to Noah, and God was saying, I want you to rest assured, I will not destroy the world with water. Now I I don't doubt things are rapidly being prepared for the end as far as the earth is concerned. I think that's visible, that's clear to all of us. But is it not strange to you that the cry of the climate change movement is the earth is going to be overwhelmed by water? From the melting glaciers and snow. It pardon my bad English, but it ain't gonna happen. God said water's not going to destroy it. You know what God did say? He said fire will. So God keeps his promise. There's a message of grace and mercy. But then I want you to note something, the making of this covenant. Ten times. Go through and mark this. And again, it's critical that we see what God's emphasizing. God doesn't repeat Himself. Did you ever have a parent like this? My my mother used to ask me questions. I learned something. She knew the answers before I did. If she asked a question, she wasn't asking for information. She was usually asking for confession. Huh? And the Lord's not stating something for just mere uh m just just uh again for no reason whatsoever. Ten times he says I. Let's look at some of them. Look at verse 9. Here's the critical text. And I, behold, I. Notice that he he wanted Noah to know who's making this covenant. Noah , you don't have a part in this. I'm not expecting anything out of you, but I'm going to tell you what I'm going to do. I, behold, I establish my covenant with you. He goes on and says, verse 11, I will establish. He goes on and says, I make between me and you. I do. I bring. I will remember. You see the emphasis? There's ten of them there. God is saying, I'm making a covenant. I'm doing this. Can I point out something here? God is exercising his sovereign rule over all. He's saying, I'm doing this, regardless of what you do. Noah, regardless, by the way, it's a good thing because what does Noah do not many days after? Read the chapter. The Bible says he gets drunk. And I've heard some fancy footwork about preaching that that made it say something that it that it didn't say, but it says that Noah got drunk. And the plain facts are that Noah was still a man with flesh that could sin and fail. And he did. But God made a covenant that did not depend on Noah's faithfulness. It depended on God's faithfulness. We need a revival of Christianity that reckons on the faithfulness of God, not the performance of man. Now I'm going to tell you something: the faithfulness of God will transform the hearts of men. I don't believe in a salvation that leaves you as you were. If something as big as God moves in, things are going to change. Hey, your mother-in-law calls up and says, I'm moving in. Things are going to change in your house. And you tell me that God can come in and leave us as we are? Oh no. The Bible still says if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things become new. Listen, he transforms us. But I want to say this the strength of the covenant, the strength of the promise is not based upon performance. It's based upon the person who made the agreement. And God said, Noah, this is what I'm going to do. God 's decrees are both eternal and irrevocable by man. And you can walk out here and say, preacher, that's that's crazy. I don't believe it. That's your privilege. I'm glad I live somewhere where I'm free. I'm glad. And we're Baptists. And one of the tenets of of our Baptist distinctives is we believe in the liberty of the soul of man. Listen, friend, if you could by the force, I heard a preacher say this, he said, if I could by the force of my little finger make somebody believe what I believe, I wouldn't exert it. Because that's not that's not God's way. God doesn't do that. But my friend, I want to inform you that you can walk out of here and say, I don't believe that you can walk out of here and deny it, but it does not change the fact. The decrees of God are eternal. I want you to note a miracle. Now, again, this is, I'm trying to introduce this and get to the message. Don't Mercy, it's five till. So I'm going to have to hurry with the message part. But I want you to see the miracle of this thing. Notice verse 13, I do set my bow in the cloud. For you Bible scholars, Genesis 1:17 uses the same word where he set the sun, moon, and stars. God placed them, created them, made them. Oh, I know the scientific explanation, but listen to me, Christian. Don't ever let it replace the simplicity of faith in God's Word. God set the bow. The bow's an eternal the rainbow is an eternal miracle that God is decreeing. Look what I have done in making a promise to all mankind. I was thinking of this. I wonder how many little children, when a rainbow is seen, there's an adult who says to them, You see that? That's God's promise. That's a token of the promise of God. Wonder how many. Oh, I know all the foolishness that's around it. Oh, there's a pot of gold. I saw a rainbow not too long ago s and it ended over the landfill down here. It may be a pot of gold for the county, but it's not much for anybody else. Our notions are foolish. But it it it triggered a memory. I remember as a little boy, my dad always saying we'd be out in the field working or be out on the farm somewhere and a rainbow would appear and he'd say, Son That's God keeping his promise. That's God keeping his promise. And I don't know about you, but there's something comforting about that to know that God was doing something to reassure me that he keeps his word. The rainbow is a miracle. It's a miracle, a miraculous creation of God. Now let me get to the message of the rainbow, and I'll be I'll be brief, I promise. Three short things. Verse 17, and God said unto Noah This is the token of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth. Why does it matter that we understand this covenant made with Noah? Number one, because of the authority involved. See, God said this. God said to Noah, Noah the rainbows. My token of my covenant with you. It's God's authority. And any any effort to do otherwise With this token that God has given, with this rainbow, is an assault on the authority of God. God said these things. And you know something? I take great comfort in the fact that what God says will stand no matter what man does. Does that not encourage your heart this morning? That God's decrees cannot be pulled down by the decrees of man. Oh, we can rattle our sabers and shout our messages and Claim our protests, but we can't undo what the Almighty has done eternally. That'll put grit in your heart. There's authority involved. Number two, the truth represented. What's the message of the rainbow and why does it matter? Because it represents a truth. The Bible here calls it a token of the covenant. The rainbow is a sign of God's gracious promise. Now think about it. Noah 's encountered the most Unbelievable catastrophe to ever hit the earth. And my friend, we often think of these Bible characters in an unfair and unreal way. Noah was a man like you're a man. The Bible says Elijah was a man subject to like passions. And when Noah got on that ark and the Lord shut the door and the rain began to fall and the fountains of the earth broke up, of the deep broke up. And that vapor canopy gave way, and all the earth was destroyed, the water. I don't think he was sailing along just sweetly singing and smiling. This was an ordeal. And then suddenly that thing set down. And they opened the windows And they start sending out the birds to see for signs of life. Put yourself in their shoes. Eight people left on the whole earth. The only animals living are those in the ark. This was an ordeal. I don't know about you, but I I'm telling you, when I felt a raindrop coming again, I'd be inclined to get somewhere safe. I might wonder, Lord, is it coming again? You ever been through something that makes you a little You know, it happens you get you get gunshy or whatever words you want to call it. And and I and I don't doubt that Noah needed this. I know Noah needed this because God gave it to him. And you know what? Every time that rainbow appeared, it was the reassurance of God, Noah, I'm keeping my word, I'm not going to do that again. And do you know what that token brought? It brought peace to his heart. You know what Noah had to do? He had to believe God. Friend, do you realize that all through our Bible, that's the way it's been? Man has to believe God. Abraham believed God and it was counted unto him for righteousness. Noah believed God and God gave him peace, and when he saw that rainbow, it would flood his heart with with the reminder that God told me he would never destroy the earth again. The truth that is represented here is very critical. That God can be trusted. And is that not what the whole battle's about? Are you going to trust God or not? Are you going to believe God? Is that not where the war is being raged? Who are we going to trust? I don't know about you, but I look at put near everything anymore with an eye of suspicion. I mean you listen to it, you look at it. And you're always wondering, or at least I am anymore, I'm wondering what's behind it? What's on the other side of it? Am I being told everything? Huh? But when it comes to the Lord, I have to lay all of that aside because the Lord's never told me a lie. And the Lord has never failed on a promise. And I can simply trust him. I may not see the way out. I may not know or understand, but I'll tell you what I can do. I can pillow my head on the precious promises of God and know that He keeps His word. Let the devil rage and all hell come against it, but the reality is God's word shall stand. The truth that is represented in the rainbow is that God can be trusted. By the way, you can trust Him with your soul. The most precious part of your being. Eternal and everlasting. You know why I'm going to heaven? Not because I'm a preacher, not because I'm a Baptist, but because I've trusted the Lord Jesus Christ. And his finished work on Calvary. And I'm resting, I'm resting. I'll never forget what that old preacher said to me when I battled the assurance of my salvation. He shocked me. I've told you this before, but he knelt down beside me and I'd prayed. Man, I'd been the altar probably every service, sometimes three and four times a service for three long years trying to get this thing nailed down. And I think he might have been a bit aggravated. I don't know. Because he didn't say it in love. But he spoke truth. He said, What are you trusting in? I said, The best I know how I'm trusting in what Jesus did on the cross. I'm trusting in the person of Christ. He said, then just go to hell trust in him. And he got up and walked off. I thought, well, I didn't come to church hear that. I thought you'd give me some encouragement. And I remember riding home that day thinking, go to hell trust in Jesus. Go to hell trusting Jesus. Go to hell trust in Christ. Why, if I did that, the Bible wouldn't be true. And and and and God could not be trusted. I'll tell you that came like a strong breeze and blew my doubt and fear away. And help me understand that you can rest on the Word of God. My old feelings are as fickle as the weather in Maryland. My emotions come and go. My notions change, but my God doesn't change and his word doesn't change. And I rest here. On thus saith the Lord. That rainbow, that rainbow, it represents a trustworthy God. Let me say this and I'm through. Not only the authority involved the truth represented, but the picture that is painted here. There's a picture painted. God says here, which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth. Now, in a very real sense, this rainbow portrays the grace of God in the person of Jesus Christ. It stands as a memorial to God's promise to withhold judgment. That's what it is You'll notice he says that. He said in uh verse number fifteen, he said, I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh. And verse 16, and I will look upon it, that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh is upon the earth. You know what God is saying? He's saying, this token, Noah , you're going to see it, and I'm going to see it. You're going to look at it and get peace. I'm going to look at it as a token of mercy on your part. And I'm going to look on it and remember this covenant. Henry Morris, the creation scientist, said the rainbow thus demonstrates most gloriously the grace of God. The pure white light from the unapproachable holiness of his throne is refracted, as it were, through the glory clouds surrounding his presence. Breaking into all the glorious colors of God's creation. In wrath, he remembers mercy. The glory follows the sufferings. And where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. You know something the Bible tells me that when he sees the blood, he passes over? My hope and my peace and my confidence is in this, that in the person of Jesus Christ I'm fully pardoned My sins are eternally put away. I'm forgiven forevermore. Grace has been extended towards me. And when God sees me, he doesn't see me. As I see me, he sees me in the perfection of his son, washed in his blood, brought into his family as representative in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. What a standing. What a standing. Can I say it like this: Christ is God's living rainbow for all who are saved. He's a living token. How can I fear when I look at him How can I tremble? Oh, listen, the coming judgment is a fearful thing. The Bible says it's a fearful thing to fall in the hands of a living God. But I'll tell you I'm in a safe space. Hey, God had a safe place long before we ever started creating them. That safe place is Jesus. And when it comes time to make the crossing, my denomination It's not going to bring me a lick of comfort. I'm not going to be on my deathbed and face eternity and say, Boy, I'm glad I was a Baptist. But if I can but see him who's altogether lovely, he'll be my hope and stay. Oh friend, it paints a picture. The rainbow paints a picture of God's grace in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Friend, I want to say this. If you don't know him today, I urge you to trust him. Our Bibles tell us very clearly that Christ was born into this world through the Virgin's womb. He lived a sinless life for 33 and a half years. He died a substitutionary death. That means he died for you and me. He died for no sin of his own. He was buried and three days later he arose and he lives. Where does he live? Well, he lives in those who are saved. The Bible says he lives at the right hand. Of the Father. He lives. You have a living Savior, a living hope. And thank God this morning, if you are lost and undone and don't don't know the way to heaven, understand what those little children were taught this week. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh. unto the Father but by me. In simplest terms, Jesus said, I'm the only way. He said, I'm the door. If any man enter in by me, he shall be saved. He made it right clear, didn't he? That he's the only way. And friend, if you're not saved, he's the only way to be saved. But dear friend. Don't get adjusted to this world. Let this Bible remind you Of God's creation and what he's doing. And by the way, it all points back to Jesus somehow or another. And even the rainbow says, remember grace and mercy in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. You know the devil's a destroyer. That's all he does. That's what he's come to do. But the Bible says Jesus has come that we might have life and that more abundantly. Oh friend, thank God for life in the person of Christ. If you're if you're not saved, my friends, you can be Christ made a way. And friend, if you are saved, I wouldn't waste my life living for things that are quickly passing. For soon we'll see him. And you know the only important thing in heaven is going to be him. We're going to look at that tonight. In Revelation chapter 5, it's all about him. It's all about him. May it be so in our lives each day we live down here. Would you stand with me please? Brother Cup