He's our peace, he's our hope, he's our joy. Everything you need is found in him. It's really all about Him. What a glad day it is to understand that. I want you to open your Bibles, please, and go with me to the Gospel of Matthew. Chapter number nine. And I'm going to begin reading in verse 9 to verse number 13. Matthew chapter 9 and verse 9 down to verse number 13. I'm interested in this encounter with the Lord. It's something we started on last Sunday and My heart still exercised in that way that we look at these encounters when people met the Lord. Uh what a difference he made, and yet what a wonder he was to those he met. I was thinking as they were singing, He came, Jesus, in John 1, He came unto His own, and His own received him not. It's a marvel to me that these individuals who knew the Bible so well were so blind to the reality that was right in front of them. Oh, they knew the they knew the text. They knew the story of the manna. They knew the parting of the sea. They knew the land that was uh caught in the thicket or the ram that was caught in the thicket on Mount Moriah. They they knew all the pictures, shadows, and types, but they failed to put it all together. And standing in their very presence was this promised Messiah. And yet the Bible says they did not receive him. Oftentimes I think the reason is that he did not fit their preconceived ideas. They were looking for what they expected, and not looking for what God had promised. You see, had they been really putting all the puzzles pieces together, they would have realized that what was promised was a sacrifice. In Genesis 3:15, the very first mention of Messiah, he would have his heel bruised. He would be a wounded Messiah. Isaiah again and again and very expressly in Isaiah 53 talked about how he would lay his life down, that he would be cut off. And this was a picture of the Messiah they did not want to see. But it was the truth about who he is. I think we often miss what God wants to do. Because it doesn't fit in our preconceived idea. We say, now, Lord, I want you to work. And the Lord says, I'm working. Don't you see it? But he's not working the way we want him to work. He's not doing what we think he ought to do. But yet he's doing just exactly what he said he would do. And may the Lord help us to see that the Lord works in his own way and he works according to his own will. If you found your place, would you stand with me please and let's read these? I'll read them aloud. You follow along silently. In Matthew chapter 9 and verse 9, the Bible says, And as Jesus passed from thence He saw a man named Matthew sitting at the receipt of custom. And he saith unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him. And it came to pass as Jesus sat at meat in the house, behold, many publicans and sinners came and sat down with him and his disciples. And when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto his disciples, Why eateth your master with publicans and sinners But when Jesus heard that, he said unto them, They that be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. But go ye and learn what that meaneth. I will have mercy and not sacrifice. For I am not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. What our Lord did here Upended the religious people of his day. I want to preach on this workings of Christ, how he works. And how we can identify it is the Lord. Father, do help us now. I pray that you'd undertake. I pray you'd just give grace and help. Hide me behind the cross. Help me to lift up the Lord Jesus Please work, Lord, in our midst, save the lost, reclaim the backslider, accomplish all that you desire, and we'll be careful to bow our heads and give you the glory, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said Amen. You can be seated. I'll remind you in the Old Testament, Isaiah fifty-five and eight says For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. Our Lord often does things that leave us puzzled. Here he's working in a man's life that if you were choosing disciples You would not even give a second thought. If I was making up the men who were going to carry out the commission to Preach the gospel to every creature, I certainly would not look in the direction that our Lord looked But quite frankly, if I was going to save a sinner, I wouldn't start saving a sinner like me. But our Lord often does things that just puzzle us. He often saves people that make us sit back and wonder, Lord, what are you doing? And I want you to see this morning that our Lord does know what he's doing. He's got a purpose in everything he does. In Matthew chapter 9, we've got the call, or I'm going to call it a remarkable conversion. Because here is a man who is saved on the spot. When he hears the call, the Lord says, follow me, and immediately he gets up and he follows the Lord. Now, you say what's so remarkable about by the way, any any salvation is remarkable. Uh I I think sometimes we either take it for granted or we just get maybe cold to it. But when anybody gets saved, uh uh it doesn't matter who they are or where they're at or what situation, that's a remarkable thing. It's a miracle of God. People say, Well, I don't believe in miracles. Well, hold on a minute. Salvation's a miracle. And when anybody gets saved, it's a miracle, work of God. And and we ought to praise God for that miracle. I'm looking at some people I believe are miracles. I I believe that the fact that God saved you and did the work he did in your life is a miracle. That that he would reach down and stoop down and dig you and I up. out of the bottom of the pit and put our feet on a solid rock and wash our sins away and write our name in the Lamb's book of life. Friend, that is a miracle. And we bless his name for that. And here is a miracle. Here is a conversion of a man. Well, you say, what is the miracle? Well, I want you to notice that the Bible really stresses his occupation. He was, as the Bible says here , in verse number nine, sitting at the receipt of custom. Now, Luke 5 and Mark 2 give the rest of the account. They add details Matthew doesn't add. Luke goes into quite deep detail about this Matthew, that he was a tax collector. And he wasn't just your average tax collector. Someone said you could put him up with the equivalent of an IRS regional director. So, in other words, he was a man who had real power and real authority. He was someone who uh really was hated by those Jewish people. He was a man that was despised. You see, he worked for the enemy. He worked for the enemy. Boy, I'll tell you, the enemy's just everywhere, isn't he? Help us Must be another one on. I'll get to preaching here in a minute when all this racket 's gone. There we go. Matthew, as he worked for this government, do you realize that they would set up tolls? on bridges and you'd have to pay to cross that bridge. And they would take I mean we th yeah, you ever travel ninety five, you pay tolls To drive on a road and you pay you paid for that thing a thousand times. I remember when we lived in in Canada the the Cobacwood Pass was built by an American company And so to regain the money for rebuilding that pass across the mountain down to the other end of the province, they had tolls. And they collected tolls. They said we'll collect tolls, I think originally it was for seven years, and uh we'll we'll recoup our cost and then uh we'll give that roadway over. Well, about twenty two years later You're still paying tolls as you ride down the road, and boy, there's some people getting upset. They paid for that road multiple times over. Well, these these tax collectors, this man who sat at receipt of customs, likely Matthew being in a seaport Area, he was there getting taxes off the goods that were being brought in, or possibly even taken out And so he had an occupation that was greatly despised. And these men rightly had earned a bad name because they took advantage of people. And they took money that weren't theirs. And Luke says that Matthew put on this feast in his own house. And so when you think about the number of peoples that were there, he had a big house. Someone said it was palatial. It was a palace likely built on the backs of the poor people that he had stoles from. And yet it's still a man that Jesus Christ said, follow me, follow me. I not only want you to see the occupation, but I want you to see the orders that he was given. The Lord simply said to him, follow me. Oh, listen, if if you could get your Christianity reduced to two words, boil it down to this. Follow me. We complicate our Christianity to the point of great confusion. But when our Bible speaks and when the Lord communicates He simplifies, and I'm thankful. I'll be honest with you. I'm very thankful that he simplifies things. To Matthew, he he didn't give him a long lecture He didn't give him four paragraphs to go through and to look for the fine print. He just simply looked him square in the eye and said, Follow me. That's all. Just follow me. And Matthew, of course, to his great credit, you see his obedience, the Bible says that he immediately He rose up and he followed him. Luke says in Luke 5. 28 that he left all. And you imagine? Here is a man that he's he's sitting there, he's he's gathering these taxes, he he's becoming and has become very wealthy. And he's got a place, a position, and he's and and the Lord, the Lord Jesus. Now I I think he's heard about him. I think he's known something of his ministry and his miracles, his works in that region And the Lord summons him and says directly to him, hey, follow me, Matthew. And Matthew gets up, he leaves everything behind, and he goes and follows the Lord. I'm saying when we look at this remarkable conversion, oh listen, what an unlikely character for the Lord to save. How unusual a thing it is that the Lord would go after such as this. And you know what our thinking is? I think sometimes we think God is only interested in good people. But I've got news for you, there's no such critter. The Bible says there is none good. No, not one. There's not a we say, oh he's a good man or she's a good woman, and when the truth of the matter is there's no goodness in any of us, if there is any goodness, it's because Jesus is present. And so he calls and saves this remarkable conversion of this man named Matthew. And don't you know it sent a shock wave? through the spiritual or the religious crowd of that day, the spiritual leaders of that day, because here is in their eyes a traitor Here in their eyes is a very filthy man, a very wicked man. Here is a man that Jesus ought to know better than to have anything to do with, and he goes over there and says, Matthew, you follow me I'm glad the Lord don't ask my opinion when He goes save somebody. I'm glad He doesn't look for your vote. Or your can't and say, now I I I better go ask them because I I don't know if I ought to save somebody like the Lord's not interested in that. He saves whosoever he will. But then notice this real concern, and I believe it was demonstrated by Matthew. We we go on and read in verse number 10: it came to pass as Jesus sat at meet in the house. Behold, many publicans and sinners came and sat down with him and his disciples. Luke goes on in his his account, Luke 5. And he says that Matthew did this in his house. He threw a feast. And I believe he did that, number one, to honor the Lord. He wanted to honor the Lord. He, in some way, wanted to recognize the appreciation of his heart that he would take notice of a man like him and show him mercy. You know, I think sometimes we get to thinking God got a good deal when he got us. I want you to know something. You know who got the deal? Me and you. We got the deal. Listen, we're like Matthew, we really had no place or right or memorial. We we we really do not deserve the mercies of God. But oh how merciful he's been to save sinners like you and me. He wanted to honor him. He made a great feast. I believe we ought to honor the Lord too. It ought to be the desire of a heart. I can't repay God for salvation. That's not even expected. But I can demonstrate how much I appreciate what He's done by honoring the Lord. I can honor the Lord with my life. I can honor the the Lord with my my labor, with all that that that I do. I can put all of my person into that place. Say, Lord, I want to honor you with this. I want to honor you in the lifestyle I live. And I want to honor you. And by the way, you know what we're doing here this morning? We're honoring the Lord. I appreciate what Doc said this morning in Sunday school. He said we didn't have to come to church. We got to come to church. We get to be in this place. You know why? Because in our heart, Lord, I want to honor you. This is your day, and we want to honor you, and we want to recognize That Lord, you've done something for me that nobody else could do. You've saved me, and Lord, you've you've you've been so kind to me. And I just want to honor you in some small way. This is one of those ways that we can honor the Lord. But not only do I see the honor of the Lord, but I see the humility of the Lord. Jesus sat at meat. Now rewind about Thirty plus years. And figure where Jesus was sitting. He was in heaven. He was among angels. He was there in that holy of holiest places. The company around him was crying the praise: Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. And yet now in his manhood he's sitting in the publican's house, the tax collector's house, and all around him are other tax collectors because they're wondering what happened to Matthew. Did Matthew uh lose his mind? Did Matthew fall off his rocker? I mean, he just left his job and left everything, and now he's sitting here learning at the feet of Jesus. He's sitting Jesus is sitting in his house, he's following this man. What happened to Matthew? Well, he's having a feast. Let's go see. Let's go see if we can figure out. Don't you know the talk among those men was, oh, he just got religion? He's got rel aren't you glad you got something better than religion? Man, if if that's if that's all a man's got, he might as well get the chicken pox. Religion won't do anything for you but make you miserable. I'm grateful that we've got a salvation that is real and a savior who's real and a relationship with God that is real every day of the week. Here is a man and you see him , the Lord has humbled himself to sit among these people. Someone said the Lord graciously goes where he's invited. Wonder how welcome he is in our lives and perhaps even in this church. How welcome is the Lord. I mean, the one that we really ought to be concerned about this morning is Him. We see the humility of the Lord. He came and he sat with those sinners. He came and sat with the publicans. He came and sat among those tax collectors. And you say, what was he doing there? He was there to help the lost. The Bible says in verse 10 that many publicans and sinners came. You say, why did they come? Well, I believe Matthew said, I want you to come meet this man. I want you to come and listen to him. I want you to come and see just what it is that he's all about because he's changed my life. You know something? The thing that we recognize as a mark of a Christian is that they want other people to be saved too. A real Christian wants to see somebody else meet the Lord just like they have. A real person, a person who's really been born again will have a desire for others to know the Lord. Why? Because knowing Him is the best thing that ever happened in any of our lives. And we want them to know. You know, a lot of times we witness out of duty rather than delight. Well, I gave out my ten tracks today. Well, all right, you want a star? Where's the delight of I've just got to tell you who Jesus is? I want to tell you what he did for me. You can't get that in a soul-winning course. I think a lot of times we try to educate what God only can ignite. And you can't get that enthusiastic. I'll tell you where you get it. You get it from walking with Him and realizing just what it is the Lord's done. Some need to go back and think when you first got saved, what a thrill it was to be a Christian. And you wanted everybody to know what the Lord had done for you. You wanted to tell them. You remember what Jesus said to that man of Gadera? He said, Go home and tell thy friends what great things the Lord hath done for thee. And there needs to be a telling. We need to let others know, hey, the Lord's done something for me, the Lord's doing some things in my life, and I want to give him the credit. Matthew drew a crowd around him. He reminds me of the woman at the well. She went into town and she just had to tell everybody. You got to come see a man who told me all things ever I did. Now the truth is he didn't tell her everything she'd ever done. But in her estimation, that's what it felt like when he started questioning her about her personal life, knowing he knew nothing about her, and he began to expose who she was. And listen, this woman was so excited that here was a man who had forgiven her and a man who had pardoned her, and she said, I I just gotta tell you what great things the Lord's done. Can I ask you something, my friend? Has the Lord done anything in your life? Has he saved you and pardoned you? Has he made a difference in your life? I think some folks need to cash in their church anity and get Christianity. They need to give up their uh their their their profession and get truly born again and be Let the Spirit of God save them and God change them and make them a a new Christian, a new creature, make something out of them that only he can make. What a what a thrill must have must have burned in his heart as he saw that house full. Of publicans and sinners. Now you say, what kind of sinners? I don't know. But I do know that the publicans were great friends with people that uh did things that were very wrong. They they profited off of things like prostitution and trafficking and things like that. And it's very possible that sitting in that crowd were men and women who were engaged in that sort of thing. This was not a place the average Christian of today would even consider giving any attention to. A friend of mine who went to Australia said that he was invited by a man by a joke. The man run a pub and he had this card game they played on Saturday night and he said uh uh you you you Christians you you you think you're better than us and all that he said why don't you come down and just see what it's all about. He said, I will if you'll let me talk. He said, Well come. And Brother Randy said he went down there and it and he said that card game turned into a Saturday night Bible study. And he said he he began to go and he said talk got over the town, very religious town, and they said that preacher goes to the card game down there at the pub every Saturday night. He said, Yes I do, and I preach Jesus to him. You say, what come of that? I'll tell you what come of that. He didn't go there and gamble, he didn't go there and drink, he didn't go there and condone their sin, but he did go there and tell them about Jesus. And I'll tell you what happened. God began to do a work. Three of those men became pastors in the country of Australia because there was a man who cared about publicans and sinners. I'm saying if we sit in our little insulated world and we don't care about the sinners around us, men and women are going to die and go to hell because simply we will not be tarnished by being in their presence. But I've got news for you. Jesus wasn't worried about getting anything on him. He was worried about giving something to them. Matthew wanted them there. He was concerned about souls. Number three, I want you to notice the revealing challenge. We find here in Matthew chapter 9 that there was great religious disgust. They were disgusted by Jesus. In verse 11, the Pharisees saw it. They said, unto his disciples, why eateth your master with publicans and sinners? If you'll read the other accounts, Matthew, uh or rather Mark says, How is it? That's that's how Mark wrote it. Luke says they murmured. That means they whispered under their breath. They murmured among themselves. What's Jesus doing here? Don't he know what kind of people he's in around? Don't he know what kind of and listen friend it's very easy. Let's be honest. It's very easy as Christians To forget the pit from whence we were dubbed. We can forget that, hey, but by the grace of God, do you know what kind of mess our life would be in? If God in mercy hadn't saved you, your life wouldn't be like it is right now. If God in his mercy hadn't saved you, your home wouldn't be like it is right now. There's not a one of us here can say I am what I am by my own effort. Here's what we can say, I am what I am by the grace of God. It's God's grace that rescued me and it's God's grace that that has redeemed my life from destruction. But here is a group of people and they're religiously disgusted. They're like a lot of Christians I know. If if someone who didn't look like them or smell like them or act like them were to come around, they would turn their noses in the air and turn away. I'm telling you, my friend, Jesus came to die for folks like that. He came to die for the religious proud, and he came to die for those ruined by sin. I'm glad he died for all mankind. They were disgusted. This was a revelation of self-righteous superiority. You know, they wouldn't dare say it because it sounds bad, but they thought it. We're better than them. We're better than them. We're not like that. Remember the man who stood and prayed so proudly? I'm glad I'm not like this publican. And he talked about how he tithed and how he fasted and how he did all these religious things. And and and he said, I'm I'm j I'm glad, Lord. I'm not like that man. Now, that was a pretty bold statement to make, but the truth is a lot of Christians get that attitude. You're not better than anybody who's living out here on the street somewhere simply because they're addicted to drugs or alcohol or some uh other thing. You there's nobody sitting here better than. Now you might be better off. Amen. You might be better off, and if you're saved, you are better off. But you're not better than. That soul's as precious to Jesus as your soul sitting here dressed up pretty, looking good on a Sunday morning. That soul's precious. Christ died for them. Matthew's conversion was going to lead to a revelation that the souls of men are what matters to the Lord. That that listen, this idea that we often have, he he he's only interested in the good, or he's only inter No, friend, listen, he loves sinners. He loves all sinners. And it don't matter what sin has marred their life, Jesus Christ died to pay for that sin. Here we find a very real accusation. And though it's not worded in this way, this is what they're saying. If he's really God, he wouldn't do this. God don't have time for people like that. That's what they thought. That's what they're saying. They're accusing Jesus, and they're saying He's not Messiah. If he's Messiah, why he wouldn't he wouldn't even walk among people like that. But you know what God's doing here? God's making it known who he really is. He's making himself known and saying, I'm a God of great mercy, that I love sinners, that lost people, people who are dying in degree in degradation. and are marred by the mark of sin. Those are the souls I love. And listen, I'll not only come and sit with them, one of these days I'm going to hang on a cross and die for 'em. I'm going to shed my blood so that they can be saved and washed from their sin. I would challenge you to study your New Testament and look at the people who are given attention in the scriptures. Look at the people that are highlighted by the Lord. Look at the characters that get the most, if you will, press in the scripture. Who is it that Jesus put a spotlight on? Well, a man named Matthew. A publican, a sinner A uh a harlot, a uh a woman with a bad reputation and name, and all sorts of others, the list would go on and on and on of individuals that we would turn our head away and say, Oh no, th th we don't have time for that. But I'll tell you, I'm glad Jesus has got time for that. I'm glad Jesus loves men and women who have ruined their lives in sin. And are laying in the alley broken somewhere. Jesus loves them enough that he would shed his blood to save them. Now he's not going to leave them in the mess he finds them. He'll sure surely bring them out. But I'll tell you, he loves them. He loves them to go to them. He loves them. He didn't care about the religious crowd being upset. Let them be upset. By the way, if you sit around waiting on s everybody to be on board, you'll never go nowhere. Somebody's always going to be upset When I surrendered to preach the word, I'll never forget. I I I thought everybody would be excited. Man, God had called me and and I made the announcement and said uh the Lord's called me to preach. I'm surrendering my life to do that And I had a delegation pay me a visit. They were the self-appointed spiritual aristocracy of the assembly. And they said, oh, this enthusiasm about the Lord, you know, you're going down there to that that Pritchard Park and preaching at that bus station where all the drunks and homeless people are. We shouldn't do that. And I said, why? They said, well, because they may come to church. I was like, duh. Isn't that the whole point? My wife and I, we were married shortly after and and uh God put it in our hearts to go into the projects in that area, the the the housing developments and bring children. I'll never forget we brought those children in And had Sunday school teachers who would stand the door and say, those kids can't come in here. And I said, what do you mean those kids can't? Now look, I I hear the gas blown. But we don't, we may not do that outwardly, but a lot of us got that attitude. And it amazed me that sinners weren't welcome in the house of God I'm just saying, my friend, that the Lord Jesus didn't die for you to have your neat little religion that you exercise here every Sunday. He died to save your soul from hell. He died to redeem your life from destruction. To take you out of the snatches of the uh of the claws of the enemy and to make a new creature out of you so that you could go back and say, Hey Jesus saves. Jesus saves. The answer is the Lord Jesus. Oh, they brought a very wicked accusation, but their preconceived ideas blinded them to the reality. Do you know they needed the same salvation that crowd did? The preacher that uh preached that message Payday Sunday. What's his name? Who was it? R. G. Lee. R. G. Lee. R. G. Lee pastored a very big church there in Tennessee. A very, very Um what shall I say? I'd call it a highbrow church. The upper crust And old Dr. Lee loved sinners. And he invited everybody to come. One Sunday morning this gentleman came in, you could tell he probably was on the streets. And not knowing the decorum of being in a church such as that, he walked all the way to the front. R. G. Lee's getting ready to preach. He's got up open his Bible. And he walked all the way to the front and he sat down in the floor cross-legged. And just sat there. You could hear just the murmurings and whisperings. We don't do that sort of thing around here. An old deacon who was on a cane got up way in the back and started his way down. Because of his infirmity, it took him a while to get there. And that church back then was built sort of on this structure, it was a long, one of those big long tunnel like churches. And it took him quite a while to get down there and as he came everybody's talking and nodding and agreeing, you know. I'm glad somebody's gonna take care of this Glad somebody's gonna set this man straight and everybody was expecting that he would go up there and chew him out and make him get up and sit decent or at least Maybe even leave or something like that. And they just all seemed to smirk in in great agreement as to what they were about to see. But much to their surprise, when that old man got close to where that boy was, he with great effort got down on the floor beside him. Sat down, crossed his legs, looked up to the preacher as if to say, Go ahead Brother Lee said, What I'm about to say you won't remember. But what you just witnessed, you'll never forget. That's the Spirit of Christ. That's the Lord Jesus. He loves sinners. Decorum and all of that is of no interest to our Lord. We can get so stuffy, we're stifling. We can get so religiously proper that we lose power with God. We can get so caught up in the practice of our spiritual decorum that there's no fire that comes out of heaven. And doesn't work in men's hearts. Oh God deliver us. Here we have a revelation of the Lord's way. In verse 12, our Lord says, when Jesus heard that, he said unto them, They that be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. But go ye and learn what that meaneth. I will have mercy and not sacrifice. For I am not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. You'll notice his calls here. He come for the sick. He come for the lost. Luke 19:10 says, For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. That's his interest. That's his cause. He's not interested in making you or me look good. He's not interested in us gaining some sort of societal standing. He's looking to save sinners. That's what he come for. That's his cause. He said to those, by the way, those men were just as sick as the rest of them, but they felt themselves to be well. And he said, I'm not interested in that crowd that don't understand their sickness. I don't have time for that crowd that's propping up their uh their uh fantasy by their self-righteous living. He didn't have time for that. He said, I'm here for the sick. Here are people that are sick. Here are people that are lost. Sin has marred them and sin has broken them. And listen, I want you to know I'm here for those crowds, that crowd. I'm the position of the soul. I'm the one who can save them. Not only do we see his cause, but look at that concern. He said, I'm concerned about mercy. I've often wondered why he said this this made this statement. About I will have mercy and not sacrifice. And then as I pondered this, I believe the reason is this: their religion was bound up in that sacrifice. Their religion revolved around that sacrifice. I sacrifice. I go to the temple. I observe proper religion. I go through all of the motions. And I'm telling you, this poor country is full of men and women who sit on church pews Sunday after Sunday. They carry Bibles, they sing hymns, they pray prayers, they do all of the things that people do, and yet they're lost without God. And all they have is a religious front. That's what they had here. And they're going through, and Jesus said, I'm not interested in that. That sacrifice is not atoning for sin. That being a member of a church doesn't atone for sin. That carrying a Bible and going to church, none of that atones for sin. Getting baptized don't atone for sin. Being a good person in your religious circle is not going to atone for your sin. There's one atonement. It's the blood of Jesus. He said, I'll have mercy. I'm here to show mercy. I'm not calling for sacrifice. I'm telling you, isn't it a wonder that our God is not a God who demands sacrifice? He's a God who made the sacrifice He was that great sacrifice? My. They were caught up in their religion. Here's Jesus. And by the way, like we learned last week, religion has nothing to offer. The real broken man laying in a ditch. Don't have anything to offer. Well, you get cleaned up, get straightened up. How many of you know there's time you can't clean yourself or straighten yourself up? Well, he he just needs to pull himself up by his own bootstraps. Well, let me get you to do an experiment. If you wear boots, grab a hold of your bootstraps and try to pick yourself up. See how far you're gonna get. Some of you will pass out before you reach the level of grabbing hold of 'em. Amen? Air's gone. I'll be among you But the reality is that Christ did not come to make good men better. He came to make dead men alive, lost men saved, broken men whole. Oh, that's the gospel. That's what Christ died for. That crowd sitting around picking and finding fault at Jesus, he never paid them no mind. He said, you need to go learn something. Boy, I imagine that stuck that proud crowd. You need to go learn something. Learn something about mercy. And then we see the call. He calls sinners to repentance. You know that that word here, it literally means to decide against yourself with God. Take sides against yourself with God. It's to recognize that I'm lost. You know why? Because God said so. And the hardest thing for a lost man to do is to admit he's lost. To just simply say, God, I'm lost. I I I may be a church member, I may be religious, I may do all of this, but I'm lost, and I need to be saved. I've got news for you. You'll not get saved until you first get lost. A preacher friend of mine said he got up one morning, he said, I'm gonna preach on Get Lost. He said, We come back Sunday night and he said, Everybody took me literal Sure enough. He said not a one of them rascals come back to church. Well, you need to get lost before you get saved. He's calling sinners to repentance. Side with God. God says we're lost. God says we're dead. God says, my sin has separated me from him. My sin is what nailed him on the old rugged cross. He says, Side with me, take God's side. When you take God's side against yourself, God stands up and gives mercy on your behalf. What a savior. Here's my Lord in an unlikely place, among an unlikely people, doing his work. He's saving and showing mercy and salvaging lives. And you know the sad thing is, a whole bunch of people missed it. They just missed it. They're looking for the Messiah. By the way, they prayed multiple times a day for Messiah to come. Their religion was structured in such a way that they were anticipating, here he is, he's here, he's working, he's saving, he's changing lives, and they hate him for it. Because he didn't fit in their box. Happy day when the Lord stepped in my life and stepped on my little box and blew it all to pieces. And my dear friend, if you're lost, you might be religiously lost, but you're lost You might be in the depths of despair and sin and your life ruined, it seems, but you're lost too. There's no levels of lostness A man without Christ is just lost. But Jesus came to save. And he'll save you, friend. He'll save any one of you. He'll save anybody that'll come to him and side with God against themselves. Friend, our Lord's mercy goes deeper than we can fathom. And our God's grace is greater than anyone here can imagine. You'll never look a sinner in their eye and see a soul Jesus didn't die for. You'll never run across a person so rotten that Jesus can't reach them. Never The gospel is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth. The gospel has great power to reach and change lives. It just needs to be preached. It just simply needs to be presented. There are people that you're going to rub shoulders with this week, and your first thought is: that person's not interested. Ask them. They might be. I witnessed to a gentleman for four years And it got to the point where I just give up, just gonna be honest. I didn't think the old man would ever get saved I'd go to his house. He was the politest old mountain man you ever met. He would sit in his chair next to the fire, his his wood stove, and he would sit there and we'd talk and he had a fire year round And so when I was going to visit his house, I made sure I had summer clothes. I don't care what part of the year it was. I don't he just was one of them old fellas kept him a fire going. And he would talk about his cows and he'd talk about his family and he'd talk about the weather. And then he would often say, I guess you're not here to talk about all that. And I said, No, sir. And I'd try to talk about the Lord. You know what he'd do? He'd turn his hearinade off, visibly, just and turn that old rocker around and look out the window. Now, how he knew when I was finished is beyond me because the minute I shut up and quit talking about the Lord, he'd turn his herin aid back on and turn back around. He did me that way every visit I made. He got sick and they put him in the hospital and I went up to see him. I'll never forget he'd turn that little frail body over in the bed, look against the wall, turn his hairinate off. He didn't want to hear about the Lord His daughter called his his daughter and and her husband. Her husband was my song leader. She called and said, Will you go see him at least one more time? And I said to her, I said, Mary Ellen, to be honest with you, that man don't listen. He don't want to hear it. She said, please just go talk to him one more time. They've told him he's he's got brain cancer, he's not got long to live. She said, maybe he'll be different. I said, well, I don't know. And to be honest with you, I drove all the way over there. He was in the other county. I drove to that major hospital And in my mind, here's what I thought. I'm gonna go in there, I'm gonna go to that room, he's gonna turn over in the bed, turn his urinate off, I'll s tell him the gospel He'll turn back over when I'm finished. I'll say, Hope you have a good evening, uh Leonard, and I'll walk out and that'll be it. And I went in that hospital with that attitude. And I remember as I walked in the room, he was there, he was looking, he said, Oh preacher, good to see you. I said, good to see you. I said, I hear you've got some bad news. Yeah, he said they told me it's not good. I said, well listen, you need the Lord. And I was just ready. I I actually stopped and just said, okay, he'll flop over in the bed and turn off his hearing aid. But when he said, I reckon I do, I about fell on the floor. And I'll be honest, I preached the gospel many times. I was struggling for words. I was so shocked, I was like, uh uh uh well it's like Lord help me to remember the gospel here And that dear old man asked the Lord to save him. You say, well, it was a deathbed conversion. Well, you know what God so kindly did? He let him live five more years. And those next five years he lived for the Lord, told everybody what the Lord had done, and he said, The greatest regret I have is that I waited so long. He said, Don't he get up and say, Don't be a stubborn old fool like me Trust Christ. He got real mean with them sometimes. But you know why? He realized that he had come that close to hell. I'm saved, my friend. Jesus saves sinners. And he'll save you. And maybe you'll look at somebody and say, Well, I don't know if they'll want to hear. Ask them. You might be shocked. We believe God directs his people, don't we? And I don't doubt he might put somebody highly unlikely in your path, and your mind's gonna be saying, Don't talk to them. Don't talk to them. That might be the one that they're going to hear the Lord say, Hey, follow me. Follow me. He can save anybody, anywhere, anytime. May the Lord help us to get a burden for those whom the Lord loves. Oh dear friend, if you're not saved, you can be today. This altar won't save you, kneeling won't save you, but Jesus will. And I urge you in a moment when we have our invitation, find you a place to pray. You can go out in the parking lot and pray. I don't care where you go pray. What matters is that you call on the Lord. And when you call on the Lord, know that He saves whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord. My dear brothers and sisters, may God prick our hearts and give us a fresh love for people that are lost. We live in a world that is starting to bear the visible marks of sin. People's bodies are mutilated because of sin. They're doing it to themselves. And lives are being just broken, and situations are becoming desperate. Jesus died for folk like that. May we get a love and a burden in a heart and say, oh God help me to carry the gospel to somebody. Help me to carry the gospel to that dear lost soul. It may be in my mind I'm saying they're not interested, but it may be that appointment that God has established. And it may be an opportunity you'll never forget to tell them about Christ and see them be saved. Oh, may God stir us. Would you stand with me?