And in Romans chapter five, I'm going to read in your hearing just verses three, four, and five. And I want you to notice what the scripture says. He tells us in verse 2 that we stand and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. And verse 3 begins, and not only so, but we glory in tribulations also, knowing that tribulation worketh patience. And patience experience and experience hope. And hope maketh not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts. By the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. If you will remember last Sunday morning we looked at Romans chapter 5, verses 1 and 2. And we looked at our perfect, perfect standing in the Lord. The Bible says, therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. I remind you this evening again that your standing in the Lord Jesus Christ is absolutely perfect. You are just as saved now as if you were already in heaven. You're as much a child of God now as you will be when He takes you by the hand. And lead you through the promised land. Right now. This very moment, your standing, the moment you got saved, your standing became absolutely complete. The hymn writer said, Complete in thee no work of mine. Dear Lord, can take the place of thine. I'm complete in thee. I'm complete in the Lord Jesus Christ. Our standing is absolutely perfect, but our state, that's what verses 3, 4, and 5 talk about. Our state is progressive. In other words, God's doing something in our lives. He's working in our lives. And I want to remind you tonight that as God is working, he's using tools that we necessarily would not choose. You know what he calls them? He calls them tribulation. Can I make a confession tonight? If if there was a sign up sheet, and we're kind of sign up sheet people around here There seems to be always a sign-up sheet on the back table for something. But if there was a sign-up sheet that said tribulations, put your name down here, I wouldn't put mine on the list Fact is, I'd try to hide that thing because I wouldn't want my name accidentally put on that list. But how many of you know that that's what God uses to make us what we ought to be? I want you to pray with me, and I I I pray our study's helpful. That that's the burden of my heart. Um as as your pastor, I know burdens that are being carried, know some of them. I certainly don't know all of them. But I know there's a great deal of things that are going on in people's lives tonight. I know there's a great deal of things that are being that are that are are are happening that are making us ask questions, making us wonder why perhaps things that are unpleasant, things that we would not choose at all. But I want to remind you that according to the word of God, God is doing something through those things. They're his tools. They're what he's chosen. And may the Lord help us. Father, we bow in Jesus' name and thank you for the privilege to pray. And Lord, as I bow my head before you, I'm asking, oh Lord, would you undertake for the great need of every heart in this place? Father, I pray you'd meet with us in a very special way. Bring comfort where comfort's needed. Lord, bring understanding where understanding's needed. And Lord, help us as your people just to be more like Jesus. Lord, we thank you for the privilege to pray. Fill our hearts, Lord, with your help. I pray that you'd help me to preach and help folk to hear and help us all to apply, Lord, your word. And for what you do, we'll praise you and thank you, Lord, for these few minutes. Hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus, and may you work mightily in our hearts. We'll praise you for it. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. When you read the Bible, do you ever read the Bible and say, now that sounds strange? I I know that, you know, we're good independent Baptists and we don't get that honest, but if we were that honest We would say that when he says, we glory in tribulation. I'll be honest with you, every time I read that, that's odd sounding language to me. The word tribulation as it's used here could represent any trial or trouble that comes our way, any disappointment or heartache. But may I remind you that's exactly what the Apostle Paul did. He gloried in tribulation. Look what he said over here in 2 Corinthians chapter number 12. He talks about this very same thing. He's been dealing with the physical ailment, and he's asked the Lord to take it away, and the Lord said, no, but I'm going to give you grace instead. And here's what he says in 2 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse number 9, he said most gladly, I'm reading the latter part. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore, listen to this, here's some more strange talking. Therefore, I take pleasure in infirmities In reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake. Listen to this: for when I am weak, then am I strong. This dear Christian was making a confession he had learned the key to taking uh trouble and putting it to work in his life. He had figured out that when he gloried in what God sent To help him, he got help. Not in the way that we often think. He said, It's when I'm weak, then am I strong. See, God's economy is so different than ours. We think when I'm strong, I'm strong. No, it's when I'm weak I'm strong because I'm leaning on the one who really is strong. Because when I I've got my feet knocked out from under me that I'm leaning on the everlasting arms and I find out what takes me by surprise don't ever take him by surprise. And what I certainly can't handle in and of myself, he's well able to handle. We glory in tribulation. And you say, preacher, well, how in the world does a person glory in tribulation? By the way, to glory in tribulation is a sign of real maturity. Well, notice what he says. He said, Not only so, but we glory in tribulation also. And what's the very next word? Do you see it in the Bible? What is it? Knowing. Knowing. How do I glory in tribulation? I need to know some things. And can I say to us tonight, church family, if we don't know this, the devil will have a heyday with us. There are some things you need to know, and knowing them will help you in your spiritual walk. See, salvation and and and a being a Christian doesn't mean you check your brains out at the door. Becoming a Christian doesn't mean that you take the intellect that God has given you and the faculties and the ability to reason and know. and just lay them aside and say, well, I just believe anything. No. It means that there's some things you know. You know what the Bible says. You Come to the understanding. You get the knowledge of it and you apply it in your life. And by that, God's able to help you to glory in tribulation. There's a couple of things I want to point out here tonight. I want you to notice first the patience. Notice that tribulation worketh patience. I'll never read that, never read that yet. Since this happened to me, that I don't remember being corrected. Um I was a young pastor, I'd only pastored about a month, and we had a prayer meeting. And I was beginning to learn that if you're going to be a pastor, you better be patient. And I was learning some of that the hard way, and so I said in a prayer meeting, I said, Church family, would you pray for me to be patient? And there was a dear old saint there, Sister Modena Miller, she's in heaven now. She had been a pastor's wife for about fifty some years, and her husband was in uh had gone to heaven and And uh she'd kind of sit where these dear ladies sit right here in our sanctuary, and she went, Don't do that, preacher. And I thought, what in the world? And I looked down at her and she said , Tribulation worketh patience. She said, You're asking God to send you trouble Well, I'll tell you, that made me stop my tracks. And I said, you know what? I'm not the brightest light bulb in this box, but I don't want trouble. I'm not going to invite it. I'm not going to ask for it. I just have to take what He decides to send. I don't want to sign up for no more Tribulation works patience. Tribulation is the only thing that can produce this characteristic. According to the Lord. When you think of patience, what do you think of? Well, you don't have to think, you have to go to the scripture. James 5 says Job is a picture. James chapter 5 is verse 10 and 11. He says, you know, consider those prophets and as an example of patience. And he said, Remember Job? And so we find in the Word of God that it's tribulation that works patience. What is patience? Patience is bearing up sweetly under a trial. How many of my brothers here hate to go shopping? There's a few honest fellas here. The rest of you would if you raise your hand if you get by with it. I don't like to shop. I especially don't like shopping my wife because she don't like to look at things I like to look at. I mean she's not got no interest in chainsaws or tan tools or things like that. She wants to look at them dresses, them frilly looking silly things. And they're pretty, but and but that's she wants to look at stuff like that My mother, I I'll tell you, I was thankful when my dad finally quit having to work on the weekends and I didn't have to go shopping with her on Saturday. I remember as a little boy, she loved to shop and never bought much, but she sure looked at a whole lot of things. And she would drag me around, and I'll tell you something, I had to endure it, but I wasn't very patient That means I wasn't very sweet under the situation. I didn't like it. I made sure everybody knew I didn't like it. I've learned that you can get out of shape if you do a few things. In a store. When the kids were little, they made us go if if I had to go in sometimes I we'd start playing hide and go seek in the r in the dress area. And it wouldn't be long, she'd say, take them kids to the car. And I say, Yes, ma'am, thank you very much. I'll be glad and happy to go. You know. Patience is bearing up sweetly. Under the trial. It's being able to endure that that is very difficult and perhaps even unfavorable. Let's go back in 2 Corinthians. Maybe you're still there. Look at all the things that Paul endured here. He talks about some things that he had to go through that was tribulation. Second Corinthians chapter 4. And Paul's just given a testimony, and he's saying in verse number 8, we are troubled on every side. That means Paul, when he looked forward, had trouble, looked backward, had trouble, looked left, he had trouble, looked right, he had trouble. There's just trouble everywhere he looked. There was all kinds of trouble. We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed. He said, We are perplexed. There's a whole lot of things he didn't understand. He didn't have the answer for. He said, I don't know what's going to be the outcome of this. I am perplexed. But look what it says: not in despair. Said, we're persecuted, but we're not forsaken. Cast down You want that I believe that word it it means from what I can understand it means that that that Paul had uh sort of been cut down, that he had lost some battles maybe, he had been broken and and been pushed down to the earth. There was some weights that were so heavy he couldn't hardly stand up under them, and I'm cast down, but I'm not destroyed. Always bearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our body. You know what God's doing here? God's doing something in Paul's life. Tribulation's working, patience. Tribulation's making us able to bear up sweetly under the trials. And can I just encourage you tonight as a as a Christian, if you're saved by the grace of God That the trials and the tribulations coming your way, God's using them. They have a purpose. God's doing something in that. And what He's doing is He's making us patient. I want you to notice the process that he uses. Dr. Phillips wrote, and I like his his process here, he said God's melting Mellowing, molding, and maturing. Do you see it in verse number four? He says, Patience, experience, that's tribulation works, patience. So we can say it like this, patience works experience, and experience works hope, and hope maketh not ashamed. Where does experience come from? It comes from going through tribulation. Where does hope come from? Hope comes from going through some things. Hope comes from this experience. You know, Job, when we think about Job, he was in three pairs of hands. First set of hands that God put Job in was the devil's hands. And it was at the hands of Satan that tribulation came. And you know what that brought him? That brought him patience. The next set of hands that he was put into were the hands of his friends. That's the bulk of the book Job was in the hands of his friends, and that's where his patience was tried, and that brought him experience. But it was in the hands of God that he finally landed, and it was at the hand of God he found hope. See, God was doing something in Job's life. He was taking the tribulation, working patience. Patience was working experience, and experience was working hope. And by the way, there's no shortcut through this process. I wish there were. As many trips as we made up back and forth, you know, I I was always uh you know, we I don't know how many times we made the trip 45, 46, 7 times, uh almost 2 ,800 miles, you know, we're we're traveling, and I was always looking for a shortcut. Now this was before GPS and so I would get my map and I'd study that map and I'd say now there's a shortcut. And we'd go down that road, and you know what we found out? That wasn't no shortcut. There's a reason people didn't travel that way We traveled one time on a road that was closed at the other end almost 12 miles. And you get the other end that's closed. You're like, gotta turn around and go back. That wasn't a shortcut. Can I say something to you tonight, brother and sister? There's no shortcuts in this thing. Tribulation works patience. Patience works experience. Experience works hope. God's using those things in our lives. And there's two things that happen when you go through the process and you begin to realize that yes, uh God is doing something in my trouble. He's working and making me patient. Working and giving me experience, and experience is giving me hope because after you go through some things, you have confidence number one in God's faithfulness. James 5. 11 says that these prophets and especially Job they learned something about the faithfulness of God. You don't know how faithful God is until that faithfulness is put to a test. How do we know he's a friend that sticks closer than a brother until he's the only friend you got? How do you know he's the lily of the valley until you gotta walk out in the deep part of that valley where the lily grows and blooms? It's utterly impossible to know the truth of the faithfulness of God until that faithfulness is put to the test. But experience says God is faithful. I think we need to be careful in the age that we're living in where we quarantine young people from old people. I'm going to tell you why. Because those older Christians, if they're the right kind of older Christians, they've got experience which has given them hope. And those younger Christians who don't have experience need to know there is hope. I'm thankful for the older preachers that God had put in my life as a young man because you know what they did? They by testimony said God is faithful. And they went through things and they would say to me in in very challenging times, you know what? God will see you through I had the privilege to uh be the pastor for my pastor for a period of time. As he came to my first church and helped me Uh his son had taken over the church there and he came and and was was helping me and I'll tell you what he did every time he talked to me he gave me hope He was a man who had served God faithfully for many years and been through trials and tribulations and faced a lot of difficulties and all of that. And he would always say, Son, God is faithful. I'd have something to say about things going on, and it would be the biggest, darkest cloud hanging over my head you could imagine, and he would just sweetly smile and say, But God is faithful. And at first, you know, as a young Christian, I sort of get aggravated. I said, couldn't he say something else? Couldn't he tell me how to get out of this and and tell me how to make it better and tell me things are going to be different. But he would just say, God is faithful. I look back now and say, Thank you, Lord, for somebody who was who was honest and who was faithful and who reminded me that you know what really matters in this? God is faithful. God's using all of those things and He's working in all those difficult things. Why? He's making us more like Himself. That process is part uh of the experience and that experience brings hope And it grows my confidence in God. If you've been saved any length of time, I trust you've got more confidence now than you've ever had in the Lord. You know why? Because he's brought you through some things. He's brought you through some difficulties. He's brought you through he's met needs. He's he's helped you in times uh of great trouble. And you can look back and you say, you know what, I remember when it looked like there was no way, but God made a way. And you look back and you say, Boy, I remember when it was pretty bad, but somehow another God got us through. And you look back And you say, you know what, I remember when uh it was a a a very dark and difficult place, but looking back now I realized God was still there. God was still good. I didn't see it then, but I know it now, and I realize that God did not fail me. Don't let your memory be short concerning the deliverances of the Lord. You know our churches, and I'm talking about our Baptist churches, once believed that our history was so important that they appointed members in the church to keep a record , written record. And they made sure that that record was kept to a T because they wanted the generations to come to know exactly what God had done. They wanted them to know that God was faithful, that God did some things in in in their assembly and for those families, and man, they would record all sorts of things. I was telling somebody the other night They closed a Presbyterian church in Spring Hill, Nova Scotia. And when they did, they called me and said, Would you be interested in any of the stuff? And I said, Well, what stuff do you have? And they said, well, we've got uh books, hymn books, Bibles, and uh we have a bunch of old records, and we're just gonna burn them if you don't want them. I said, Well I'm interested in them. And so I went down there and I got to clean out the office of that church And in the office of that church were records going back to the early 1700s. And it talked about things that God, there were notes that said had prayer meeting. Many young people wayward, ask God to save. And then you know what I rejoiced in? You might go a year or two years, three years, and you see many young people come into Christ. So and so is it has been born again. And it was an awesome thing to see the record of what God had done in that assembly and how God was working in those peoples. Here's what I'm trying to say. Don't forget what the Lord's done for you. Patience works uh tribulation works your patience, and patience brings you experience, but experience will put hope in your heart. Experience will say, you remember when God did? You remember how God delivered? How many times in the Psalms do we find the story told again and again and again how God brought them out of Egypt? I I would venture to say it's hundreds of times. Now remember the Red Sea parted and remember how how the Lord took us across on dry ground and remember how God fed us and remember how God clothed us. Why did he want them to remember that? Because God had done some things for them. It was intended to put hope in their hearts. God ever done anything for you? Oh my. We could be here for weeks if everybody had an opportunity to tell what the Lord's done. I mean to stand and say, you know, I remember when it looked like that there was there was this need and there was just no way it'd ever be met, and then here come the Lord. And you know what? When you get in a fresh trial, the devil wants you to forget all of God's deliverances. He wants you to somehow or another blot it out of your mind. That you've been in a place like this before. And maybe if you've not been in a place like that before, yet God in mercy has been faithful all the way home. And you know what? He's not going to change now. There may be a lot of things change. You change, everything changes, people change, but I'm glad to report to you tonight. God will not change. He's faithful. I'll tell you something else. This experience will grow in your heart. It's not only confidence towards God, but it will help you to grow compassion towards man. You know when you get to the end of this thing, Job's friends used and abused him. Somebody said if you had friends like Job, man, you wouldn't need an enemy. And that's true. They accused him of everything under the sun. You slowly read through the book of Job and you'll find out They pointed fingers and they have made accusations and they they they uh brought all sorts of uh uh of statements against him and said, You're guilty of this and you're guilty of that If you was really a clean, righteous man, you wouldn't be suffering like this. Man, they just got dirty and ugly. That youngest man who spoke, I I I really think some don't believe this, but I really think he spoke out of turn. He wisely spoke last, but he really shouldn't have spoken at all. And when he spoke, he began to say, now Job, listen, God wouldn't do this unless there was a purpose for it. You've got some kind of hidden evil in your life, and we're here to help you find it. Well, how you like that? Isn't that just what you need in a moment of difficulty? Somebody come and say now, I know why you're going through it My my pastor, the Pastor Meredith there, his dear wife, she had to have her knees replaced and she really suffered. She had a uh an arthritis disease and it it would just eat away at the joints in her body. And that dear lady hurt most of her life, had all sorts of surgeries, and there was a delegation from the church got together, three old church sisters, and they decided to pay her a visit, and their visit was to help her find the sin that was making her suffer so. They stood around her bed and said, Now Miss Ms Saxton, there must be something wrong with you or you wouldn't be suffering like this. There must be some sin in your life. And here's what they said, let us help you find it so you can get right with God. And that dear sister sat there with tears in her eyes and says, As best I know, my heart's right with the Lord. She said, I I don't know if any sinth there is, Lord, show me. And I'll confess it because I don't want anything to be between me and my Savior. And and I'll tell you what, that that's the kind of friends that Job had. But what I'm trying to say is that when he got to the end of his trial Do you remember what the Lord said? Pray for 'em. Pray for 'em. Can I be honest with you? I read the book of Job and I try to imagine in my mind what's going on, and the last thing I would want to do if I was Job was pray for him. I'd be tempted to say, now Lord, just let me put them in their place. Lord, just let me straighten them out, because they didn't have a clue what they were talking about. Wouldn't you, I mean, don't you feel that kind of righteous indignation inside of you and say, who are these two these fellows? And uh I like how the Lord said it, who is this that speaks without knowledge? Remember when he started? When the Lord started speaking? I mean the Lord kind of vindicated Job there. He said about those men, he said, Who is this that speaks without knowledge? Who in other words, who are these ignorant Ramuses that are talking so much? I don't know who they are. And then the Lord said, Job, I'll return your captivity when you pray for him. Job, I'm going to do something in your life that you've got to pray for him. You know what the Lord was teaching Job? He was teaching Job to be compassionate towards men. Please hear me now. We're all made of the same stuff. And it's not very impressive. And the reality is that it could be any one of us in a Joe Black situation at any moment in time. Job had to pray for those friends. You know, the tendency a man is, is when he's not suffering, he doesn't understand suffering. I visited a man, Garnet McAckran. He's in heaven now. Brother Garnett had uh he had a heart attack when he was 22 He had another when he was thirty-one. He had about five more, and then when I knew him, he had had seven or eight others. And I mean he had just suffered, suffered, suffered, suffered. And he was one of my first hospital visits. And when I went in there to sit down by Brother Garnett, we just began to talk, just to try to be compassionate. He had been really sick and he was weak. And he said, Preacher, can I tell you something? He said, some Christians really don't know how to act around people who suffer. He said, There's all kinds of people that come and see and talk to me. And he said, some of them come and they want to diagnose what's wrong. They want to straighten me out spiritually. He said there's others that come along and they they they just uh you know they they're kind of awkward and they don't know what to say, and he said so they're light-hearted and they sort of joke and make fun. And he said, none of that does any good. He said, but I'm learning that they are learning, and I am learning, and we're all growing, and we 've got to figure out that you know when someone's suffering Do you know sometimes the best thing you can say is nothing? Just be there. And I struggled with that as a young pastor. I I thought at every funeral and every bedside that I had to have a mouth full of words, and most of them were not very smart. And I thank God that he began to show me sometimes you just be there. Keep your mouth shut and pray. Just be there. These men sat with Job how many days before they ever spoke, and that was the best part of the whole account. It was when they opened their mouth that things went downhill. But God said, Job, you've got to pray for them. Job, I'm not going to take this thing away until you pray. And when Job began to pray, God began to bless him and restore him and return to him everything he took. Why? Because Job was learning to have compassion even on these men who weren't much of a friend. Tribulation works experience, experience works hope, and hope maketh not ashamed. Then I want you to notice the purpose. Verse 5 says. Because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto us. Here's a supernatural outcome. By the way, verse number five is the measure of maturity. What's happening here? God's working and the Holy Ghost is shedding abroad. That's a powerful d uh word there It's the idea of of something giving something off. He's shedding abroad the love of God by the Holy Ghost. In other words, as God's crushing that little vessel, there's something sweet coming out of it. I watched a dear lady get bone cancer, and as she as she died, she got sweeter and sweeter. She got closer to death. I mean, she was so full of God. It was like going to church when you walked in her hospital room. She just loved the Lord. Man, she had such a testimony, and all the nurses that took care of her said, That's the sweetest person I've ever met. And the more she suffered and the more she struggled, it was the more there was just more of a sweetness, and at her funeral The Lord reminded me of an illustration and I took a rose and I I took that rose and let that represent her life and I began to crush that thing at her funeral and I crushed that rose and crushed that rose And in that little sanctuary, I'm telling you what, you could smell it was one of those real strong smelling roses. Everybody in there could start smelling that rose, and that little thing was destroyed. And I laid it on top of her casket And I had back here in my pulpit, I had a brand new rose. And I pulled that out and I said, this is the way we've seen her go, but when we see her again, she'll be better than new. But the whole process that she went through revealed the sweetness of the Lord Jesus. You know what was happening? That that that shedding abroad of the love of God There was a working of the Holy Spirit. She became more tender. She became more yielded. And she became more like Jesus in the whole process. Isn't that our goal? Our goal is to be like Christ. And how was the Lord Jesus when reviled? He reviled not again? You know, we think of the height of Jesus' ministry. Was it when he had fed the 5,000? Was it when the multitudes followed him? No. The scripture says the height of his ministry was when he suffered and died on the cross. And it was on that cross they scoffed and mocked and jeered and cursed and spit and they ridiculed him, and yet it was from that cross he said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. That love of God was shed abroad in his heart. I'm saying to you that what's in you comes out of you when God puts you in the hot water. So, with that said, I want to leave you with these thoughts. Number one, we ought to view trouble from God's perspective. We often say, well, the devil sent it. Hold on a minute. You read this sometime. I'm not going to go there tonight, but Psalm 17, David's in a in a terrible place. His life is in danger. Men are cursing him. He's being shamed and all of this. And I don't know what period you put Psalm 17 in, but here's what he said. He said, Men are thy hand. You know what David testified to? Those wicked men that are doing me wrong, God, they're your hands working in my life. You're using them. You've sent 'em. We don't often see that, do we? We see men a and people that oppose us and do us wrong, and we look at them and we say, Man, if they'd just straightened up and stopped that And God may be saying, hey, I'm using them. See my hand in them? See my hand doing that work? I I'm behind all of this because I'm wanting to make you more like me. We've got to view trouble from God's perspective. It is, if I can say it like this, trouble is the workings of God. It's God's tool. Tribulation is one of the tools that he pulls out of the tool shed and says, now I'm going to work on you with this. It may not be the one we like to see. It may not be the one that we necessarily want, but it's what God's ordained to make us more like him. And he's saying here, recognize this and see it that way. So your heart don't get broken and your heart don't get So burdened down, and you don't get bitter against God. That leads me to the second statement. Submit to the Lord. Or let me put it like this be clay and don't become concrete. Let the Lord mold you. You say, but preacher, how many times have I got to go through this until you get the lesson? And say until I get the lesson. I mean, Lord, how many times does this have to occur? How many times does this have to come my way? I don't have the answer to that. But I do know this, that God's teaching and doing and working, and He's trying to make us more like Himself. And so He's going to continue to work until we're more like Christ. It's a whole lot better to be clay. You say, what does clay do? Clay is molded in the potter's hands. He's able to form it and fashion it and change it. Do you let the Lord change you? I find we're awful quick to say he needs to change. She needs to change. And God says, Well, you know who I'm concerned about? You. You need to change. My preacher friend who's in heaven, when I first came here, Dr. Ron Osteen, he said to me, he's down from down South Louisiana, and he started a work fifty years ago in New Brunswick, Canada, that birthed about A dozen churches that are still going today. Brother Osteen said, remember something, son He said, and he said it in his country way, he said, they ain't the problem. He said you is He said, the Lord's going to work on you. He said, you know what he's going to do? He's going to use them to work on you. And then he said this, don't get mad at them when God uses them to tune up you. That changed my notion. Because you see, we're so quick to say, well now I'll tell you what, if that fellow right there get that little speck out of his eye, and you know what God says? What about your bean? Well what what what about your your situation? Hey hey we we're quick we're quick and and listen understand this God's working on you God's working in us individually. Don't be concrete. Man, if you get hard and bitter against God, well, you're not going to get nowhere. There's a lot of Christians who were running well until they run into tribulation. I could write it look I could write a list right now that we rolled it out, it'd go to the back of that building. And I'm not exaggerating. And you know what happened? Tribulation and I it it was all kinds of sorts that came into their lives, and that tribulation they didn't stay like clay, they became like concrete, and they got shattered by the tribulation. And just said, that's enough. I don't want to be that kind of Christian. I want the Lord to be able to make me where I'm supposed to be Listen to me. The scripture tells us here, again, we need to seek here. He said the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts. Don't let the devil grow bitterness where God wants to bring a blessing. Don't let the devil grow bitterness where God wants to bring the blessing. You see, the cross brought a blessing to the world, did it not? It brought the salvation of mankind. It was from that cross being reviled and mocked and criticized and ridiculed and shame and a reproach to the world that Jesus bought forgiveness. And purchased our pardon. And it was there he declared, Father, forgive them and brought a blessing to us. What if the Creator, God, had been bitter? And said, I'll show them. Now I know we're we're trying to reason an impossibility because he can't sin. But had he not been forgiving and had he not shed abroad that love to the world as he died there at the hands of Godless men and even our sin, listen to me, it was there he displayed his love. It was there that he showed his love, and it was there he showed us how to love. Yeah, tribulation works patience, patience experience. Experience brings hope, and hope makes us not ashamed because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts. By the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. The most convincing testimony of the reality of our faith. Uh brother, sister, know this. It's not how loud you shout when things are going well. And I'm not against shouting, so don't take me out of context. I think we ought to do more of it, just to be honest with you. But the the measure of your spiritual maturity is not the loudness of your praise. It's not the legality of your walk. It's not the rules that you keep. You know what it is? Are you more like Jesus Christ? Is the love of God growing you? I heard it of it said of a man that he dripped with the love of God. Man, I want to be that man. Don't you want to be that way? That the love of God so consumed him and so controlled him. And you say, well, preacher, if everything was just better, listen to me. God don't use better. He uses tribulation. It's tribulation that he's working through and in. You say, preacher, I don't want trouble. Well I don't either, but let's make the best of what God sends and get something out of it rather than have to keep learning the same lesson over and over and over again. Do you ever read about Israel in the wilderness and say, Don't do that again? You've done it fifty times. Now you're doing it again. Because you know what's going to happen? Same old thing. You're back in the circle walking around. But I think we'd be better off we'd go to the mirror and say, What are you doing? You're back in that circle. You you're going you fifty times now, you know I'll tell you, the only way we can build be more like the Lord Jesus is let the Lord Jesus have his way. Have thine own way, Lord. Have thine own way. Thou art the potter. I'm the clay. Mold me and make me, here's the key, after thy will, while I am waiting. Yielded in steel. I'm told the dear lady who wrote that song wanted to be a missionary but was never able to go to the field. She wanted to go so badly that she nearly got bitter over the fact that God never allowed it. Until she sat in church one day and heard a message on submitting to the Lord, and when she heard that message, she was reminded that God was looking for her to be yielded to him and that he was the one in charge of her life. She wasn't writing the script, he was. And she said, well, have thine own way, Lord. And that became sort of the flood. And you know I thought about that She never left her hometown, never left her home church, never got to really do what she had wanted to do in her heart. But she wrote a song that how many times has that been sung? And God the Holy Ghost used it and said, Let me have my way. I wonder how many missionaries have gone to the field being pricked in their heart about letting God have his way. And here was a little girl that wanted to be a missionary, but God didn't permit it. It wasn't his will for her, but he let her write a song that God would use. And I'm telling you, in heaven, she may be quite shocked. I think she will be quite surprised at what God did through her submission to him. The pen of my life is not in my hands. I don't dream much. I told you when I eat pizza I do. But I've noticed something about when I dream. I'm about half awake. I don't know that I ever sleep deeply. But but when I'm dreaming and things are not going like they want to, I try to change my dream. Is anybody else like that? That's a control issue, I know. Forgive me. Pray for me. But I really do. I told Miss Emily for some reason I dreamed she came to get us. And uh me and Elizabeth and she was going to drive us somewhere. And man, she's I was scared to death. Jeremy is it can is that amen? And I'll tell you, I we were doing like a hundred miles an hour on this mountain road, and we were sideways and we were almost going off, and I'm over here crying and praying and and asking the Lord, Miss Liz in the back, she's enjoying it And and I'm just saying, Lord, please don't let us die. And the last thing I remember is we started and it looked like we were going to go off a cliff. And I remember shaking myself so I'd wake up because I didn't want to go off the cliff. So I've got to end this dream right here Going no further. Sometimes we like to think, man, we got this thing in or in charge I'm in charge of my life. I'm in charge of everything. But the truth of the matter is, there's an Almighty God who holds the pen of my life. And He's writing a story. And by the way, he's a good God. He don't write he does not write horror stories He writes Grace Field chapter. After chapter, after chapter Over every chapter of your life, if you're 70, 80, whatever age you are, he writes over every chapter of your life, the grace of God. The grace of God, the grace of God. Paul, he said, My grace is sufficient. I'm not taking this disease, I'm not taking this infirmity, but I'll tell you what I'm going to do, and we'll put grace in your life every day that you need it. I'm going to give you grace that is sufficient for every need. I'm going to give you grace for every trial. I'm going to give you just what you need right when you need it. Just when you think your tank's on empty, I'm going to come by and fill it up, because that's the kind of God I am And beloved, he'll do the same for you. All this starts with tribulation. And what a blessing to know that God's got a purpose. Look, you're not living some random experiment. There's divine design in all God does. Father, please use your word. I don't know what these dear people