I want you to take your Bible and go with me again to Isaiah chapter number 41. And I want to look at just a few verses here at the closing portion of the chapter. Or of the section that we read this morning. Isaiah chapter number 41. And let's go back and read beginning in verse number 15, and we'll read down to verse number 20. Isaiah chapter 41, beginning in verse number 15. The Bible says, Behold, I will make thee a new sharp threshing instrument having teeth. Thou shalt thresh the mountains and beat them small, and shalt make the hills as chaff. Thou shalt fan them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the whirlwind shall scatter them. And thou shalt rejoice in the Lord, and shalt glory in the Holy One of Israel. When the poor and needy seek water, And there is none, and their tongue faileth for thirst. I the Lord will hear them. I, the God of Israel, will not forsake them. I will open rivers and high places. And fountains in the midst of the valleys. I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, the shaitah tree, and the myrtle, and the oil tree. I will set in the desert the fir tree and the pine and the box tree together. That they may see and know and consider and understand together that the hand of the Lord hath done this. And the Holy One of Israel hath created it. This morning let me remind you that we looked at this chapter in light of its context. Isaiah is preaching and prophesying to a nation that is on the decline, a nation that is facing coming judgment. The nation of Israel would soon be swept away by the Assyrian army and be carried off as captives, as God had told them and forewarned them because of their sin. But yet, in the light of that, Isaiah reminded them that God had said some things that they needed to pay attention to and remember. Number one, God had said something about his purpose. And we looked at those verses in verses 8 and 9, how that God had a purpose in raising up the nation of Israel. And God has a purpose in all that he does. Secondly, we looked at the fact that God's presence would go with them, that there's nowhere you can go that God's presence is not there. Then tonight I want you to look at God's provision. And I may just single out some things here in the latter part of that section we just read, but we see God's provision for his people. Before we have a need, God has already made a provision. That's the God we serve The God we serve is not caught off guard nor surprised by anything that may arise in your life or mine. Someone said before we knew that we would need a drink of water, God had already provided the water. Before we need the bread of life, God's already provided the bread of life. And God's always providing in such a way. But we see something in particular here in three areas, and I'll just give these to you quickly. We see God's provision for battle God's saying some things here to a nation that just seems strange unless you really stop and think about it. Here is a people that are going to be conquered and carried away captive. And yet the Lord said, I will make thee a new sharp threshing instrument. In other words, he's talking about victory that they will have. This would not come in the lifetime of many of the people who first heard these words. But it would come, and there would be a victory that would be provided. I want to remind you this evening that there yes, there is a battle raging, and by the way, we're in a battle for the soul of this nation, we're in a battle uh on in our own spiritual lives. Everybody who's saved tonight, you are in a battle. You're fighting a battle with the flesh, the world, the devil. And uh you and I are engaged whether we want to be engaged or not There's no place for you to say, hey, I don't want to fight. I remain neutral. There's no neutral ground if you're saved by the grace of God. You're thrown in this thing. You're in this battle. But aren't you grateful that God is guaranteed a victory for his people? When you think about what he's saying here, he's telling us That he's going to make thee, he's going to make the the nation of Israel, he's going to make them a threshing instrument, having teeth They're going to beat down the mountains, as small the hills like chaff. They're going to fan them and drive them away. And then they're going to rejoice in the Lord and glory in the Holy One of Israel. He said, I want you to know that regardless of the battle, at the end, you're going to come out as an overcomer. You know, Paul was a conqueror while he sat in chains. Only Christians can be this way. Only saved people can be this way. While he was setting in prison, he was a free man. While he was in the chains of the Roman Emperor, he was still a conqueror. Look, the Bible tells me that we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. Victory, the song said Victory ahead. Well, there there is victory ahead. We're looking forward to a coming day of great victory, but if you're saved by the grace of God, there's victory now. And that victory's in the Lord Jesus. I want you to highlight these words. I will make thee. Those are four critical words. Because the victory that the nation of Israel obtained is not going to be a victory that they obtained through their own ability. It is the victory that is given through those whom God helps. We go back to what he said here in verse 14: Fear not, thou worm Jacob, and ye men of Israel. I will help thee, saith the Lord, and thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. You see the key, I said it this morning, I'll say it again, even worms win when God fights their battles. When God works in a people's lives like he works here, and like he works in his own, he works his children. Now, friend, listen, you and I are not fighting for victory. We're fighting from victory. We have victory in the Lord. Sometimes we sing the song around here, Victory in Jesus. Well look, it's it's more than a song found in the hymn book of our of our church. It's a reality for all of us who are saved. There is victory in the Lord. There's victory for you. It may be a battle with the flesh, it may be a battle with the world, it may be a battle with the enemy, but we're assured of victory in the Lord Jesus Christ. So we see the provision for battle. God's made provisions for battles. Do you know God's made provisions for battles you've not fought yet? And God's made provisions for battles you know nothing of. There are battles that that lie just ahead. How many of you have been saved long enough to have fought a few battles you didn't see coming in the beginning? You thought, man, listen, had you been made aware of that? You might have run hid somewhere. But God made a provision, didn't He? He made a provision for the battle that you were facing. So we see God's provision for battle. And then I want you to see God's provision of bounty. And this is just by way of introduction as we look at our text. Verses 17 and 18. Look what the Bible says when the poor and needy seek water, and there is none, and their tongue faileth for thirst. I, the Lord, will hear them. I, the God of Israel, will not forsake them. I will open rivers in high places, and fountains in the midst of the valleys. I will make the wilderness a pool of water and the dry land springs of water. I want you to notice here the persons that he identifies, the poor and needy. By the way, just because I'm his doesn't mean that I'm not going to deal with suffering or face need. You know, I think the little bit of prosperity gospel comes creeping in every once in a while when we don't rightly divide the word of truth and we think, well, look, I'm saved, so nothing bad's ever going to come my way. Hold on a minute. That's not what the Bible says. And that's not what the people of God have faced. You study your Bible and you'll find out that the many of God's people went through some fiery trials of life. They went through some deep and dark waters. You look at the prophets that we read about in the Word of God, and you'll find out that those men, my, how they suffered. Look at Jeremiah. Do you realize that Jeremiah spent a large part of his ministry imprisoned? And he was in a place of great suffering He was often ridiculed. Look at men like Ezekiel and others. These men would suffer just simply by being faithful John the Beloved, John himself, the longest living apostle, so far as we know, he was exiled on the Isle of Patmos. And historically we know boiled in oil, he was a man who suffered greatly. Why? For the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't think one minute that everything's going to go easy. Now, as I said this morning, I do believe the Lord will come in the rapture for the church before the tribulation. But that doesn't mean that I'll not face tribulation, not the tribulation, but tribulation. That doesn't mean that you and I are going to get a get out of jail free card. That there's going to be just smooth sailing between here and home. I heard a man preaching that way. Actually, this morning I was listening. I thought, buddy, I I don't know what Bible you've been reading But you make it sound like before everything gets bad, the Lord's going to take us out. And that's not what the Bible says. In fact, the indication is in Matthew 24 that a lot of that stuff's going to start Before the rapture occurs. And you and I are going to in in face, we're going to face and encounter a great deal of turmoil and troubles in this whole world. And are we not seeing all that unfold? You know, you think about the the power of the Antichrist to be able to control who buys and sells. Now unless that thing is in place, it's not it's not gonna happen like that. That thing's already I mean that's gonna have to be put in place, and by the way, there are places around the world that that system is already being initiated and utilized. the country of Australia is one of those. And there's there's a a push, there's a forced push to uh to uh digital currency and so As far as using cash and things like that, all of that's being taken away. And once that's done, then then you can control who buys and who sells. You and I may live in days or face things that we never thought we would. You and I may encounter uh difficulties that we never dreamed that we would begin to face as the people of God. But yet we have a promise in the Word of God. He says here that I will, notice, I will hear them, I, the God of Israel, will not forsake them. God has given you and me a promise in his word that has stood true through the ages and will stand true until the end of the age And God says, I'll hear you, I'll hear you when you call, and I will not forsake you. And I was thinking of this. Think of Hagar. And little Ishmael, as she's out in the desert, she's the bondwoman and has the child of the bondwoman. She has that child of bondage. Not a picture of Isaac, not a picture of promise, but the opposite, and that's what Hagar and little Ishmael were pictures of And yet, when that little baby was cast under a tree and expecting death because of a lack of water, the Bible says God heard his cry. And the God of heaven, who heard that little baby's cry, who was not a son of promise, in compassion provided water Now you tell me if God will do that for one that is not a child of his, what will he not do for you and I when he hears our plea and he said, I will not forsake you. So you can rest assured God will keep his promise. And then I want you to notice the provisions here. God says in verse 18, I will open rivers and high places. They're thirsty, says their tongue faileth, but yet God's going to open not just a river, Not just a water fountain. Man, he's going to open rivers, plural, in high places. And he's going to put fountains. Notice that. Fountains in the midst of the valleys. And he said, I will make the wilderness a pool of water and the dry land springs of water. Notice that he is able to reverse the very course of nature to provide for the needs of his people. Now God does that, and God can do that. You and I need to remember this evening as we think about the battles and we think about the bounty And we face the needs as as his people that God will take care of. That hymn, I love it. It's very dear to my heart. God will take care of you. God will. Many of you have been saved a long time, and you know what you can say? God will take care of you. Because God has taken care of you. God is faithful to take care of his own. I remember Dad talking about the Great Depression and living through those days. And I said, Dad, did you know that that the the world was or the country was in a place of depression? He said, no, everybody was in the same boat. It really didn't stand out. He said we were all poor. But he said, we had food. It may not have been uh uh it might not have been fancy fair, but he said it kept you alive. And you know why? Because God takes care. And church, you and I live in a time of plenty, but don't think for a moment that can't change in a moment. Just like that. Dr. James Stewart was preaching in Poland, and this was prior to the real hot battles of the Second World War. And Dr. Stewart said that the people of Poland had fared well for some time. They were there financially things seemed to be going in their favor, and he said, overnight their money became worthless. He was preaching a tent meeting. They had an outdoor meeting there in Warsaw. And he said as he was preaching, and uh he said the after about a week of of of this upheaval financially and the people began to realize that their their money was worthless. The Pastors said, Dr. Stewart, we would like to give you something, and they took up an offering. Now listen, I've never seen this happen. I've seen them take up offerings in chicken buckets. KFC buckets for the actually. But I had never seen them use wheelbarrels. Doctor Stewart said they pushed wheelbarrels, and they had wheelbarrels and wheelbarrels of money that they brought up there and said, take it. And then they laughed and said, you might get a dozen of eggs with it. But that happened practically overnight And you and I, listen, you and I may live in a world that may be upended before the rising of the sun. But aren't you glad to know that there's a God in heaven who can open rivers in high places? He can put fools in the wilderness, and he will provide for his own. That's because God is faithful. But now we come to my text, verse 19 and 20. And I want you to notice something here of God's provision of blessing. Notice what verse 19 says, I will plant in the wilderness. And then if you go on down, you'll see it says after the semicolon there, I will set in the desert. I want you to see something tonight about God's provision here in the wilderness and the desert. Notice, first off, with me the planting. God said, I will plant. Do you know God said, I'm going to put some things out there that are going to be for your good before you ever get there? I'm going to plant in the wilderness. Lord, we're not in the wilderness yet. No, but you're heading there. But I'm going to plant something out there for you. I I'm going to plant something in the desert. Lord, we're not in the desert. We're still living in our fine homes and we're still living in all of our comfort and ease. Oh no, but but but you will get there. You will get to the desert. And when you get to the desert, guess what? God said, I've already put something there for you. I remember that. You know, it's interesting to me that foraging has become a new fad. Do you know what that meant? That's what everybody used to do. But foraging is when you go out and you gather what's wild and plant you know what's there that you didn't plant that you benefit from And there's actually a site I follow, it's called Foraging Maryland. And I didn't know so many strange and weird things grew in this part of the world. And people go all over this all over the the the state foraging and picking different things, you know, plants and herbs and and fruits and nuts and things like that and and utilize them, you know In fact, I I meant to tell Brother Ben this is the interest to him. They were saying that they have found a grove of old chestnut trees on the tribal grounds of the Cherokee people in the state of North Carolina And uh it is not a uh a variant of the tree, it's the actual old trees. Because they noticed that they were bringing to these powwows uh this chestnut bread and someone said to one of the elders, where are you where are you getting your chestnuts? Are they the Chinese kind or whatever the the hybrids were? And they said, Oh no. Back up here in a hollow somewhere we go and we forage And they said, really, will you show us? And they found a grove of about 50 trees that are mature and have been producing for years. And they thought those trees were extinct. But but I said all that to say this. You and I can benefit from something that we did not have a hand in planting. And God said, I'm going to plant something in the wilderness, and I'm going to plant something in the desert that is going to be beneficial and necessary for you. Notice the planting, and then let me highlight the place before we get to the particulars. The place is the wilderness and the desert. The wilderness and the desert. By the way, when you read about wilderness in the Bible, it's a place of difficulty The wildernesses of the Bible are places of loneliness, places of struggle, places of battle. The deserts in the Bible are places of testing and temptation. The wilderness and the desert. And listen, every one of us will have a wilderness and a desert, and maybe both, and multiples of those before we get out of here. But yet God's already planted something in the wilderness and in the desert that is going to be for our good. You see, the Lord goes before us. Then notice these particulars. There are seven trees that God says I have planted. He says, I want you to know I put them there for you. I planted them so that you can benefit from them. And as you and I think about where we are right now, I want to remind you that all the wilderness may be coming for this nation and the deserts may be coming for us as a people. But I'm glad God's already been out there gardening for us. He's been making provisions and planting, and he's saying, I've already got something waiting on you. My dad and I used to go up to an orchard high up on a mountain and pick pick apples. They were called sheepnose apples. Those apples would stay uh they would keep through the winter. We've gone up there and dug them out from the snow and you could get the snow off of them, clean them off, put them in a basket, take them home, and they were just like you'd pick them in the fall of the year. It was an amazing thing and it was planted. We we really don't know who planted that orchard. Uh in fact, just on dad's eightieth birthday we climbed that mountain again and we found remnants of that orchard, a couple of trees that were still producing, and he picked them when he was a little boy, and his dad picked them when he was a little boy, and he said those trees have been feeding a whole lot of people for a long time. Somebody was looking down the road. Somebody was saying, you know, this is going to do more than benefit me This is going to benefit generations to come. Maybe not realizing just how far-reaching it would be, but I'm glad when God does the planting, he knows exactly who it's going to benefit. He knows exactly what generation is going to be to enter into the blessing of it. And so he plants these trees. Notice the trees. Number one, the cedar tree. He said, I'm going to plant the cedar. Someone said the cedar is the king of trees. It is considered a symbol of strength. In fact, the word cedar means firm. You know what the Bible is telling me here? God says, listen, Israel, you're going to be carried away into a foreign land, you're going to be kept captive, you're going to live in a wilderness, you're going to go through a desert, but I planted a cedar there for you. I've planted a symbol of strength. And every time you see that cedar standing strong, you'll know I'm the one that put it there, and I'll give you the same strength too. I'm glad in my wilderness is there's some cedar trees waiting on me. There's a cedar tree of God's scriptures that tell me he'll make me strong. There's the cedar tree of God's Spirit that dwells inside of me that shures me up and gives me strength to battle through. Thank God for the cedar trees that God plants on our behalf to make us strong. Notice quickly number two. We find the Shiva tree, or it's often called the Acacia tree This tree would have been used to build the, in fact, most of the furnishings and the tabernacle itself. It's often called the thorny tree. And I believe it speaks here of fellowship because that's what the tabernacle represented. It was God's presence among his people. God was there, and God said, Listen, I want you to know something. When you go into the desert in the wilderness, you might sit down under the acacia tree, but let me remind you that it is there I will fellowship with you The Apostle Paul said that I may know the fellowship of his sufferings. I'm glad that God doesn't leave me deserted in the wilderness and in the deserts of life. God doesn't walk away. Everybody else may walk away. This was a lonely place for Israel. It was as if the whole world turned against them, and they did. The whole world turned against them. I'll tell you something. When everybody else walks out, there's one who am who reabides faithful. He remains faithful. And you can have fellowship with the Lord when you have no contact with anybody else. Thank God for the acacia tree. It's also interesting, it's called the Thorny Tree. Someone said Although it was thorny, it produces an oil or a fruit that is is mashed or crushed that that produces an oil that is beneficial but it's bitter. It's bitter to the taste, but it's beneficial for the body. And you know there's a lot of things that are bitter to the taste, but are beneficial. Sometimes it's good for me to go through difficulties, although I don't like it. Sometimes it's good for me to face obstacles and go through deserts and wildernesses. And it may be bitter to the taste, but oh the blessing it brings. Someone said the thorny places bring out the fragrance of the rose of Sharon. And I'm grateful, my friend, that we can have fellowship with the Lord. And look, he's already planted the tree. He's already made the provision. You don't know the wilderness or the desert place you're heading towards, but he does, and he's put the trees there that you're going to need when you get there. Then notice next, he said he would plant the myrtle tree. That's the interesting thing. Uh the myrtle tree, as as we know it, doesn't get quite as large as it did there It was used in the, in fact, it's mentioned for the first time in the book of Nehemiah, chapter number 8, when they celebrated the Feast of Tabernacles, or what's sometimes called the Feast of Booths. And it was the myrtle tree that they would cut and form the booths that they dwelt in. And so it was during this time the myrtle tree would represent peace or a coming rule of Christ on the earth You see, those Jews would sit in those booths, and they would think about a coming kingdom when the glory of God would fill the earth and the king of heaven would rule and reign forever and ever. And they would anticipate the coming rule of our Lord. And my friend, I don't know about you, but there are times when there is no peace to be found from looking at what's happening around me. There's no peace to be found because of what's happening in me or to me. But when I look beyond me and I look to what the Lord's going to do one day, When the Prince of Peace comes, and he rules and reigns with a rod of iron, my friend, it brings me peace to know that the devil will be put down, evil will be rooted out, and the Lord Jesus will reign forever and ever and ever. Crawl up under that myrtle tree and praise God for his provision that one day, my friend, all will be well. Sometimes we need to recognize that what's ahead is a whole lot better than what we're in. Someone said, you know, I know the sweet by and by is coming. It's the nasty now and now that makes it so hard. But the truth is it's a sweet by and by that gets you through the nasty now and now. I had to have an unpleasant doctor's visit and He was doing something that my body didn't like and I didn't like. He seemed to enjoy, but I didn't care for what he's doing And he said, uh, here's what he said, he said, go to your happy place. I said, sir, my happy place ain't here. So pardon my bad English, but I'm not happy right now. And he said, well, just go there in your mind. And I I thought about that and I thought, you know what, there is a happy place for me. And if you're saved by God's grace, there's a happy day coming. There's a day going to come when all this filth and wickedness of the world will no longer be flaunted in front of your face. There's a day coming, my friend, when God's glory. Listen, there'll not be an ignorant person on the earth that doesn't know he's king, he's God, he's the Almighty All are going to worship before him. All are going to give him his praises. Like we looked at last Sunday evening, I believe it was, God's going to give a voice to the fish of the sea and the birds of the air. And everything's going to unite together and give glory to the God of heaven. Don't you look forward to that day? Wow, what a day that's going to be. You and I, if we're not careful, we'll forget the myrtle trees in our desert. We'll forget that there's a myrtle tree in our wilderness And all we'll see is the sand and the scorching heat, and we'll miss the fact that we have a soon-coming king. Then the Bible talks about an oil tree. And this tree, I believe, is the reference to the olive tree. A tree that speaks of prosperity. A tree that speaks of a sustainer of life, a symbol of God's blessing. And God says, I'm going to put the oil tree in the midst of the desert and in the wilderness for you, and so that you'll know that I'll bless you even though you're going through a battle. It's sort of like a little uh there in the book of um of Esther, or excuse me, Ruth. It's like Ruth as she's going along gleaning. And gleaning was the work of poor people. It was the leftovers in the land for people that were poor, and they came along and they picked it up. You know, I remember on the farm we would run over the outside four rows of all our crops. And I asked the boss why, I said, why do we do that? He said, I really don't know, but we've always done it. My daddy did it. And uh I I remember asking my dad about it. I said, why do they do that? He said, Well when I was a kid, he said that's what the the people that didn't have farmland would go out and they would harvest that, that the the machines would leave and they would live off of that. I thought, you know, my my dad said, Well if you can ever feed a horse, I'll let you buy your own. And so my neighbor had a big cornfield, and I said to my dad, I said, Do you think about two rows around that cornfield would feed him? He said it would. I said, All right, I'm getting one. He said, Well how are you going to feed him? I said, When he runs over it in the fall, I'm going to go out there and I'm going to cut it and put it up. And I did. I made corn shocks and gathered up my corn. That's how bad I wanted that thing. And uh and it fed her, it fed her. Smokey was her name, my first horse. Man, I I enjoyed that. But you know, here's here's Ruth. She's out there gleaning in the field. And uh the owner says, drop handfuls of purps. Just every once in a while, drop it on purpose. I'm not talking about leaving something accidentally behind. You purposefully say, here's a punch. And you know, it's interesting to me. She didn't catch on for a while. She's a little bit slow. Because when she came back home, she said, look what I I mean I really and and Naomi said, well, man, the Lord's really smiled on you. Where did you glean? And Naomi being older and wiser said, Oh, something's up. Somebody's leaving you something on purpose. Somebody's trying to woo you and win you. Hey, do you ever look around and say, God, you did that? Lord, you've just dropped a handful of purpose in my life. Lord, you just did something that had confirmed that I'm yours. Those blessings of God Aren't you glad for a God that does that? He's gone ahead of you and planted oil trees in the wilderness. Now I want you to notice there are three more found in the desert. He says in verse 19, I will set in the desert the fir tree and the pine and the box tree together. The fur in the Bible speaks of hope. In fact, fur was used to build many of the main structures that Solomon and others would use. But fur speaks of hope. It speaks of a future. That there is a future. Fur says there's future ahead, that this isn't the end. You know a desert often looks like a dead end, don't it? You ever been in one spiritually and thought, well, this will take me? I don't believe there's anything beyond this. I don't believe there's anything outside of this. This is going to be the end of the line. But you know those fir trees say, oh, don't don't give up yet. There's a future. And God plants a fir in your life. He plants a fir tree to let you know there is a future. And can I say to you, dear brother, sister in the Lord, your future is a whole lot better than your present? I mean when you stop and think about what lies ahead, we sing about it, we talk about it, we read about it, but one day we're going to experience it. One day we are going to go to a land where we'll never grow old. One day we will be in a place where no sin, sorrow, suffering, death, sickness will enter in. One day we will see the Lord Jesus who loved us and gave himself for us. One day we will join the chorus of heaven as we sing the praises of God and the Lamb forever and ever. That's all reality. And brother, sister, that's coming for you and I. Let those fir trees, and I believe those fir trees speak of the beautiful promises of God that we find on the pages of the Bible that say, Look ahead, look what lies up there. Remember Jesus said, I go to prepare a place for you And if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again to receive you unto myself, that where I am there you may be also. Oh, thank God for some fir trees in the Bible. And then he said I'm going to plant a pine tree. A pine tree. And the pine, oddly enough, we've got to get out of out of our culture and into the biblical culture. But the pine in the Bible speaks of beauty. In fact, it it was it was regarded as a as a plant of beauty, and it reminded them when they were taken down into To Babylon, and they were carried away by the Assyrians. It reminded them of the beauty of their homeland. It grew there in abundance. It grew in the desert. It grew in that region. And it it depicted the beauty of the land. Do you know something? When everything dies in the winter, the pine remains alive or appears alive, it's green and looks like it flourishes When everything else seems to be suffering under the cold swath of death, the the the reality is that that pine tree looks just as vibrant in the winter as it does in the in the spring and summer. It's a it's a picture of beauty. And you know it is only God who can bring beauty into the ugliness of the desert of the desert. There are things in our lives that are just downright ugly. And however you want to cut it or call it, it's just ugly. It's the ugliness of sin. It's the ugliness of the effects of sin. And it mars and scars. But God will put a pine tree in it God will put something there that says, you know, it may be ugly, but I'm able to plant beauty in the midst of this ugliness. When I see Solomon, I think of beauty in the midst of ugly. Solomon being the son of David in Bathsheba , a relationship that should have never been, but yet into that ugliness, God planted a beauty. See, only God can do that. Only the God of heaven can take something that was meant to be a tragedy and cause it to somehow or another be a means of triumph. Only the Lord can take something that was meant to be a destructive thing, a something that will destroy and bring down, and then God can use it to build up. Old Jacob, I see him sitting down there. He's an old man. His son, his favorite son, Joseph, seemingly has been killed by wild beasts. And now his next favorite son has been kept down in Egypt and he thinks all these things are against me. Look at him sitting there in the ugliness of life. And by the way, just because you're saved doesn't keep you from it. There's a lot of it to endure. There's a lot of it to endure. You know I had a fanciful notion when I first got saved that me and everybody would be happy I was saved. And I met some who weren't. And then when I first began to pastor, I thought everybody who's a Christian will want to do the right thing. And then I learned, not everybody does. And there's a lot of ugly mixed in life. But aren't you glad for a God who can take all of that and work it for our good? Watch Jacob, watch Jacob get the news. Hey Joseph's alive. He's alive. He's down in Egypt. He's alive. Dad, let's gather up our stuff and go. He's alive. And the very thing that Jacob said is against him. God turned it around and used it for him. And I still believe that God is able to take those things that appear to be against us and use them for us to bring blessings in our lives because God plants pine trees In the deserts of our lives. Then notice this next tree, the last tree. It's called the box tree. He says, I will plant in the wilderness the box tree. Now the box tree was a tree that always symbolized eternity. In fact, they lived to be quite old. They uh represented something that seemingly never died. And you know it's in the deserts of life that we find out what really has eternal value. It's in those deserts that you see the box tree and you're reminded that this world is not my home. I'm just a passing through. It's in the desert that you begin to realize that there are some things that are significant. You know the truth is sometimes what we what we get all upset about doesn't make a a hill of beans or a row of pens. Some of the things that really get us unnerved. I I could tell you tales, and there's no point to waste time, but I could tell you tales of people getting upset over things that when you compare it to eternity, it will not matter. Two milliseconds into eternity, that little thing is going to burn up in the oblivion of what's really important. And that little box tree, or sometimes these box trees were quite large because they lived for so long. These box trees stood as a symbol of eternal significance, those things that really matter. And folks listen, when you stop and think about it, there's only a few things that really matter. Number one, are you saved and going to heaven? That's eternal stuff. Number two, who are you taking with you? And when you put everything else around those, it it just really falls off and pales in comparison. We need to be reminded that God needs to put a box tree in our life every once in a while. Because if we're not careful, you know some we'll get all tore up. We'll get all out of sorts. Like my father-in-law used to say, we'll get her hat on backwards. That just means that she's out of sorts. And you know what? It's not about eternal matters. It's not of anything of eternal significance. It is in the deserts God will place us in. Listen, it was in the desert that Moses met the burning bush. And it was in the desert that Moses realized that God hadn't just put him there to be a shepherd, that there was a people he was to lead out. It was an eternal task. It was a task of eternal significance. Oftentimes God will put you in a desert and put me in a desert so that we'll see a box tree every now and then and we'll remember that eternal things are only the things that matter and that we need to live our lives for. I want you to see this. God said, I did all of that, verse 20, that they may see and know and consider. And understand together that the hand of the Lord hath done this, and the Holy One of Israel hath created it. Imagine those people walking through. They're walking through a desert and they say, look there, there's a cedar tree. That reminds me of the strength of God. God will give me strength in this desert. They walk a little further and they see the shaitan tree or the acacia tree, and they say, that tree, that reminds me of fellowship. I can even fellowship with God in the wilderness. Over there's a myrtle tree. And that myrtle tree reminds me that that the Lord has is going to come and He's going to rule. It gives me peace. There's an oil tree, one that we can profit from and enjoy the blessings of. There's a fir. There's hope. There's a pine, there's beauty, there's a box tree, there's eternity. God's done this. God's planted these trees. Hey, I didn't know I was coming this way, but God's put a tree here for me Can I take you one more tree and I'm done? There's a hill called Calvary. God planted a tree there. It was not a tree of beauty, it was not a tree that looked beneficial, it was a tree of death, sorrow, and suffering. And yet it would be a tree whereby the spring of eternal life would form, and out of that tree would flow the rivers of living water. So that every man, woman, boy, or girl could be saved by the marvelous grace of God. God planted a tree long before I needed the tree, and he provided a savior. The beauty of that tree was not the leaves or the fruit or the flower, but it was the lovely Lord Jesus who hung there and suffered and died on that cross. Thank God for the trees He's planted, even when I didn't know I was going that way, even though I didn't know I'd need that thing, God said, I'm going to put some trees out there for you, for you to enjoy and benefit from. Thank God for a God who makes provision for his people. I don't know what the future holds. I wouldn't be so foolish as to tell you. So many today think they've got it all figured out. And you know something, it doesn't take a generation hardly to make us understand. We didn't have it all figured out. But here's what I do know. I do know there's a God who goes into these wildernesses and deserts, and he plants the trees I'll need. And whatever's out there, whatever's before us, God's already made provision. And you and I can look and like like Isaiah said here, we'll see and know and understand that God hath done this. God did this. I'm grateful we serve such a God. My friend, we need to consider tonight what the hand of the Lord has done and will do. That the whole here he says, the Holy One of Israel hath created it. Listen, friend, you got a need in your life, it may be you're here or listening and you need to be saved. Look to the hill called Calvary. Look to the tree called the old rugged cross. Look to the Lamb of God who died in your place, paid your sin debt. You will not find salvation anywhere else. You might look, people look in churches and they look to people and they look to all these religious things, but the reality is Christ alone saves. Jesus saves. Jesus saves. He's the only Savior. Look to Him. And it may be, dear Christian friend, you're in that wilderness and desert. Instead of kicking the sand and the rocks, start looking for the trees that God's planted. For you to benefit from. Because God's bringing you by way. It's a way you've never known. It's it's a way that that you're unfamiliar with, but thank God He knows the way. He's gone this way before. He's a God who provides. Regardless of what comes to a nation, be it Israel or ours, there's a God who's faithful to provide for his people. Let's stand together, please.