Our God is a God of new beginnings. The Bible tells us that you must be born again. And God in his mercy tells us, for by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. It's not of works, lest any man should boast. Salvation is the beginning, and our God is a God of new beginnings. But let me say this: salvation is not the end. It literally is a beginning. It's a beginning of what God is going to do in your life. I want you to find two places in your Bible this morning, Hebrews 11, Exodus 2. In the New Testament, Hebrews 11. In the Old Testament, Exodus chapter 2. I want us to look at the way God worked in this man called Moses. And I want to preach for a few moments, the Lord helping me on God's working in a person's life. Now, I said and I want to say again that it all starts at salvation. You know when you began to live, if you're saved, that the moment you got saved, that's when you really began to live. You say, well, preacher, I was born January 4, 1973. Well, that may be the case. That's when you begin to live naturally. But let me ask you, when did you begin to live spiritually? When did you come to know the Lord Jesus? You see, we don't grow into salvation like we grow into a pair of shoes. We don't grow into becoming a Christian like you grow into adulthood. You are born in an instant of time. In a moment. And that moment is the moment that you recognize you're lost without God That you're dead in your trespasses in sin, and that Jesus Christ paid the sin debt in full and made a way for you to be born again. And he alone is the one you're trusting in. That's the moment you get saved. That's the moment you begin to live. That's the moment God is working in your life. And that's just the start. That's just the start. Thank God for the start. You're never gonna get nowhere if you don't start, right? Thank the Lord. I try to tell my family when we're going somewhere, let's get going. Okay, because you're never going to get there if you don't get going And so you got to get going, you've got to get moving, you've got to have a start. And the start for every one of us, and I would just challenge you as we begin to study this about the life of Moses. If you've never got started, if you've never been born again, today's a good day to be saved. Today's the day of salvation. Christ died for your sin. The Bible says that he shed his blood to put it away, to wash and make you clean. And he tells us that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. The gift of eternal life that the Lord Jesus gives is just that. It's a gift. Marinatha Baptist Church don't hold that gift in its hands. The waters of baptism don't hold that gift. Lighting candles and praying prayers don't hold that gift. Jesus holds that gift. Salvation comes through him. Salvation's a person. And I would urge you to trust him today, but when you do, get ready, buckle up. Because he's going to do something. He's going to be working in your life. Let's look at Hebrews 11 and start with me in verse number 24. The Bible says, by faith, Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, for he had respect under the recompense of the reward. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king. For he endured as seeing him who is invisible. Through faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them. By faith they passed through the Red Sea as by dry land, which the Egyptians, essaying to do, were drowned. Hebrews chapter eleven gives us a commentary on Exodus chapter two, three, and four. And we get insight as to the why behind what Moses did. I want you to think about Moses as an example of someone that God is working in their life. By the way, I want to remind you that God is no respecter of persons. You might read that and say, well, that's Moses, and I'm me. Well, know this, that whether you're Moses or me, it does not matter because God works in all men the same that allow him to work in their lives. The way in which God would work in our lives is the way in which God worked in Moses' life. And I want you to see that this morning. Now, Moses is a very prominent man in the Bible I find it interesting that outside of Abraham, he's given the most coverage in Hebrews 11. And outside of David, he's mentioned more times in the Old Testament than anyone else. 767 times the Old Testament makes reference to the man Moses. So he's a pretty prominent figure. You say, why did God make him prominent? God made him prominent because he wants to teach me something through him. He wants me to see there's something I can learn about the workings of God in a person's life. through this man Moses. So we're going to see that I pray this morning. Let's pray together and we'll begin. Father, how we thank you for the privilege to read the Word. There's a blessing in just doing that. But Lord, as we now take and try to give the sense, would you give us help? Lord, I pray that you'll hide me behind the cross, help me to lift up the Lord Jesus. Lord, as our brother mentioned in Sunday school, put a guard about my mouth. Help me to say everything that should be said, nothing that should not. I pray, dear Lord, that you would do a mighty work for your glory and your honor and for our good. For Lord, we need you. And we just look to you this morning and make that confession. Father, we need you. And we trust you now to meet those needs according to your riches and glory by Christ Jesus. For it's in Jesus' mighty name we pray. And God's people said Amen. Well, as we begin, I want to say a couple of things before I get to the message about Moses. I want you to notice that number one, a good home is a great advantage. A good home is a great advantage. When we start talking about Moses in verse 23, who do we start with? It says, by faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents. See , Moses saw God do some things in his life because Moses had a good home. Moses had a good home. You say, what kind of home did Moses have? Well, he obviously had a home where they lived by faith. You remember if you'll go back and and we're going to flip back and forth, so just kind of be ready. Back in Exodus chapter number two Pharaoh's getting rather concerned about the population of Jews that are feeling the Egyptian landscape. And he recognizes that we've got to do something about this because if we don't, they're going to overtake us. In fact, he makes the statement: they're more mightier than we. They were powerful people. And so he gives the commandment that they're to begin killing all the male children. I never noticed this until studying that passage, but he did not just give that commandment to the Jews, he gave it to everybody. Throughout the land of Egypt, he commanded all peoples. He said, We want all the male children put to death. Isn't it interesting when the devil's up to something? He starts working against the babies. He starts trying to murder the babies. That's what that's what's happening here. They're murdering the babies. And he said, I I I want them killed. But thank God for those midwives that said, uh, you know what, we'll put our neck on the line And we'll tell a story, we'll tell a lie to Pharaoh, we'll tell them that uh th those Hebrew women are so lively that before we get there, those babies are already born, and we can't do what you told us to do. I believe it pleases God to protect children. In fact, I find that the Bible says he gave them a house. Now, I don't understand all that that means, but I do believe it means that God was pleased with them and he poured out his blessing on them because they protected those babies. Moses' parents uh understood the decree. They were living under the threat, and I'm sure that if you didn't kill the children like the little baby boys, like they were commanded. that there had to be some retribution from Pharaoh, but they said, we don't care. We believe God. They saw in that little boy the potential of what God could do. How did they see it? They saw it by faith I don't believe Moses looked any different than any other little baby. I'm going to make some people mad. Don't get mad at me, please. But have you ever noticed how similar babies are? Most of them are bald-headed, not a tooth in their head, little round faces. I mean they're babies, right? And so I know your baby was the prettiest baby that was ever born. But but in in in reality they're just babies. They're and and and listen, when they saw Moses, Moses wasn't born with a halo on his head He wasn't born with an unusual glow about his skin. No, he was just a baby. And yet that those parents said God's got something in store. Would to God some men and women could see their children through the eyes of the Lord again. And recognize that God has plans for their children. That God wants to do something in their lives. This was a home of faith. But let me say something else about the home, just by introduction. This was a home of great courage. You know what they did? They said, we'll hide him for three months. Now can I ask you a question? Do you know how hard it is to hide a baby? Do you remember some of you how loud children are? Do you remember how much noise they can make? One time we were uh I I was on duty one Sunday morning, I I wanted Elizabeth to be able to set through a church service, so I don't remember Sarah was just little and I took her out and I went up in the balcony and and I thought I could listen to the preaching in the balcony. Well Sarah had other plans. And lo and behold, I don't know how she did it, but she spotted her mama way down there on the front row. And when she saw her, she started saying, Mama, mama, mama. She wanted her mama. I mean, Sarah was attached to her mother's hip for a long time. And I thought, what how how am I going? And I said, Sarah, be quiet. And she she wouldn't be quiet. She said, Mama, mama, mama. She wanted her mother. And and I could tell it was distractive. People were starting to look around, even down in the main floor. They were looking up Who's this kid? Who's this little pest up there hollering for mama? Well I made a mistake. I I I I just in the thoughts, you know, just quick, uh there's an old saying down the mountains, you know the hogs got them She didn't know what that meant. I just said, Sarah, the hogs got her. That's not your mama. And it was the end of the world. She cried, she pitched a fit. I went downstairs. I got an usher. I said, go get her mama quick And buddy, when she saw her mama, everything is okay. You don 't easily keep children hidden. But they did. Three months they hid that baby. That took some courage. That took courage on their part. By the way, you're not going to live for Christ and raise a family for Christ and build a home for Christ without a backbone. You're gonna have to have some courage. You're gonna have to s have some courage to say some to no to some things that are not good for your family and and say Yes to some things that are going to fly in the face of the culture. And so they had some courage. But not only that, it was a home of instruction. Do you remember how God blessed Moses ' mother? After uh after Pharaoh's daughter found the little boy. And she said, go go get go get someone to nurse and raise this child. Who did they go get? They went and got his mother. And Moses got the privilege to be raised under the instruction of his mother. How do you think Moses learned about the true God? He learned it from his mother. He learned it there in that home. I'm just saying a good home is a great advantage. You say, preacher, I didn't come from a good home. Well then make yours a good home Don't just keep saying, well, I'm just gonna do what I've always done. No, somebody's gotta break the cycle. Somebody's got to say, by God's grace, I'm going to have a good home. I'm going to raise my kids to know the Lord. I'm going to raise my kids to love the Lord. I'm going to be an influence for God. I'm going to do it right. I may not have come from a right home, but thank God I'm going to leave one behind. So a great a good home is a great advantage. Number two, just by way of introduction I want you to notice something else, that there are no accidents only appointments. No accidents. There's three times in Moses' life that you see the hand of God up to something The first time you see it's when he's put in a little uh basket and floated out into the bull rushes Have you ever read this scripture in verse number 6 of Exodus 2? It says, when she had opened it, that's that little basket his mama made, she saw the child, and watch this, and behold, the babe wept. At that moment. That little fella had been quiet up to that point. But now all of a sudden she opens it and she's looking at him, and that little thing starts to cry. And look at the next statement. And she had compassion on him. Folks, that's not an accident. That little baby did what was the most natural thing for a baby to do, and that's weep. But it did so at the command of God at the moment of time where her heart would be melted when she looked in that basket and saw that little baby. That was a divine appointment. I love what one old Scottish preacher said. He said, I believe God sent a wee angel down there and said, peach that baby. And he peached him at the right moment. Make him cry. Well, listen, that's not an accident. That was an appointment. God had something in store for this little boy. And the compassion of that woman's heart was stirred when she saw that little baby cry. The babe wept. Number two, we see another appointment. He was raised by his mother. Verse 9. Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away and nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages. And the woman took the child and nursed it. I love this. God let his mother raise this baby and made the devil pay the bill. She had to pay the wages. I like it when God makes the devil pay up. That's what's happening here. He had to she had to pay. She paid him to raise that child. Isn't that an appointment from the Lord? Now look, I think sometimes we miss a whole lot in life because we don't see God's appointments. We dismiss stuff and we say, well, that just happened. It just so happened It just you know, aren't we lucky? Burn that word. Banish that word. There's no such thing as luck. The old men when I grew up used to carry rabbits' feet around. And I'll be honest, I never understood it because I thought if that rabbit was as lucky as he as he claims to be, he'd still have his feet. Right? He'd still be running through the bushes with his feet on his own leg. He wouldn't be on the on the keychain of some old man walking through the mountains. I'm telling you, friend, listen, there's no such thing. God has appointments. God God doesn't let listen that this wasn't an accident that that uh she was called, that Moses ' mother was called to raise this baby. This was appointed of God And then I believe there's another one. Verse 10, the child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. And she called his name Moses. Moses was raised in all of the understanding of Pharaoh's house. He was raised with the access and with the uh the all of the doings of of Pharaoh's uh court and affairs. And so, how better to prepare a young man who's going to confront him down the road than a young man who grew up in his house? See, God was doing something. And can I say to you, you know, you say, well, I I I I there's things I don't like about my life. Well, perhaps God's got a plan for them. I read the story of a young lady who didn't like the color of her hair or eyes. She didn't want dark hair and dark eyes. She wanted to have uh a different color hair and different color eyes and and and it really was distressful to her. And later that young lady got saved, surrendered her life to the Lord, and the Lord called her to a mission field. And it was on that mission field she realized that she had the hair coloring and the eye coloring, even the skin tones of the people she was called to minister to. And during a great revolt, soldiers came through to kill all foreigners. And when they looked at her, they didn't see a foreigner. They saw someone who was just one of the other ladies. And they passed over her. She said, I realize then and there why God gave me the color of hair and the color of eyes I've got. You say, Do you think God's that detailed? I think God's that detailed. My Bible says he knows the number of the hairs on your head. And listen, if he knows the number, he's put every one of them there for a reason. There's no accidents, just appointments. Now, will you look with me here at Moses? I want you to see some things about how God works in a man's life. And when God's working in your life, here's what you can expect. And perhaps the first one's not what you think, but the first one I want you to see is that there will be disappointing moments. Disappointing moments. In chapter 2 of Exodus, verse 11, we read: It came to pass in those days when Moses was grown that he went out unto his brethren and looked on their burdens. And he spied an Egyptian smiting a Hebrew, one of his brethren, and he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that there was no man, he slew the Egyptian and hit him in the sand. Moses killed a man. Know what it says? He murdered a man And I know sometimes we try to qualify it and we say, well, he murdered an Egyptian. That's not what the Bible emphasizes when it comes to life. The Bible still says, thou shalt not kill. He took a man's life. Isn't it a disappointing thing when you uh when you read about Moses and all that that God was going to do that that he started off here's a disappointing thing And I want you to see something here. You say, why do you bring that up? I bring that up because God doesn't use perfect people. Because there are none. When our Lord so graciously confronted those men Who brought the woman taken in adultery, he said, He that is without sin, let him cast the first stone. And there wasn't a man there who had the ability to start throwing rocks. There's gonna be disappointing moments. You're gonna let the Lord down. But doesn't that make God's mercy so sweet? I'm grateful that the Bible says if we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Fast forward a little bit. Moses is on Sinai, and God's given him the law. In Exodus chapter 20, verse 12, here's what God said to Moses Thou shalt not kill. Reckon that stung a little. Moses broke the law. Folks, I'm saying that to say this: don't let disappointments derail you from what God may be doing in your life. Listen, God 's not through with any of us yet. The Bible says, being confident, he that hath begun a good work in you will what? Will perform it until the day of Christ Jesus. What he started, he's gonna finish. That you can count on. Years ago when I was pastoring up north, I was sitting in my office and the song leader came busting through the door and he's bawling and I'd never seen that. I thought maybe someone had died or something like that. And he said, I'm here to resign. I said, what'd you do? He said, I'm here. I can't leave the singing anymore. I can't be a member of this church anymore. He said, I really left the Lord down. I said, Gary, what in the world did you do? Preacher , he upset me and made me mad. I said, tell me, what did you do? And when he told me the story, I thought, well, how are we going to work through this? His neighbor had jumped on his son and and uh roughed him up a little bit. Gary took a shovel and knocked that fella cold. He just whacked him in the head and knocked him out And so we sat there and I said, Gary, that's awful. You need to go first apologize to him, and then we need to deal with this thing. He said, Go with me. So we get in a car and we weren't, I mean he just it was just around the corner and we run over there and that fellow's boys were out there in the yard. I guess they were ready for round two. And when he got out of the car, they weren't there for reconciliation. I'll tell you that. And I had to speak up and I said, fellas, hold on a minute. I said, I'm his pastor, and he's a Christian, and Christians don't act like this. And Gary went over there and got that fella. He's still rubbing his head where he got whacked. And he said, Would you forgive me? He said, I'm saved, and saved people shouldn't do that kind of stuff. He said, I'm so sorry, and he's weeping. Well, that old man's lost and he he don't know what's going on. He's looking at Gary saying, I well uh d it's okay. And I mean the man that he just knocked out's now patting him on the back trying to console him Prayer meeting night, Brother Gary got up and he said, Church, please pray for me and forgive me. We had an alter of prayer. Got around Gary and prayed for him. And you say, what'd he do? He went on leading and singing. He got right with God. He made it right. Folks, don't let the disappointments that come your way derail you. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all unrighteousness. Get your sin under the blood and go forward with Christ. Don't let the devil derail you. Number two, there's some decisive moments that'll come. There's some decisive moments that'll come. Will you jump back to Hebrews with me, Hebrews eleven? And there's a couple of things here Moses decided. In verse 24, he would he come to years, it says, he refused. To be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, for he had respect unto the recompense of the reward. Can I say this? Moses made some decisions, and those decisions made Moses. There were decisive moments. He he he he he decided I'm not going to be an Egyptian I'm raised in Pharaoh's house. I'm raised as Pharaoh's son. I believe that Moses was being raised as a successor. I believe he was being raised perhaps to be the next Pharaoh. I'm not going to identify with them. I'm going to identify with the people of God. Can I remind you what they were at that time? They were slaves. They were laboring under Pharaoh's command. It was not that he joined the cool kids. He didn't identify with the poplar crowd. He said, I want to be known as one of the people of God. He made a choice. My friend, listen, salvation's by grace, but there comes a place where you by faith must receive. As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. That's a decisive moment. When you become a Christian, that was a decisive moment. Whether you understand it or not, you'll never be what you once were. Never again. And and then there are other decisive moments. There's moments that that that you have got to uh do business, if you will, with God and make choices. He chose to suffer affliction. He esteemed the reproach of Christ. He said it's better to suffer and do right than it is to live in pleasure doing wrong. It's just better. I believe the ro reward of doing right is gonna far outweigh the rewards of doing wrong. That's a decisive moment. Some of you may be there, some of you may be at a crossroads and you're saying, Man, I've got to make my mind up about some things. And listen, you you be careful because your decisions will make you There's a way the Bible says this things right. But it ends in destruction A decisive moment. He had some decisive moments when when he chose to uh flee. Now it's interesting The Bible says that he left Egypt. He left Egypt because he had respect Under the recompense of the Lord, and he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who's invisible That's the commentary on what I just read when he killed the Egyptian and then fled because Pharaoh was angry and sought to kill him. It says that he left out of Egypt. He did not fear the wrath of the king, but he endured as seeing him who is invisible. In other words, it was more important to him to be loyal to God than it was to Pharaoh. That's a decisive moment. Now I hope you've had some and I hope you'll have some where you get you you get brought to the crossroads and and and your friend says, Hey, come party, and you say, No, I can't. I'm Christian. I I live for God now That's a decisive moment. As long as you undercover try to follow the Lord, you're not gonna get far. You need some decisive moments. There needs to be some decisive moments where you say, you know what, I know this is the right thing to do. And all the pressure and and and all the pushing is, don't do it, don't do it, don't do it, but I gotta do it because it's right. And so you make that that's a decisive moment. You need to make some decisive and by the way, I uh th those those moments may come daily. And then they may come sporadically. But whenever they come, the decision you make is going to make you. It's going to make you I'll never forget working a job. I was working on a dairy farm, and uh I I told the boss, I said, look, even before he ever hired me, Uh this is the farm we worked on when Elizabeth and I got married. I said, uh I'm I'm going to church. I I've got to be in church and I know we don't milk during church times. I know that And so I'll do all the work you want me to do until church time, then I'm going to church and I'll come back and I'll work more, but I'm then going to go back to church on Sunday night, and if I have to when I get off of church, I'll come back and finish my work And that bothered him. He was a professed Christian, too. I'll never forget we were putting round bells of hay out one Sunday afternoon, and he said, I guess you're going to church. I said, Yes, sir. Boy, he just lost his mind, and he was so angry, and I can still hear him cussing, and he said, you'll never amount to anything making that a priority in your life. And I thought, well, there's been a time or two I thought he was right as far as never amount to anything, but I'll tell you this, I've never regretted making that decision. There's a lot of things important in life but there's nothing nearer important as the Lord. Some of you have had those decisions. Some of you have decided, sometimes families have been involved, and you've made a decision, and it's caused a parting of ways. Oh, but listen, our loyalty to the Lord Jesus Christ is first And those decisive moments will make you, or those decisive moments will break you. They'll mar your testimony, or they'll make your testimony. He had some decisive moments. You know what these decisive moments revealed? They revealed the condition of his heart. That's what it said. It said Moses wants to please God. Our decisions often are a reflection of where our hearts are at. It's true with Moses and it's true with us. Can I give you something else? I believe there are divine moments. There are moments in our lives when God does things that only God can do. And there are those moments that you look back and you realize that, oh, how good God is. Like brother was saying, I I I wanted to stay behind him there and do some extra bootleg preaching. Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. Taste and see. Look, I could get up here and tell you how good Moose Track's ice cream is all day long. It's extra good to me now these days that I'm forbidden to eat it. But that's not going to do a thing for you until you take a big old scoop of it and put it in your mouth. And you know what you're going to do? You're going to say there, ooh, you were right, preacher. That was good stuff. That's good stuff. Taste and see that the Lord is good. And Moses had some moments where he tasted, hey, this is the Lord's working. Can I give you a few of them? I believe the first one came when he when Zepporah became his wife. The Bible tells us back there in Exodus 2 that the priest of Midian gave his daughter Zippor to be his wife. You say, why is that a divine moment? Do you realize she saved his life a few chapters later? Exodus chapter 4, Moses is on his way, and you know what he's going to do? He's going to lead the people of Israel out, and he's not obeyed God, and God met him, and the Bible says was going to kill him. Because he hadn't circumcised his son. Who did it? Who circumcised the boy? Zipporah did. And the Bible says when God saw it, he didn't kill him. So I'm not going to kill you now. She saved his life. That was a divine moment. That was God's doing. Can I show you another one? Here's another one. He's on the back side of the desert, chapter 3, verse 1. He's at the Mount of God. What's he doing? He's leading a bunch of sheep, his his father-in-law's sheep. He's leading them around so they can graze Little did he know he's about to meet the Lord. It was going to be a divine moment. Listen, if you've been saved a while and tried to live for the Lord, have you ever been in a service where it was one of those moments And and and it was just an ordinary service, just regular Lord's Day perhaps, and you were in God's house, and boy, God spoke to you and did some things in your life, and you say, I'll never be the same. Those are divine moments. I I can still hear Brother Ralph say, if you're born in the fire, you'll never be able to handle the smoke. By that he meant you can't stand cold religion. If God does some things in your life, there are some things that'll mark you forever, and you'll never be the same. Those are divine moments. And then when the Lord appeared to him and spoke out of the burning bush, that was a divine moment. That was a moment that God gave instruction, direction. and and and insight to Moses and and I think it was one of those moments when everything come together. Now I know what all this was about. Now I know, look, all those years, eighty previous years, now all of a sudden come to a funnel and he says, That's what you're up to. It was a divine moment. Now, folks, listen, we need some divine moments in our lives where God's working. Where we have to say, too much of our Christianity doc was Uh, Hitchens was told about it in Sunday school. Too much of our Christianity is religion. It's just religiosity. It's just the outward show of uh uh formality and and and and attachment to something rather than a transformative work of God Almighty When God saves a man, he doesn't leave him the same. He'll take you like you are, but he won't leave you like he found you. He'll take you just like you are. He don't make any requirements except come. And when you come, he'll make you a new creature. He'll change your life. There are divine moments. But I just, to be faithful to the scripture, I want to say this in closing. Moses had some obstacles he had to overcome. Even though he had come through the disappointing moment, he had gotten through the decisive moments, he had gotten to the divine moments, he had some difficulties to overcome. You say, What are they? Mark them down. Exodus 3, verse 11. He says, Who am I? You know what he's saying? I'm not worthy, Lord. The Lord said, Moses, I want you to go lead the children of Israel out, and I'm going to make you stand before Pharaoh, and you're going to deliver this great people. And he's, Moses , who am I? I'm not anyone that is worthy. And by the way, that's not the same tone young Moses had when he killed the Egyptian. That took 40 years of wilderness work to get him to the place where he understood he's nothing. But I'll tell you what, a nothing with God It's it listen, there's no limit to what God can do with the nothing. God specializes in taking nobodies and doing something with them. Now those su those th those somebodies, those who think there's something, I I believe as Vance Habner said they're like hummingbirds sitting on an eagle's nest. They're just a little bit out of place. And listen, there are some hummingbirds sitting on eagle's nests, but listen, God's got a place for the nobody. God has a place for the men and women who realize, look, I'm not worthy. I'm nothing, but oh Lord, here I am, what I am you can have, all that I am you can have. But he had to overcome that. You know what that takes? It takes surrender. He had to overcome the opinions of others. You know what he argued? He said, What if they don't believe me? Now Moses knew them. He knew their tendency to unbelief. He said, What if they don't believe me? God said, You go and I'll be with you and I'll show. And I like that that He said, I am with thee. You go, I'll be with Thee But he said, I'm going to do some things. And he and he remember he transformed the rod and he caused his hand to be leprous and then he put it in his coat or his cloak and his And and it would come out clean again and and and uh he turned the the water into blood. He said, You do that. All of this will show that that they Uh that that they'll believe you if you'll go show these signs. But you know when I read that I thought an evil and an adulterous generation seeketh after a sign. And that was true about Israel. But also read over there when he told them, it says he called the elders of Israel together and he told them what God had said. Do you know it emphatically says in the latter part of chapter 4 that they believed him? See, he is all worked up about their opinions and he hadn't even heard it yet. I think sometimes we let the opinions of others take up too much space in our heads. And we'd be surprised how little opinion they might have about us. You would be surprised, but listen, it matters not whether they have an opinion or not, if God has uh is doing some things Don't let the opinions of others shut you down. Don't let somebody else uh, you know, oh long-nosed critical thought Listen, I I'm I'm thankful for God's working in people's lives, but I'll tell you what, every time that starts, there's always a wet blanket somewhere. Shake it off. Shake it off. I read an old story where a farmer's mule fell in the well and he decided the best thing to do is just bury him. And so he started throwing dirt down the well. And before long, that old mule's right near the surface and he just stepped out. He said, How'd that happen? Now again, it's a story. The old mule said, I just kept shaking the dirt off every time you threw it down, stepped up on it Well, it may be a story, but sometimes you've got to shake a dirt off and just step on up. Stop listening to people's opinions and thoughts and ideas. If God's doing something in your life, let God do it. And don't let some old cold half-dead backslid mossy back Baptist shut you down. Just say, God, I'm gonna go with you, I'm gonna follow you. It it it may curl their nose and it may upset them. But listen, don't don't be ugly about it, but just keep on doing right and live for the Lord, because what matters is are you pleasing him? Are you pleasing him? Had to overcome that. By the way, quickly here, he had to overcome some physical limitations And I'm talking about the regards to his speech in Exodus 4. 10. He talked about, he said, now since you've spoken to me, I think Moses thought that if God was going to send him, that God would heal his speech. That God would make his make his tongue. to say, I'm not capable of doing this. And you know what the Lord told him? I'm with thee. And he asked him , who do you think forms the blind and the deaf? Who who is it do you think that that makes all of the uh the the physical bodies and and and and and makes us just the way they are? You say, you mean God even has a purpose for some physical limitation that I might have? Yes, God can even use those. I remember hearing a dear brother preach that had cerebral palsy. And he would get up and he would say, I've got cerebral palsy. What's your problem? And he'd preach. And he'd preach good. Now you had to listen and and often he would say, he said, You know why you have to listen so hard? He said, Because it's so difficult for me to speak. He said, But you listen, don't you? See, he began to realize that God had a purpose in all that. I think sometimes we get so busy trying to tell God what we think uh, you know, He He ought to know about us. And and f and forget that he's the one who made us and we just need to surrender ourselves to the Lord and let him have his way. Man, if you walk with a limp, limp for Jesus. If you can't see, can't see for G whatever you do. Look how many of our hymns are we blessed by from a woman whose eyes were taken in youth? And listen, I don't think, and she even made the statement that she don't think that she did not think that she would have written those hymns had that vision not been taken. See, God has a plan. God has a purpose in everything that He does. And often our our difficulties or our physical limitations, we say, Lord, I can't. Well, how about putting the ICANN in the hand of the Lord and see what the Lord can do? God's took a whole lot of ICANNS and done a whole lot of big things. And then what about his personal sin? You see, again in chapter 4, I've mentioned this already. He didn't obey the Lord fully. Because his son was uncircumcised, and so he 's he's on his way to Egypt, and God meets him and says, I'm going to kill you, Moses, because you hadn't obeyed me. He had to get that right, and thank God for Zipporah that helped him do that. But I believe he got it right with the Lord. And oftentimes, listen, friend, as long as you live in this flesh, you're going to fight flesh. I purposed many years ago not to portray something that's not true. I sat under a lot of men who preached as if they were perfect and never failed. And it it really made a struggle in my heart because I that wasn't what's real. And you know, and I know that we still live in this body of flesh. And as long as we live in this body of flesh We're going to have to get right with God and get sin under the blood and confess it before the Lord and get clean and do right. And we're going to have to deal with it as long as we live in the flesh. I asked Brother Ralph one time, I said, Do you get to a place where the flesh don't bother you? And he chuckled. He said, No, he said the bad thing about flesh, it gets older and meaner. And a whole lot sneakier. So it's a little harder to detect, and he said it 's just the truth. He said, son, till you lay your armor down, you're going to fight that flesh. Till you lay it down. But thank God for the Spirit of God who indwells us, and the word of God that instructs us. And the blood of Christ that cleanses us, and the help of God that makes us more than overcomers. Thank God we can overcome the difficulties. Do you know God had the answer for all of his difficulties? Everything Moses put up there and said, Now Lord, I can't do it because God said, Yes, you can, here's why. And it's still true today. Oftentimes we'll say, now God, I can, or we can't, or this can't. And the Lord says, listen to me, I got the answer. Got the answer. How's God working in your life? What is it He's doing? Are there some decisive moments? Perhaps this is one here this morning. There's some things God's brought you to a crossroads and he's saying, now follow me. It may be this morning, if you're not if you're here or you're listening to the broadcast and you're not saved. Here is what today is, God's working in your life to bring you to Himself, to save you by His grace. I don't believe it's an accident you've heard the gospel repeated. I don't believe it's an accident that we've been given another opportunity. Today's the day of salvation. Don't put off. Listen, friend, you you be careful what you do with the Lord Jesus because one day Jesus is going to do something with you. Trust him. Cry out to him. Oh, I'm glad I can stand with great boldness in my heart and tell you that no plea for mercy will go ignored. He'll not turn a deaf ear or a blind eye. What let a sinner cry out for mercy, and there's God on the scene to extend mercy and grace and to save them and to cleanse them. He'll do that for you right now. But dear believer, what's the Lord doing in your life? Maybe you've come through a disappointment. Don't let it derail you. Maybe you need a divine moment and just meet with God. I love what James teaches me. If I draw nigh to God, he'll draw nigh to me. What is it he's doing? He's doing something. That I'm sure of. If you're saved, he's doing something in your life. The most important thing you'll pay attention to in this world It's what God is doing in you and what God wants to do through you. That's the most important thing. What's he doing? Let him have his way. Would you stand with me, please?