And we thank God for that. I want you to open your Bibles please to the book of Genesis, Genesis chapter number one, and I'll join you there in just a minute. I want to read a couple of places from the New Testament. But go to Genesis chapter number one. And I'm going to read here from the New Testament in 2 Timothy. Chapter number three, Second Timothy chapter number three, and I want to remind you of something that I'm sure you you know very well. And it's something that I pray is cemented in your heart, and that is that God's word is just that. It is God's word. What we read this morning is not the opinion of man or the ideas of intelligent individuals. But it is a revelation from God Himself. The Bible is God communicating something And communicating to us. And I think we need to be reminded of that at times, that this Bible is a book like no other. That it has something to say from someone I need to listen to. And I want you to notice this. I'll read just please hear these words. All scripture Is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. Now, I want you to hear that. All scriptures given by inspiration of God. God breathed his word. And you and I have not just the concepts of truth, but we have the very truth of God itself in his precious word. 2 Peter chapter 1 is the next place I'll read. And the Bible says this, and verse number 18, and this voice which came from heaven we heard. When we were with him in the Holy Mount, we have also a more sure word of prophecy. More sure than this audible voice is what Peter is declaring here. Whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place. Until the day dawn and the day star arise in your hearts. Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. Now you can say about a lot of things that that's just someone's opinion. You can say that about a lot of things. You can say that about a lot of writings. You can say that about a uh uh a lot of uh things that you might hear in a in media form. That that is just their opinion. But when you and I read the Bible, we need to remember that we're not reading someone's opinion. We're not reading just something that, you know, Peter said, this sounds good. Let's write this. The Bible says that they were moved by the Holy Ghost. That God dictated, if you will, the words to be written In the Bible. And so with that in mind now, I want you to go back to Genesis. You're there, I trust, in Genesis chapter number one. And let me read beginning in verse number 26. Genesis chapter number one and verse number 26. And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth. And over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him. Male and female created he them. And God blessed them. And God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth and subdue it. And have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth. And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree, yielding seed, to you it shall be for meat. And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to everything that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is life, I have given every green herb for meat, and it was so And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day. I pray this morning that the familiarity of what we've read and we'll cover will not just Be passed over or be dismissed. But may we take to heart what the Lord's saying to us and communicating to us through His Word. Let's have a word of prayer and ask for the Lord's help. Our Heavenly Father, as we bow in Jesus' name, we want to thank you for this opportunity to be gathered here in this place. Father, thank you for your greatness. We were reminded in the hymn this morning how great thou art. Lord, I want to thank you that your greatness was demonstrated through the Lord Jesus by way of Calvary through the empty tomb. Given in that promise of eternal life, that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Lord, we bow our unworthy heads and hearts and Cry out, O Lord, what is man that thou art mindful of him? Lord, who are we that you would do such a thing for? That you would give your Son. Thank you, Father. Thank you for the opportunity we have to gather here and worship, and now hear your word. Would you please help us once more Lord, we acknowledge that without you we can do nothing. And we acknowledge, O Lord, that unless you speak to our hearts, we'll have gained no profit from gathering. But Lord, we trust that you will take your word and by your spirit work to your great glory and honor. Lord, we love you, and we can only say that because you loved us first. And Lord, I thank you that you love us most. Oh, what great love! Greater love hath no man than this. Lord, you lay down your life for us. Thank you for your great love. And Lord, do thy work in our hearts for your glory. We humbly pray in Jesus' name and God's people said. I've read to you something this morning that I believe is absolutely critical that we get fixed in our hearts and minds. And that namely is this that this is God's blueprint. Have you ever thought about the Bible as being a blueprint? How many of you familiar with blueprints? You ever work with them? And perhaps uh in construction or plumbing or electrical or in some other way you've taken a blueprint And you've looked at it and you've built something or constructed something by using that blueprint. Now, how many of you know that blueprints aren't just suggestions? Anybody know that? You get a set of blueprints, they're not there to just kind of be a good guidance in case you get lost doing your own thing. They are the absolutes. I had my first encounter with Blueprints. We put a a uh handicap ramp on the church in Canada. And we went to the permit office and the gentleman who was tasked with building this had drawn out what we were going to build on a piece of paper. And when we sat down in the inspector's office, he said, What do you plan to build? He pulled his little paper out, he laid it out in front of him. He said, That's cute, but what do you plan to build? He said, I want blueprints. And uh the gentleman uh being uh well I started to say a good Scotsman, he actually was Dutch Uh brother Vanderfluot said, um, do you know how much blueprints cost? And he said, I don't care how much blueprints cost. That's part of requirements. If you're going to build this ramp, you have to get blueprints. And so we had to hire an architect and he drew them up and uh we had to build this according to the blueprints. And he had used them before, he was a a builder, but And uh as we began to follow those, I realized how closely the inspector was going to follow what we were doing according to the blueprints. And we showed up to church one Sunday morning with a uh cease and desist uh construction warning on the uh project with yellow tape all over it. I thought, man, there'd been a fire through the night or something like that And uh the inspector had found two screws in a sixty foot worth of decking, two screws that were not what were required on the blueprints. Two. We had two, I think they were brass screws he was just building and he had dropped, you know, a couple of screws in there, and as he's going along, he just used those, and that inspector had so thoroughly combed over that, and there's reasons behind that, but nevertheless, he thoroughly combed over that that he found those two screws and he said, Stop the project. It's not according to the blueprint. Now, we say that's ridiculous. I felt the same way. But I want to tell you something. You hold in your hands a blueprint. None of which is ridiculous. Nothing in this Bible is ridiculous No requirement, no instructions, no direction is without divine purpose and plan. It's God's blueprint And I want you to think with me this morning about God's blueprint. I just read here in Genesis chapter number one about God's blueprint for man. For marriage and for life. All of which God has clearly laid out with such plainness that it doesn't take a great deal of intelligence to understand what God is communicating to us. And yet we see we live in a day where it's been deviated from. We're leaving the blueprint. We're leaving the directions of the Lord. We're leaving what God has determined and decreed, and my friend, it will be to our own hurt. And I want to challenge you this morning from the Word of God to think about His blueprint. His blueprint for your life and His blueprint for my life. I want you to notice number one as we think about what's said here, that God's blueprint is flawless Look at verse 26. And God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. God made no mistakes when he made man. When God created man, he didn't work and say, oops. How many of you know when you're building something and someone says oops, that is not a good word to hear? That could be a very expensive word when they say oops. But God, God, when God made man, he made no mistake. In fact, the Bible says he made us in his image. There is, if you'll note this, there is divine wisdom displayed in man's design. God made man like God made him because his wisdom declared it. God made you who you are and what you are, and he made us in the way that we are made. By his infinite wisdom. We need to know that. You're not a product of some evolutionary mistake and hazard. You're a divine creation. God made man. And you and I need to understand today that what we are and how God has made us was without any Reservation or hesitation or mistake on his part. I want you to notice that deity is reflected in humanity in this way. God said, let us make man in our image. Man is a moral creature. Man is a mental creature and a spiritual creature, all because he's made in the likeness of God. Now, this may be difficult for some to accept, but it is the truth. Your dog's not made like you. He 's not made in the image of God The birds of the air and the beasts of the field are not made in the image of God. The only thing God made in his image was man. And can I remind you this morning that deviations from God's design is an attack on deity. D do you realize this morning that because we're made in the image of God That devil the devil wants to mar man's image that he might get it, God. That's why man is under assault, if you will. And that's why man is marring himself in the manner in which he is, because it's a direct attack on deity. You say, preacher, what are you saying? I'm saying that if you do not understand that God made male and female And you say, but Pastor, this person's a female that feels like they're a male. Well, you know, that's an attack on deity because when God made you, God made you like he made you for a reason. And he did not leave it for you or I to decide. God made man in our in his image, in the likeness of God. When man deviates from God's plan, notice how God made Adam and Eve. He made them male and he made them female. And when we take that and we try to go away from that, and we say there must be something else. There must be something else. There must be a substitute. Do you understand, friend, that when that door is open and that path is trod, there is no end to it? And you say, Pastor, why are you saying that? Because, friend, I want you to know something. There's a lot of things in our culture that is being passed as normal and natural that is neither. And the only way we know that is if we go back and open the blueprint and say, Lord, what did you intend when you made man and woman? What did you intend when you created us? Well, here's what God intended, that we would be in his image. God 's design is without flaw. And God has decreed something that we have no liberty or authority to change or to challenge. So I want you to notice that his blueprint is flawless. If God is who God is, and God is who God is, our God is a perfect God. Our Bible tells us that He's sinless, He's holy, He's pure. There's no end to His wisdom, there's no bottom to His understanding. He his his judgment and knowledge uh goes beyond what you can fathom in your mind. You you think about the ability of of of man in his thinking and his knowledge. Have you ever met someone very intelligent? Sometimes you have to look hard, don't you? But there are some individuals and you think, how can they retain all of that? How do they know all of it? I mean, how how you've you've spoken with individuals that have And there just seems to be almost an endlessness to their to their understanding and to their knowledge and and uh the the it the it's impressive. I mean it impresses you with with uh what they know But can I say to you that if mere man can be in that way, can you imagine our God? For man's made in his image, and that mental capacity, they tell us we only use a very small percentage of our brain. And I'm convinced that there are periods in our life that we use a very small percentage of our brain, and hopefully God brings us through those times. But the reality is this that man is made in God's image. And if man has that capacity, tell me what God must be. In his knowledge and his understanding. The Apostle Paul said it's beyond finding out. That his debts, oh, listen, it brought worship out of this. We're not talking about something that's just merely uh uh uh a mental gymnastics. I'm talking about something that should elicit worship from your heart because you realize oh the the depths of the wisdom of God Our God is an all-wise God. Do you realize he knows the end from the beginning? That there's nothing escapes the knowledge of God or the eye of God. And in all of this perfection, when God made man, he made him male and female. God's design is flawless. But let me remind you this morning that God's design is also fruitful. Look in the text, please. Verse 27. So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him. Male and female created he them. And God blessed them. And God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth and subdue it. So I want you to notice that God's ways here, God's blueprint, is fruitful. Divine design yields life. It produces life. Even in the New Testament, you say, Well, preacher, this is Old Testament, as if it's not God's Word. God's Word is old and new. Testament. But in 1 Timothy chapter number 5, in fact, why don't you just turn over there and read it? Don't take my word for it. 1 Timothy chapter number 5 and verse number 14 The Apostle Paul writes these words, I will, and he's I willing, because God wills First Timothy five fourteen, I will therefore that the younger women marry, bear children. Guide the house. Give none occasion to the adversary to speak reproachfully. The decree of the New Testament is this: produce life. God 's design yields life. And we need to see the fruitfulness of this. By the way, all of God's ways are life-giving ways. Have you ever noticed that? That God's ways trend towards life. The Bible says in John 10:10, I am come that they might have life and that more abundantly. God's ways are ways of life. Friend, listen, there is no life outside of the Lord Jesus Christ. You can live for eternal life in a church, you can live for it in organized religion. You can look for it in uh moral repair or revolution or whatever you want to call it, but at the end of the day, the only life that you can find is in the person of the Lord Jesus who loved you and gave himself for you to save you and give you eternal life. There's no life outside of him. Don't try to put a substitute where no substitute will do. Many of you know the joys of having to substitute things in your diet This thing of sweetener without sugar is of the devil. There's no substitute. In my humble opinion, there's no substitute. There's no substitute for salt. You know, this almost salt stuff, or There's no substitute for butter. This larger and it pales in comparison to the real deal. Why do we believe that we can substitute something in the place of Jesus Christ to save and satisfy the soul? And there are all sorts of substitute. There's religious and irreligious substitutes, but at the end of the day, they're all the same. They're just substitutes. You will not find life in joining Maranatha Baptist Church and being a good member and going through all that's required. You can sit on a church pew and die and end up in hell. You must be born again. Christ alone will save you, my friend. He made the way when he died on bloody Calvary, and when he laid down his life for sinners like you and me. But thank God he didn't stay dead. He rose again on the third day. He lives. You say, how do you know? He lives in me, and if you're saved, he lives in you. But he's a living savior. There are no substitutes for the Savior. And there are no substitutes for the blueprint. Have you noticed deviations tend towards death? They trend that way. Deviations produce death. There's no life in the deviation. I don't know how we ever thought that two men could make life. They cannot. Two ladies cannot make life. It takes a man and a woman for there to be life. Death and destruction are the devil's MO. It's what he operates under. And again, I want to remind you that what he is after is he's after the image of God. He wants to mar man's image because man is created in the image of God. Only God's way produces life. Let me say this. The blueprints are not only flawless, the blueprints are fruitful. They produce life. You know, I'd never really built anything outside of a doghouse when I helped Brother Vanderfloot build that ramp. And I worked every day on the project with him by his side. And I followed, learned to follow those blueprints, and learned to do what the thing said. And it amazed me that just simply following that blueprint produced something that was useful. I mean , I remember as a little boy thinking, I'm gonna build a chicken coop. I've always loved chickens and had them and I said, I'm gonna build me a chicken coop. And so I had some bent nails and an old hammer that belonged to my dad and a handsaw and I went down the back of of where we had some outbuildings And I gathered up some scrap wood and I worked around all day trying to build what I thought would look like a chicken coop. And at the end of the day, I had nothing. But some tacked together old boards. And I remember dad came home, he said, What'd you do today, boy? I said, Well I I built a chicken coop. He said, Really? Let's go look at it. And I'm thinking, I don't want you to see this. And uh now mind you I'm six years old, so uh Dad says, Well, son, it needs a little work. And uh he said, if you'll wait till Saturday when I'm off, I'll help you. And I was amazed that on that day when He got up that morning and he took that mess and he he said, I I believe it'll work better if we take it apart. He didn't, you know, just say that looks like a pile of junk. It did, you know, looking back, but He said, we'll take it apart and we'll make something nice. And boy did at the end of that day we had something you could use I'm saying this, my friend. You can you can do your thing. You can live your life. You can go your way. You can say this is what I want to do, and this is how I feel about it, and this is what I think, and this is what I'm being told is right But at the end of the day, if it's not according to the blueprint of God's word, you're going to be left with nothing but a mess. Devastation and destruction are going to be all that you have to show for it. God's ways are not straightening to us. They're not restrictive to us just simply to make life miserable. God knows best. His way is the right way. And he's decreed these things that our lives might be fruitful in nature. That we might bear fruit, that we'll remain to the glory of God. He doesn't want you to wreck and ruin your life. Why? Because you're created in his image And I want you to notice that God's blueprint here is forever. It's forever. There's no expiry date on it. The Bible says in verse 31 of Genesis 1 that God saw everything that He had made, and behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day. Now, chapter 2, read on. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them And on the seventh day, God ended his work which he had made, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made. And God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it, because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made. And may I remind you that this is declaring a divine finality? God said, I'm finished with it. You know, if we're not careful, the thinking of our culture will taint our minds. We'll think like the world thing. Do you realize that Israel brought thinking out of Egypt that stayed with them even to Jesus' day? And the thinking of Egypt colored their minds and their thoughts so that they were not thinking God's way, they were thinking Egypt's way. And it's much the same today because many today think uh you know something, there's no such creature as a man living in a cave mindlessly banging rocks. God made an intelligent man when he created Adam and Eve. And you and I need to let the Bible do our Thinking. Let the word of God teach us. Oh, but preacher, the proof, the evidence, please show me. Please show me. Show me what's not been fictionalized or characterized by somebody. Hey, do do you realize you you can look at something and look at it through your lens? and you can determine it to be something it's not. You can say this is the the the facts say this. Why? Because you want 'em to say that And I'm saying, I'm not standing here to give you an opinion. I'm giving you what the Bible says. And when God made Adam and He made Eve, He didn't make mindless creatures. That is a teaching of evolution that says we have evolved from a lower form to a higher form. There was no evolving from lower to higher. God said, let there be, and there was. That's the God of heaven and his work. And so we see here there's a divine finality to this thing. God said, I've made man, I've made him in my image, I've made male and female, and it's very good. It's very good. By the way, Jesus repeated that. Would you go over to Matthew with me real quick? Matthew 19. And in Matthew chapter nineteen, listen to what Jesus said. In Matthew chapter 19 and verse number three. The Pharisees also came unto him, tempting him, and saying unto him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause? And he answered and said unto them, Listen, have ye not read that he which made them at the beginning made them male and female? Do you realize what Jesus is saying? He's saying, go back to the beginning. What God did then stands now. That there's no change here. And read on, he says, and said, For this cause shall a manly father, mother, shall cleave to his wife, and they twain shall be one flesh. Notice very clearly here that the declaration of the Lord Jesus is what God did is to continue. There's no change. By the way, you can't improve upon perfection. If God's made something very good, it doesn't need our additions or our repairs or restoration. If it's good in the eyes of God, it ought to be good in our eyes as well. God had a purpose in all of this. This do you understand that what he did here was sustain life? He sustains life through this. When you follow God's design, there may be, listen, and again, there are probably people that are listening or even sitting here that are worried about what man's going to do to the earth. Can I say to you stop worrying? Colossians chapter 1 says that He created all things by the word of His power, and it's by Him all things consist. He's the sustainer of life. The Bible says that as long as the earth shall stand, seed time and harvest. In other words, God is sustaining it. Friend, you are not big enough, I am not big enough to hold up life. God must hold it up. He's the sustainer of it. And there's no other way for it to be sustained. God makes the sun rise and set. He sets the wind in motion and causes the rain to fall from heaven. Interesting studying something this week in the book of Malachi And it struck me that God uh uses weather as a part of his work in man's heart. And God's in charge of that. Whether it's the thermostat By the way, the most argued element in any body of people is a thermostat. Does that happen in your house? We have elves that live or something. Maybe they're wood fairies that come out of the woods over there. And I'll go to bed and I'll have the air down where it's comfortable. A nice sixty-two or three. And I'll get up in the morning and it's on seventy-four And I'm like, who 's who's doing that? And you know the funny thing is I'll go through the house and deliberately look everyone up. Did you touch it? Oh not me You pray for the untruthful in my home. Go somebody's Jerry Stoneker, you ask Brother Jerry Stoner? He manages these for us. There is nothing gets well, maybe there's a few things that gets him in more trouble. But there is nothing that is more controversial than what's that heat on? Sometimes I find myself coming in here saying, What's that set at? You know. I like it next door to a freezer, so it will never be too cold in here. I promise you that. For me. But my point is this you're not in control of God's thermostat. And I'm not in control of what God's doing with this earth. He's the sustainer of life. And all the decrees of politics and all of the rulings of this uh of powerful people, whatever they want to do, will not change it, one iota. And you say that's unintelligent. No, it's biblical. We need to get over the fact that that the Bible says some things that man can't accept because man don't accept the God who gave it. The Bible tells us in Ecclesiastes 3. 14, for whatsoever God doeth, it is forever. When God does something, he does it forever. I've said all that to say this. Culturally, we're in trouble. We're normalizing that which is not normal nor natural. My wife and I were driving home on Friday and came to a little town and we were shocked to see the town blocked And a festival underway, and little children being rushed in by the dozens. To watch the unnatural paraded before their eyes. To say to these little children, it's okay if you're a man that wants to be a woman, or you're a woman that wants to be a man. And I'm saying to you, I have no animosity in my heart towards those to put people. I'm I'm not I'm not uh soliciting uh anger in and saying, oh uh, you know, this is this is something that we need to take care of. No, I'm saying to you, my friend, that the devil has deceived a multitude of people And he's blinded their eyes. And you know what the only hope is? It's Jesus Christ and his gospel. We must preach the good news of Christ. Why are we in the trouble we're in? I'll tell you why, because we've kept the gospel in here and we've not taken it out there. And we need to declare, thus saith the Lord. But I want to remind you as a local church that you need to follow the Bible. Christians, culture is not your cue. This is. My culture's not teaching me what's normal or natural. My Bible is. And I need to follow the precious word of God. I want to challenge you, believer, to point to Jesus Christ. This world needs him more desperately, perhaps, than ever. They need to hear him and see him and know him through your lives as you point to him and preach the gospel. And my friend, listen, it may be just mere moments that you had, but use those moments wisely. Don't give your opinions, give the word, give the truth. Give people Christ. I don't know the doctor's name. That was Pastor Dickerson's personal doctor, the Dr. Scott. If I lived to be a hundred, I hope I never forget this. But sitting here, he was speaking that, remember, for Pastor? He pulled my coat when I got up. He's an unusual man. And he pulled my coat. And he said, Give him, just while I was coming to preach. He stopped himself. He said Give him heaven, give them Jesus. That was his challenge. You know what? This world needs the Lord Jesus. You and I are tasked with the responsibility to give them Him, to point to Him. He's the only one who can save. And my dear friends, teach your children. Tell this next generation what the Bible says. You and I, friend, listen. Somehow or another have got to communicate for their own well-being. That God made man like he made him on purpose. And the confusion and chaos that we're casting our little children into as a culture is nothing short of abuse. There's something comforting to know That God made me like He made me for a reason. You young men, God didn't intend for you to be feminine like. God made you to be young men. There's nothing to be ashamed of that. There's nothing for you to be ashamed of in being a man. You young ladies, God made you a young lady on purpose. Don't try to be masculine. That was not God's intention for you. God made you who you are on purpose. There's something awful comforting about being able to say, God made me like I am for a reason. Friend, if we'll go back to the blueprint, we'll get the help we need. Deviations always lead to destruction. If you don't believe that, ask Sodom and Gomorrah. Ask every culture that threw off the restraint. Of clear Bible teaching. And where are they today? They're where we're rapidly heading if we don't have real heaven sent revival. My friend, listen, no matter of moral living will make you fit for heaven. If you're listening to me and saying, Pastor, I agree with every word you said. And I'm trying to do my best to be what God made me and live like I should. My friend, that is not enough to go to heaven on. There is a way that is made. Jesus said it like this I am the way, the truth, and the life. And no man cometh unto the Father but by me. You're not saved on your morality, you're saved on the merits of the perfect sacrifice made by Jesus on the cross. And he'll save you today if you'll but trust him. I love the words spoken to that jailer after having his little world turned upside down. He jumped in and said, What must I do to be safe? He heard all that talking and preaching and perhaps singing, and he said, What can I do? What do I do to be saved? And Paul said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. And I urge you to do that today if you're not saved. If you're listening to this broadcast, salvation isn't obtained in a building. You don't have to be at 3141 Old Elk Neck Road My friend, you can be saved in your living room. You can be saved on the side of the road. You can be saved wherever you are, wherever you're willing to turn and trust the Lord Jesus Christ. He'll save you in that spot. And he'll save you today. And dear Christian, may God help us to get biblical fortitude and Bible truth packed up in our hearts. That we might stand by the grace of God for what's right and true until Jesus takes us home. Let's stand together, please. Brother thou.