And verse number five. Let me invite you to stand with me, please, and we'll honor the reading of God's Word in this way this evening. Psalm 103, verse 5. Speaking of our Lord, it says, Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles Notice that. He satisfies our mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. I want to preach on good things. And especially on the purpose of the good things. It maybe help us tonight identify some of those good things so that we can see what God's given them to us for. Let's pray. Father, please help us tonight. I pray you'll take your word and do your work, and then may it be all for your glory. I thank you for the privilege to pray. We bow ourselves before you, acknowledging the great need of our heart. Lord, in these moments together, Lord, especially, help me, hide me behind the cross, empty of me of me, and fill me with thee. And Lord have your way. And Lord, would you give what these dear souls need here this evening? And Father, for what you do, we'll be careful to praise you and thank you. For we ask all these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. I want you to notice what the Bible has to say about these good things. It's very evident who provides them. The psalmist starts this psalm like this Bless the Lord, O my soul. and all that is within me bless his holy name. And then he goes on to tell us that we bless his name because he satisfies our mouth with good things. And I want you to notice that the good things have a good purpose. You notice those two little words, and these are what really got my attention as I was reading through this passage. It says so that. For the purpose of that thy youth may be renewed like the eagles The Lord wants to refresh his people. Now we know there's no fountain of youth. You can travel the world over, and I don't care what vitamins you take or what remedies you use or whatever It may be there's one thing going to catch up with all of us, and it's called age. The Bible makes it quite clear that our outward man is perishing. Little by little and day by day, that outward man perishes. But the scripture also says in that same text, though the outward man perish. Yet the inward man is renewed day by day. And so though my body may age, and the depletion of age may be experienced. The reality is, is that we can enjoy spiritual renewal on a day-by-day basis. And God 's set up some things that will make it make us able to be renewed. He said, I'm going to satisfy your mouth with good things so that your youth is renewed like the eagles. If you're running on empty tonight, I hope you'll listen up and maybe write a few things down. Because there's something that God has given, there are some things God has given us that will renew us. Isaiah 40, one of my favorite verses in the scripture. Isaiah 40 and verse 31 says, But they that wait upon the Lord Shall renew their strength, they shall mount up with wings as eagles, they shall run and not be weary, and they shall walk and not faint. God's able to come by and refill your spiritual tank, who satisfies thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. The eagle is in the scripture a symbol of strength and power The eagle is one of one of the birds and like all other birds it goes through a molting process and perhaps if you see it in the midst of that thing uh you'll think it'll never fly again. Its feathers fall out, you know, and it has a lot of things that happen to it biologically that uh makes it look like that thing is going to die. But just when you think that it's about over for that little eagle or for that eagle, and you think that there's no more hope for that eagle, it's as if his youth is renewed. And God has built in a mechanism in that bird so that he could be refreshed, renewed, and he looks as good as he did in his youth. And he's got his strength back, his vigor back, his zeal back. I know all of the Christian life is not a constant mountaintop experience. I recognize that there are seasons that we all must live through. But I'm also grateful that there is a God who comes by and renews us spiritually and refreshes us when we need it. In fact, he knows when we certainly need this renewing of our youth. And so I want you to think with me about the good things That God has designed to help us be renewed. And when you look at those things, you've got to say, well, what are some good things? And you know the best thing to do is do a word study. And so I did a word study on good things. And I I'll be honest with you, it it sort of shocked me what I found And I want you to see these good things that God's given us so that we can be renewed spiritually. I don't know about you, but every once in a while I get weary. Not of well doing, but I get weary in well doing. Does that make sense? I I I I sometimes my my spiritual gas tank gets mighty handy the big letter E. So every once in a while we need some refreshing and we need some renewing. The first time good things are used is in the book of Genesis. That shouldn't surprise us. That's the seedbed of all Bible truth. But if you'll go back with me to Genesis 45. Genesis chapter number forty-five, and to save time as far as a lot of reading, uh this is the period where Joseph is making himself known, and Jacob finds out he's still alive. And I want you to see this in Genesis chapter 45 and verse number 21. The Bible says that Joseph gave them wagons according to the commandment of Pharaoh and gave them provision for the way. Notice that provision for the way. That means he gave them food to eat and water to drink and everything they needed as they traveled from Egypt back up to Canaan. To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment or clothing, but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver and five changes of raiment. And to his father he sent after this manner, ten asses laden with the good things of Egypt. There's your first mention. And ten sheasses laden with corn and bread and meat for his father by his what by the way. So he sent his brethren away, and they departed, and he said unto them, See that ye fall not out by the way. Can I say this? Joseph knew these birds, and he said, Don't you get in trouble like you've prone to You go back to the father, you go back to Jacob, you tell him what you've seen, show him all these good things, and tell him to get down here soon because his son 's still alive. Notice this, verse 25, and they went up out of Egypt and came into the land of Canaan unto Jacob their father, and told him, saying, Joseph is yet alive. And he is governor over all the land of Egypt. And Jacob's heart fainted, for he believed them not. And they told him all the words of Joseph. Which he had said unto them. Now watch this. And when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, now what were the wagons loaded with? The good things of Egypt. Remember we read that. The good things of Egypt, when he saw them, uh notice this. He which he had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their father, revived. And Israel said, It is enough Joseph, my son, is yet alive. I'll go and see him before I die. I want you to notice, if you're making notes, that God's provisions Are good things that God sends our way to refresh our spirit. Those provisions of God, you say, what are they? They're everything God provides. James 1. 17 says every good and perfect gift comes from above, from the Father of life with whom there's no Variables sneeze, shadow, eternity. Every good and perfect gift, listen, every good thing that you enjoy, God in heaven is the one who provides it. God's provisions are given to us so that we might enjoy them. 1 Timothy 6, verse 17, tells us that He gives us richly all things to enjoy. You ever stop and think about it? I don't believe it's so much the things that are meant to refresh us. As it is the gratitude we ought to have over them, whatever they may be, or the contentment that we have with them, whatever they may be. And the the the the the blessing of knowing that God cares enough to feed me. I watched a little robin the other day pull a great big juicy worm out of the ground And I'll tell you that that m that was that was a record-breaking Maryland worm. I'd never seen a worm that big. And and she was a pulling, pulling, pulling. She kept leaning back, and finally she popped him out. S swallowed it whole, man, she must have been hungry, and she swallowed it whole, and then she jumped up on a tree branch and she sung like it was there's no tomorrow It was the prettiest song you ever heard. And you know what I got to thinking? I believe she said, I gotta go tell the Lord how thankful I am for that great big juicy worm. She was praising the Lord for his permission. You say, I don't believe that. That's why you don't get a blessing. That's why you, you know, so so sad, you know But God provides for his people. Do you know that? God takes care of us. And and but let me remind you of something tonight that we can sometimes the good things don't do us no good. Because we misuse them. Deuteronomy chapter six Warns us or warns the children of Israel, when you live in houses you didn't build, and you eat from vineyards you did not plant, and you drink water from wells you did not dig, beware Lest thou forget God. You know there are people this Lord's day that God has blessed real good, and you know what they're doing with that blessing? They're using it to bring dishonor to the Lord. God may have blessed them and they was able to get, you know, a camper or boat or something like that. Instead of honoring God on his day, they're running up down the bay, sitting in some campground somewhere and they're dishonoring the God who blessed them. God doesn't give us good things to be disobedient with He gives us good things so that we can look up and say, God thank you for being so good to me. I'm going to tell you something. This winter I there was several times, though it's not my home. I can I laid there and I thought, you know what? I'm glad I got a roof over my head. I'm glad there's a wall around me that's got insulation. I'm glad that there's a furnace that's running and keeping my whole carcass warm. Lord, thank you for these good things. Good things are given to us to refresh our heart. Doesn't it refresh you when every once in a while you say, now Lord, you did that for me? You gave that. Lord, thank you. Thank you for being so kind. Thank you, Lord, for being so gracious. I'm talking about good things that will renew your youth Like the eagle. You know something? Don't get caught up in the spirit of this age that says, Give me more. Be grateful for what God does. Don't be deceived by the spirit of the age that says, just a little more. You know what? If you're not grateful for what you have, you'll never be grateful for what you get. That's impossible. But these good things, I I'm talking about good things that God has given to us to renew our youth like the eagle. Let me give you another one, and the next one you have to go to the book of Joshua. Joshua chapter number twenty-four, or excuse me, twenty-three. Joshua chapter number twenty-three And I want you to look with me at verse number 14. Now we're near the end of the book of Joshua, and Joshua's old. He's going to say as much. Um Brother Dow, I I thought we sung that s that verse again because it was good. That's what you should have said I I thought we're just singing it because it's good, you know. So I told Sister Beth, that's that'll that'll be a good answer. Uh but Joshua's old and he's about to go the way of all the earth And here's what he says in verse 14, and behold, this day I'm going the way of all the earth. In other words, Joshua said, I'm getting ready to die. And ye know in all your hearts and in all your souls that not one thing hath failed of all the good things which the Lord your God spake concerning you. All are come to pass unto you, and not one thing hath failed thereof. You know what that is? That's the promises of God. He said, There's not one good thing. What did God promise? God said, I'll put you in the land. God said, I'm going to take care of you and I'm going to drive the enemy out. Do you know God even employed the bees at one occasion to drive the enemy out? God was so gracious and merciful to them, you think about how he gave them Jericho We were talking in chapel in the Academy this week about how sometimes what God tells you to do doesn't make sense. Do it anyhow. I'm sure to those men, when God said, now march around Jericho, around the walls, go around it once every day, sixth day, seventh day, seven times around, and then I'll give you the city. Can you stop and think about a minute? If you're walking around the wall, you know what you are? You're an easy target. I mean they didn't have revolvers, but maybe they had bows or spears or whatever, and it would be easy to just go poonk. Here's the whole army and they're just marching around. It's almost like they're saying, Hit us. You know, it didn't make a lick of sense, but aren't you glad that God said, I'm going to give you that city? And whatever God did, he did to restrain those people from attacking the children of Israel when they marched around. But here's what I'm trying to say: every promise God made, he kept That's a good thing. Do you realize tonight that God has loaded you with promises? They say there are over 8,000 promises in the Bible. It's really hard to put pen down in a sense because there are just so many of them. They're promises that are often somewhat in seed form, but they're promises nonetheless. And yet, listen, those promises aren't pretty little daisies to put up on a shelf to look at. Those promises are rugged tools meant to be used in daily life so that you and I can war a good warfare. God has given, listen, there's not a promise in the Bible that will not stand to the test. Whatever that promise may be, and by the way, I believe there's a promise for every situation. Listen, the scripture teaches us we need to know the promises. We need to use the promises. We need to pray the promises. We need to believe the promises. And we need to lay hold of the promises and count on them because faithful is he that promised who will also do it. Everything God said he would do, he did. And will do. There are all kinds of promises. I don't want to get bogged down here, but you know there's promises about prayer If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not. There's promises like, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. There's promises such as, call unto me, and I'll answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. I'm talking about promises. God wants you to take off the shelf and put them to use in your life and utilize them for your spiritual warfare and your spiritual benefit. Promises. These are some of those good things God has given us so that our youth is renewed like the eagles. God has made promises about his presence. He said, I'll never leave thee. Nor forsake thee. He's made some promises so that we may boldly say, the Lord's my helper. I will not fear what men shall do unto me. He's made some promises to us when he said, I will not leave you comfortless, I will come to you. He's made promises about his power. He said, but ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you He's given us promises that if we're filled with the Spirit of God, that He will enable us to do. Like Paul said, I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me. I'm talking about promises. Promises are meant to be utilized by the people of God. I think sometimes we forget about what the promises are for. The promises are not for me to just look at. They're not for me to carry around like a lucky charm. Promises are not just meant to be a play pretty, you know. We've got things in our house that serve no purpose. But just to look at. That took me a long time to figure out. I'm fifty something years old and I still ain't got it figured out, but I've learned to live with it, okay? But they don't they don't have have a purpose. Listen, you you men understand what I'm about to say. If you if you've got tools, they got a purpose. You don't put them in there to look at. That's not what they're for. You don't have that set of wrenches or whatever it may be. You don't have them there. Just, you know that looks good in my toolbox Well, it may look good in your toolbox, but it's there on purpose. It has a work to do. The promises of God are not trinkets to be set up around the walls. They are promises God's put in your toolbox and he says, I want you to use them every day. I want you to use them because you're going to need them. I want you to use them because they're going to help you. I want you to use them because your youth will be renewed like the eagle when you use the promises Sometimes you have to get on your knees and lay hold of Isaiah 40, 31 and say, Lord, you said that if I wait on you, you'll renew my strength. David said in Psalm 27, wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. I'll be honest with you, I use that one a whole lot, my private time with God, I start it that way. Quoting that verse, reminding my heart Now what I'm doing is waiting on him because I need something from his good hand, and he promised me that if I'd wait, he'd strengthen my heart It's the promises of God. Oh, how abundant they are. He made a promise like this. He said, if I go, I will come again. To receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. He made a promise, and and beloved, listen, some days, some days, you just need to lay hold of the promise, Lord, you're coming, and that'll fix it. Some days you just need to say, Now, Lord, I don't know what the outcome of this is, but I know one of these days when the trumpet sounds the dead and Christ will rise first. And we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together to meet the Lord in the air and just shout on the reality, Jesus is coming. There's sometimes the problems won't be solved down here, the situation won't be worked out down here, the remedy will not be found down here, but I promise you up yonder in heaven it'll all be well. It'll all be right. It'll be fixed. I don't care what people say about that. I hear people say this now quite frequently, and it reminds me what Peter said. Scoffers will arise in the last days. They say things like this is pie in the sky. This is just some sort of tranquilizer for the people to tell them Jesus is coming. No, it's the truth of the living word of God. It's one of the last things Jesus said, and when the angels stood by and watched him go up, they said to those men, ye men of Galilee, Why stand ye here gazing? This same Jesus whom you saw go up shall so come again in like manner. Church, I'm here to tell you the coming of the Lord is the promise. That's meant to reinvigorate your spiritual life, encourage you spiritually, and refresh you so that your youth is renewed like the eagles. Don't let the devil make the promises just something you hang on the wall. Now you ought to hang promises on your wall. It'll help you. I'm thankful for those sweet reminders. uh from the scriptures that are put in art form. But what I'm saying is that's not where they need to remain. They need to get down here in the depths of your heart and be utilized in your everyday life so that your youth is renewed like the eagles. Promises. Quickly, let me give you another one or two. A prepared heart A prepared heart. We'll have to go to 2 Chronicles to see this one. In chapter number 19, we're dealing with the king of Judah. His name is Jehoshaphat. And this king was a good king. He was a king that God really blessed. In fact, the Bible says God was with him. He wasn't a perfect king because we're going to read here in chapter 19 how he went to war. The Bible says that he went to war with the ungodly. Not against the ungodly, but with the ungodly. He's referring to the king of Israel. And he sa and and because of that, he says, Wrath upon thee from before the Lord. But verse three of Second Chronicles nineteen says, Nevertheless, there are good things found in thee Look at these good things that are found in him. Thou hast taken away the groves out of the land, and hast prepared thine heart to seek God. And Jehoshaphat dwelt at Jerusalem, and he went out again through the people from Beersheba to Mount Ephraim and brought them back unto the Lord God of their fathers. Do you know what was happening here? God was working in his life. How can I say this? There were signs of grace in his heart. There were tokens or evidences. There were evidences that he was a believer, that he was God , and that God was doing something in his heart. And I think sometimes we forget that those signs of God's grace are given intentionally to you and I so that we can be encouraged and be refreshed or renewed in our spirit. Let me say this to you in this way. If you're bothered when you sin, thank God , that's an evidence of grace. If you sin and the Holy Ghost comes by and says You ought to praise the Lord that he cares enough for you to do a work in your heart to restrain you and to deal with you when you sin. When God chastised you, nobody likes to get a whooping. Right? Maybe some of you of them weird kids that like to get whipped. I didn't like to get whoopings. I I I did not like it. In fact, I volunteered my sister for all of mine, but they were never taken up for, you know I was more than happy to share my share with her, but she just didn't seem to have caught into that, and neither did Daddy or Mom. But the truth of the matter is they're good for us. The Bible says, whom he loves, he chastens. And when the Spirit of God deals with you about something, you ought to stop just a minute and say, Lord, you're just showing me you love me. You're just letting me know that you love me, that I belong to you, and you belong to me, and I'm part of the family. These are evidences of grace. Can I remind you that any Christ-likeness in us is an evidence of grace? If there's any change in your life, any transformation Any working of God that makes you more like Jesus and less like you, that is an evidence of grace, and it ought to refresh your heart to know that God has come and done something in you. If you get up in the morning and you've got any appetite at all for the Word of God and you take any moments to open the scriptures and begin to read them for the benefit of your soul, you ought to pause and say, thank you, God, for giving me a spiritual appetite. If you bow your head to pray and sense a stirring in your heart to call on God, to sense that burden to go and give it to the Lord. Sensing that invitation of the Lord that says, Come unto me, that invitation that says, Come boldly unto the throne of grace. And you know, sometimes you don't sense it so much as you exercise it. It 's almost a natural response Last surgery I had, I woke up and I I hate being put to sleep for many reasons. But it's the way you feel when you're coming off of that stuff. And I shake, man, I shake like the you wouldn't believe when that stuff's coming out of my system. And I woke up and I I I I was talking and I was saying something and I realized what I was doing. I was praying. I was praying out loud. And I said to that nurse, I I said, I didn't say nothing I shouldn't. She said, Oh no, no, no, no She said you've been talking to the Lord, she said, for a long time about this. And I said, Good. But it wasn't intentional. It wasn't something I I'm just saying, they're evidences of grace There's evidence that God has done something in your heart. The fact that you want to be in God's house. That's an evidence of God doing something in your heart. I mean, you want I know there's some come that for whatever reason that's your between you and the Lord, but there are some that are here, I believe, with all my heart I watched you. I watched some of you singing tonight. There's a new name written in glory. And if you could put the definition of enjoyment, you'd have put your picture right there. You were singing it like you knew your name was there And I believe you do. I believe you know. And you're thankful for that. And what I'm saying is, those are evidences of God's working. God is doing something in your heart, and you want to be with the people of God and you want to hear the word of God and you have those holy desires. Friend, that's not natural. That's not the work of your flesh. That's not the influence of the devil. That's the evidence of the grace of God doing something special in your heart. We ought to give him the glory for it and be encouraged by it and say, Lord, that refreshes me to know that you are doing something in me and doing something with me Thank God for a prepared heart. Quickly. Oh, quickly, let me say just a couple of more, please. The pure gospel The pure gospel. I'm going to jump to the New Testament real fast. There's a whole lot of these actually. But Romans chapter ten Romans chapter ten, verse fifteen says, And how shall they preach except they be sent? Now listen to this, as it is written. How beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace and bring glad tidings of good things. Do you see that? Glad tidings of good things. The gospel is one of those good things that God has given us to refresh and renew our heart. The gospel and its subsequent work of justification and sanctification and glorification are encouragements to the believer. When I first started pastoring, it it sort of concerned me Because I wanted to preach the gospel so much, but I knew all 30, 40 of those people and knew they were Christians, or at least they professed to be. And there I went through a spell in my spiritual life of just sort of being backward about preaching the gospel. It didn't help that there were a few older sisters that would say You know, you preach the gospel too much. You probably should be an evangelist, not a pastor. A pastor shouldn't preach the gospel all the time. And then I started studying my Bible. And all of that bashfulness, God has burned up, I do believe, and I pray if there's any left, he'll burn it up. Because I found out that believers appreciate the gospels as much as unbelievers need it. Because believers need the reminder of what God in His good grace and mercy has done for a bunch of sinners like us We need to be refreshed. Doesn't it refresh you to hear how Christ died for our sin and he was buried and he rose again the third day? Why, it's food for your spiritual soul. It's strength for that journey. It's help and encouragement. When you think of the fact that Christ would die for somebody like me, oh beloved, you'll never preach it too much, you'll never proclaim it too much, you'll never publish it too much. I've told you this as several dear brother said to me, he said, Now don't you be like Pastor Dickerson and preach the gospel all the time. And I thought, brother, what in the world? He said he preached the gospel too much. There's a whole lot of other things to preach. Well, I get there's other things to preach, but please hear me. There are not other things more important than the gospel. And the gospel is the power of God and the salvation to everyone that believeth. By the way, that gospel is not just for the unbeliever, that gospel is for everyone that believeth. There is power in the gospel message for the born-again child of God. And there listen, it's a help from heaven, a refreshing for my spirit to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. Years ago I used to go to gospel halls. They are um closed brethren assemblies. They originated in Ireland, especially Northern Ireland, that's where most of these men came from. They called themselves Christian workers And they scattered out all over Canada preaching the gospel. And I'll tell you the only reason I went to those meetings. They would hold gospel meetings in an area. And they might go Two weeks, they might go six weeks, they might go ten weeks. As long as somebody who they thought were unsaved attended the meeting, they would continue And these men, old Albert Hull, he's in heaven now, he's an Irishman. Uh Brother McGinley, he was uh a man from Northern Ireland, he was uh oh. These men would preach the gospel, two of them every night. One would preach thirty minutes, we'd stand and sing a hymn, and another would preach thirty minutes And they'd do that every night, night after night. Brother Andy, it was like food for me. And I would sit in those gospel halls and and you know, because I was one of Baptists, I was shouldn't have been there. Black sheep. And number two, because I was a pastor, which they call the one-man show, I had to sit in the seat of the unlearned. You say, what is that? They have a place in the back of the hall I'm not lying. They have a place where the seat of the unlearned, because see, I was unlearned so far as that's concerned. I might have been unlearned, but I was sure getting some help. And I was enjoying the good gospel that was being preached. One of the brothers stopped me and I guess he thought I was there looking for people trying to steal. And he said, What do you come around here for? I said, I'll tell you why. I love the gospel. And I said, I appreciate the clarity that it's preached by these dear men. And it does something for me. You know what he did? He stuck out his old hand and said, Well good, you can come back. I said, Thank you. I plan to But you know what? The gospel will help you, beloved, Christian, brother, sister, whatever you may be. The gospel will help you. It is glad tidings of good things. And there's good things. There's help in these good things. Let me leave you one more. This one's over in the book of Titus. If you'll go there quickly as we close, the book of Titus. And let me just reference these here real quick, Titus two and and uh Verse 3. The aged women likewise, they be in behaviors become of holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine. Teachers, see that? The aged women teachers of good things. That's their responsibility. Chapter 3, verse 8, this is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men. The actual wording of that is these are good things that are profitable. Good works. I want you to notice this last thing here, and that is this thing of proper living. When you do right, it brings refreshment to your heart. When you do right. When you live according to those good things. When you take the Bible and let it be your God, when you follow its instruction, when you Let the Lord do that work in your heart and you begin to follow him. You know what happens? God puts his smile on your life. And God's smile on your life is like the sun on the plants in your garden. It'll make them come alive. We've had a little bit of cloudy, cold, dreary, sort of a different kind of spring so far as what we're used to in our short time here. But Have you noticed that when the sun comes out, how everything just sort of perks up? Perks up. We've got some there squash or zucchini, one of the two But that those things were just struggling and looking so puny and pitiful in these last couple days of sunshine. I got up this morning when I looked out the window. I said, that looks like a bloom. I put my glasses on. I said, sure enough, that thing is blooming out there. It's coming alive. That smile of the sun on that little plant is making it come alive. Brother and sister, you live so that God's pleased with you, and you too will come alive. It'll renew your spirit. It'll refresh your heart. It will encourage you so that your youth is renewed like the eagles. A lot of times I do believe that we often struggle with being spiritually empty, not always, but sometimes because we're just not doing right. And we're depleted because we're disobedient. And we're walking, and that's not always the case, but sometimes it is, and we need to discern Lord, is that the reason that I'm not in uh refreshed or renewed? Listen, when you do those good things, when you live in that way that God calls a good thing, then God will come by and renew you and refresh you. Well, the text says that God has given us some good things Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles If you're running on empty, let me just say this. It's time to get back to the good things. And when you get back to the good things, you'll find that the Lord is faithful to renew your youth, your spiritual vigor. It's sort of like we're told in the church at Ephesus, going back to your first love, and being renewed on the inside. Oh, the outward man perishes, but that inward man can be renewed. day by day. May that be the true of us. You'll find help if you'll use these good things. Lord please.