I want you to open your Bibles, please, to Romans chapter number four. Romans chapter number four, and I'm going to read the entire chapter. I believe what the Bible has to say is way more important than what I have to say about the Bible. And so I'm going to read these verses and I want you to hear them, please, as we try to go a little further in our study of understanding grace. Two weeks ago we started a series, I guess, of a message on understanding grace. And we come to Romans chapter number four, and here we have an Old Testament Bible study. On this New Testament truth of grace. Notice what your Bible says. Romans chapter 4, and look with me beginning in verse 1. What shall we say then that Abraham our father, as pertaining to the flesh, hath found? For if Abraham were justified by works, he hath whereof to glory, but not before God. For what saith the Scripture? Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt. But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness. Even as David also describeth the blessedness of the man, unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works, saying, Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin. Cometh this blessedness then upon the circumcision only, or upon the uncircumcision also? For we say that faith was reckoned to Abraham for righteousness. How was it then reckoned when he was in circumcision or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision. And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of faith, which he had, yet being uncircumcised That he might be the Father of them all that believe, though they be not circumcised, that righteousness might be imputed unto them also. The father of circumcision to them who are not of the circumcision only, but who also walk in the steps of that faith of our father Abraham, which he had, being yet uncircumcised. For the promise that he should be the heir of the world was not to Abraham or to his seed through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. For if they which are of the law be heirs, faith is made void, and the promise made of none effect. Because the law worketh wrath, for where no law is, there is no transgression. Therefore it is a faith that it might be by grace. To the end the promise might be sure to all the seed, not to that only which is of the law, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. As it is written, I have made thee a father of many nations, before him whom he believed, even God who quickeneth the dead and calleth those things which be not as though they were. Who against hope believed in hope that he might become the father of many nations according to that which was spoken, so shall thy seed be. And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead when he was about an hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God, and being fully persuaded that what he had promised, he was able also to perform. And therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness. Now it was not written for his sake alone that it was imputed to him, but for us also to whom it shall be imputed. If we believe on him that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead, who was delivered for our offenses and was raised again for our justification. Now, Romans chapter four, you can write over the top of the whole chapter, Grace alone. Grace alone. You know, throughout the Bible, salvation has always been by grace alone. There's not an Old Testament way and a New Testament way. There's a grace way. It's by grace alone. The Bible says, and by the way, that word alone is a watershed word because it divides everything. It's either works or grace. You can't have a mixture of two. I'm either saved today by what I do or what I help the Lord do, or I'm saved simply by what the Lord Himself has done. It's by grace. Now it it's interesting to me that uh as uh Paul writes these Romans, he takes this Old Testament example of Abraham and inserts David and he teaches us what it means to to exercise or to be a recipient of grace alone. I want to say three things about it that are here in this chapter, and we'll pray and then we'll ask the Lord to help us, all right? Father, would you do a work? And help us this morning. We're grateful for the privilege to gather, for the privilege to read your word, for the opportunity and place and help and privilege and all that you've entrusted us so that we could be here this morning. And Lord, we're asking that you would do for us what we can't do for ourselves. Make this thing of grace so wonderfully plain. That if there's one outside of the grace of God, they'll find themselves crying out, Lord, to thee, for this grace. I'm grateful, Lord, you are able to save to the uttermost. So Lord, I pray your will be done. Help us. We'll give you the glory. We ask these things in Jesus' name and God's people. Amen. I want you to think again about what we read. And I believe there's a couple of key verses here in the text. The first key that we see is verse number three: for what saith the Scripture? Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. Abraham believed God. I want you to see that the grace of God alone brings salvation. Salvation is God to man, not man to God. That's where grace begins. Grace begins with God. You and I have to understand that salvation is of the Lord. Unmerited by man. It is grace alone. I remember hearing Oliver B. Green say he never got in trouble with the religious crowd until he started preaching about grace alone. And he said when I started preaching about grace and alone, he said I started getting shots from everywhere because you know what man wants to do? He wants to help God out. You've got to know something, and I've got to know something that God doesn't need my help nor does he want it. Salvation is his wonderful work. It's grace alone. Grace alone. Old J. Frank Norris told a story, and I brought this with me so I wouldn't tell it wrong. And then he gave us 15 marks of this God-towards man thing of grace. But he was in uh Michigan. In fact, he pre - he pastored a church there in Detroit, I believe it was, for a while, and uh also pastored down in Dallas, Texas. And he was uh God used him in a very special way, but he said he had a a mother in his church that had a young man who had gotten tangled up with the wrong crowd and ended up uh getting about thirty years uh sentence. And he had gotten tuberculosis while he was in prison. And the mother came to Norris and said, I heard you read a letter from the governor in church the other day. Are you his friend? And he said, I am. He said, He's a Christian man. She said, Would you go plead with him for my son? His life is not going to last very long, and I'd sure like to bring him home to let him die there instead of being in prison. Norris said he made his way to the governor's office. He pled with the governor, and he had asked the mother to meet him there, and the mother went in and she said Oh please have mercy on my son. I know he did wrong. I know he deserves the time, but his his life is quickly leaving him. He's not going to live long. Would you show him mercy and just let him just let him come home and die? She went out the door and Nora said, You know, Judge, were it not for the goodness of God, you and I could be that boy. You and I could be in that same boat. Were it not for the goodness of God, Judge And he said the old judge, uh the old governor dropped his head and he said , I've heard you, Norris. Now go. Norris said he went his way. He said how thrilled he was. The next Sunday morning, as he stood in the pulpit there at First Baptist in Detroit and started to preach the word, he said, Here come that little mother with that sick boy on her arm. He went down to her afterwards and he said, Mother, you know what that is? That's the grace of the governor in your life. The governor made a decision and he did it based not on merit of the boy. The boy deserved to remain in prison, but he did it because of grace. And then he said, there's a governor in heaven. And he extends grace to people. He extends grace to sinners. Unmerited, undeserved. Listen, that's what grace is all about. It comes from God to man. In Ephesians chapter 2, I don't have time to read it this morning. But in Ephesians chapter 2, that's the grace chapter of the Bible. It's the grace chapter of the Bible. And you see the grace of God from God to man, from God to man. And listen, every sinner, and that's what we all are except those that are saved, we're saved sinners, every individual here this morning ought to be thankful for the grace of God because you'd have no hope if it weren't for that. There'd be no hope if it weren't for grace. Listen to this summary Norris put down. He says, and he's quoting from the text of Ephesians 2, and you hath he quickened. That's grace from God to man. But God, who is rich in mercy, that's grace from God to man. For his great love, that's grace from God to man. Wherewith he loved us, that's grace from God to man. Hath quickened us together with Christ. That's grace from God to man. By grace are ye saved. That's grace from God to man And hath raised us up together, that's grace from God to man, and made us sit together in heavenly places, that's grace from God to man. It is the gift of God, that's grace from God to man, for we're his workmanship, that's grace from God to man, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, that's grace from God to man. Which God hath before ordained. That's grace from God to man. Folks, it is all of grace I want you to see here in my text in Romans chapter number 4, the grace of God as we see it in Abraham's life. Grace was not just a New Testament incident. Grace is the running theme throughout the whole Word of God. From Genesis to Revelation, it's all of grace. Now listen, there'll come a time when the church is in heaven. And there are going to be people who will be saved on this earth. We understand it's people who have never heard the gospel message. And you know how they're going to get saved? By grace. It'll be by grace. Listen, it's always by grace. There's no two ways to heaven. There's only one. Notice with me, if you will, if you're making notes, in the first eight verses of Romans chapter 4. We read about grace alone brings righteousness. Grace alone brings righteousness. Only grace can bring righteousness. You know, we hear people talk about self-righteousness. Can I submit to you there's no such thing? There's no such thing. The Bible says all of our righteousnesses are as filthy rags They don't measure up. Oh, I know they're self-righteous people, but there's no such thing as self-righteousness because we don't have any. But yet, grace alone brings righteousness. In Abraham's life, we have two examples here in these first eight verses. We have Abraham and David. And you know the account of Abraham. The Bible says he believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. Now, in banking language, that means God took righteousness out of his account and he put it in Abraham's. Now, Abraham didn't have any. Abraham didn't have any righteousness in his account. Abraham was bankrupt. In fact, his accounts were closed. There was no way for him to even open an account, because to open an account, you've got to have money. He didn't have any. He didn't have any righteousness. You say, why is righteousness such a big deal? I'll tell you why. It's what heaven traffics in. It's the requirement of God to get to heaven. Now, there are a lot of people who think they're going to get to heaven because of their religion. I've got news for you: the only way you get to heaven is by God's righteousness. And you must have the righteousness of God that comes through the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now here's what God did. Because Abraham believed God. God took a debit out of his account, made a deposit in Abraham's account. Now the righteousness that God had, he now put in Abraham's account. Now Abraham is righteous and never lifted a finger. He did it apart from his own. Listen, there was nothing he could do. Abraham, that that word counted, there's three words here in Romans 4. Mark em when you get a chance. It's the word counted, the word reckon, and the word impute. Counted, reckon, and impute Now, all three words in this chapter mean the same thing. It means to transfer from one account to another They all mean that God takes something from here and puts it over here. God does it. I didn't do it. Abraham didn't do it. David didn't do it. God did it. God takes and makes the transfer. Now, I want you to see in verse 5, it says, But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness. That's a word of hope right there. That's an expression of hope. God justifies the ungodly. By the way, there's no other kind for him to justify. Do you know you're all ungodly apart from Christ? We all are ungodly apart from Christ. One of our dear friends reminded us of something last couple weeks ago. She was Josiah's Sunday school teacher, and uh Josiah got in a very big heated argument as a little boy in Sunday school because she was saying and teaching that everyone's a sinner. And she made the statement, she said, even our pastor's a sinner. Boy, that riled his feathers. And he said, My dad's a pastor. He's not a sinner. And I'll never forget after that, she said, You need to talk to your son. He thinks the pastor's not a sinner. And I had to talk to him and disappoint him and let him know that yes, I am a sinner. I've got news for you. Every last one of us are ungodly unless we're justified by the righteousness of God in Jesus Christ. And that comes by faith. Here's Abraham, and he believes God, and God justifies the ungodly. That's shouting ground. God 's people ought to be rejoicing this morning that God has justified your unrighteous person by the precious blood of Jesus. And he's made you what you couldn't be without him, but he's made you what you'll forever be because of him. Righteous in his eyes. I'm telling you we get excited about a lot of things. You went home and I don't know, they still do this the um Sweepstakes, what were they called? Fellow used to get on TV and talk about getting it in the mail, you know. You know what I'm talking about. Some of you older ones, it's coming back. We all have the same problem around here. We're just We're aging, but not gracefully, it appears. But anyway, I I'm telling you, I I do believe there'd be some enthusiasm. You know, your team plays and wins, and oh, you you don't just say, oh, that's wonderful. I've seen some of you. But we're justified. God justifies the ungodly. You're not d doomed and damned to hell, and deservingly so. And God's infinite grace. Saves us for all eternity. That's a big deal. That's a bigger deal than anything going on in this whole country today. Or will go on in the days ahead. It's the greatest thing of all things that God justifies the ungodly. And he does it by faith through grace. It's grace alone that brings righteousness. You're not a recipient of grace because you're a Baptist. You're not a recipient of grace because you're a Methodist or any other denominational title you wish to wear around your neck. You're not a recipient of grace because of your religious devotion. I read my Bible, pray, go to church, do good, all these things. You're not a recipient of Listen, you know who receives grace? Those who by faith believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. God transfers from his account righteousness, and he puts it on yours, and you get it for all of eternity. That's a mercy. That's a mercy. But now he talks about David. Why does he throw David in here? It's enough that he talked about Abraham and how Abraham believed God and it was counted unto him for righteousness. By the way, Abraham did that before he ever left the Ur Chaldees. He's still living down yonder in the land of paganism. And he believed God. But then he says, David. What does David say? Verse 6: David describes the blessedness of the man. Unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works. And then he starts quoting from Psalm 32. Why did David write Psalm 32? It's called one of the penitential psalms. It was a psalm David pinned after getting right with God when he had sinned with Bathsheba. David had done three things when he committed that sin. David coveted, David committed adultery, and David murdered. Do you know two of those? He broke three of the Ten Commandments, and two of them demanded death. Two of them were by law, by God's law, required the death penalty. And you say, Well, I know why David didn't get the death penalty. It's because David was the king. That's not true. Oh, David was the king, but David did not receive the death penalty, not because he was the king, but because of the king he implored. He went to the king of heaven. And you know what he said? God, I've sinned. I've broken your law. God had mercy. Someone said that he threw himself at the feet of the grace of God and said, God have mercy. And what did God do? God forgave his sin. God blotted out his sin. Remember when Nathan approached him in the throne and David had tried to cover his sin? How many of you know you can't cover sin? And here David had tried to cover his sin, and he found out you can't cover your sin. And Nathan said to him, I bet that finger looked ten miles long when it fell down across David's nose. When Nathan said, Thou art the man. Remember when the Holy Ghost said that to you? Thou art the man I remember the glad day when the convicting work of the Spirit of God pointed the finger and said, Thou art the man. I wasn't a man, I was just a boy, but I still remember hearing that voice of condemnation, Thou art the man. And what did David do? David replied, have mercy. And I'm glad the report came just as quick as the condemnation came. You're forgiven. Your sins forgiven. I've got news for you today that grace alone can forgive sin. Grace clears the record. Grace washes away the stain. Uh was it Roloff that used to sing um that old song, Deeper Than the Stain Has Gone. Do you remember that song? Oh, I'm glad the blood of Christ goes deeper than my stain. My stain was right deep. It went right down to the very heart of my being. But the blood of Jesus went deeper and goes deeper. The grace of God reaches further. Here's what David said in Psalm 51. He said, Thou desirest not sacrifice, else would I give it. Thou delightest not in burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart. Oh God, thou wilt not despise. I've got news for you this morning. The grace of God comes to those that are broken over their sin and their need for a Savior. And my friend, God, don't turn a blind eye or a deaf ear. To a broken sinner who acknowledges their need for a mighty Savior and says, I can't do a thing for it, I can't I can't pay you, I can't give you anything, all I can do is plead for mercy and plead for grace But I'm glad there's grace available for that sort of thing. And God saves to the uttermost those that come to God through him. It's freely bestowed. It's freely bestowed. Abraham and David teach us that grace alone brings righteousness. Now, when I look at Abraham, I see a man who failed God. And the Bible don't hide it. Did you know that? The Bible don't hide it. The Bible tells the tale. The Bible tells of his lies. The Bible tells Of his failing to believe. The Bible tells how he says, no, that's my sister. That's not my wife, and tries to, you know, you think about this, the woman's 90 years old And he's worried about somebody taking her away. She was it says at night she was fair to look upon. I don't know what beauty secrets, old Abraham's wife had, but they must have worked. But he lied. He flat out lied. And God showed up. Abraham wasn't a young Christian, if you will, then. Abraham was a mature man. You know, don't ever think for a moment you're in safe territory as a Christian. Some folks like, well, I've been saved 40 years. I don't have to worry about sin. I had a man tell me one time, he said, I hadn't sinned in 20 years. I said, shame on you, just broke your streak. Because you just sinned. You lied. We're all in need of God's grace. Abraham to me is not a picture of grace, and David even more so. You look at the life of David. And David was not perfect by any stretch of the imagination in his life. There were failure, there was sin, there was wrong in his life. But God declared both men righteous. I lift another man before you who's not in the text but he's in the scriptures, and that's this man named Lot He puzzles me and makes me ponder about the grace of God. Here is a man who vexed his righteous soul living down in Sodom A man of sordid character, a man with it seems, of distorted choices and principles, and yet God in heaven says it in Hebrews 11, he had a righteous soul. Now here's what I've got to say to you this morning. When God declares a man righteous, it don't matter what man declares about the man. God's declaration settles the whole story. Now if it was up to some, I know this, I wouldn't get in. I had a man tell me one time, he said, I wouldn't give you air and a jug if you were dying. I said, thank you kindly. But the reality is, listen, it's not up. Look, I'm not going to heaven on your opinion. And you're not going to heaven on mine. Your brother, your brother, sister, and decide to say what they want to say, but I'm going to tell you what, God alone, through grace alone, gives righteousness. To sinners who believe. Number two, grace alone requires. Let me say it like this, even stronger. Grace alone abolishes works It abolishes works. From verses 9 to 13, he talks about the Hebrews idol circumcision. And it was an idol to them. It became an idol to them. How many good things God gave Israel became idols. They turned many a thing God put in their hand, put in their life, and they turned them into an idol. And this thing of circumcision became an idol. But again, the Bible makes it clear in verses 9 and 10, he addresses the past of Abraham and says, when was he declared righteous? Before circumcision or after? Well, you have to study a little, and if you'll just mark these down and read them sometime, in Genesis 15, 6, here's what the Bible says Abraham believed and it was counted unto him for righteousness. Now you've got to read to Genesis 17, verse 10, before God gave him the covenant sign of circumcision. How much time? Fourteen years. So, fourteen years before Abraham was ever circumcised, God said, You're a righteous man. Do you know why? Because works can't bring righteousness. I f listen to me a minute, will ya? In our stripe of of churches, which we're glad to be Independent, meaning not that we're ignorant. We're just independent. We believe in the autonomy of the local church. We're Baptists because we believe Baptist distinctives are New Testament distinctives But oftentimes in our circle of churches, we get this idea that the more we do in the keeping of whatever we're told to do, the more righteous we actually are. And may I submit to you that's a lie out of hell? You don't work up righteousness? There are unsaved people that are doing things that saved people should be doing. And they're trusting in those to save them. There are people that are that are are trying to live a lifestyle and and they've let the lifestyle become the idol. That lifestyle's become their idol. I I I do this and that and the other, and you fill in the blank. I'm not interested in that this morning. But you fill in the blank, whatever your little list is, and because I do all of that, I'm righteous. I've got news for you. Righteousness does not come through the works of men. Righteousness is a gift of God. And the grace of God abolishes all of the need for work. Justified before the Lord, not by what I do. I used to work with the guy, fact brother he was a brother in the Lord and and we dug graves together uh up there in the north and And Roger was his name and I'll never forget one evening that we were taking our lunch and and sitting there just waiting on the uh funeral to be finished so we could go finish our job and And uh he was sitting there and he just started crying and and and boy he was real upset and it was unusual for him. And I said, What's wrong, Roger? He said, You know, I hadn't read my Bible in two days. He said, I feel so guilty about that. You know, I think I'm just going to bow my head and ask the Lord to forgive me and to save me again. I said again. Oh yes, he said. Now he didn't wasn't part of our church and he he went to another place and and uh he had been taught that that it was up to him to maintain his own salvation. That he had to do a certain thing, and they had to do as he did those things, they brought peace to his heart. And I had the opportunity to talk to him about those things and show him from the word of God that look it's not what I do that declares me righteous. It's what Jesus has eternally done that brings righteousness into my life. Listen, it abolishes all. Now you say, hold on a minute, preacher, are you telling me that I don't have to lift a finger to obtain the righteousness of God? I'm telling you, it's either all of God or it's all of man. It can't be one or other. It's either by grace or it's by works. And my Bible says it is by grace you are saved through faith. That not of yourselves. It's the gift of God. It's not of works, lest any man should boast. It is the grace of God alone. And God's grace abolishes it. So you say, why? Why the sign then? Why did he give them this right, if you will, or responsibility of circumcision? Well, verse 11 tells you. Says it's a seal of the righteousness of faith which he had. A seal. Now what are you talking about? I'm talking about a sign. The the the circumcision was nothing more than an outward sign of an inward covenant. It was an outward expression of what grace had already wrought in his heart. Can I say to you that I think we have some of those examples in the New Testament, one being baptism? Baptism is an outward expression of an inward transformation that's already taken place. I'm identifying with the Lord Jesus, acknowledging, and by the way, my friend, if you've been saved and not been baptized, you're being disobedient. It's a first step of obedience to the Lord. When a person gets born again, the next step is to believe the Lord and be baptized. Go and say, I'm a follower of Jesus Christ. You're not what your sins are already washed away. Some people think, well, that washes my sin away. And there's even silly songs talking about how the water washes sin away. That's foolish. There's not enough water in this world to wash your sin away. Only the blood of Christ can wash sin away. If you have not been saved and you get baptized You're just simply going down a wet, a dry center and coming up a wet one. You're not getting anything forgiven or washed away. The only way to have your sin forgiven is through the Lord Jesus. Now listen, please. What I'm saying is that this this outward sign had a role, it had a purpose. God said, this is the mark of my people. This is a mark of my following. They're identifying with that covenant, with the sign, with an outward symbol. And I'm saying to you that our obedience to the Lord in the waters of baptism, that's where it starts, but further as a Christian, as you live the transformed life, not because you live it, but because Christ is living in you. You give further evidence, those outward signs of the inward transformation that the Lord has done a work. In fact, it's so important the Bible says by their fruit you shall know them. Now there's a lot of talk in Christianity in this country that's not worth a hill of beans or a row of pens. There's a lot of talk in Christianity. Well, I'm a Christian. Well, I could stand up here and say I'm a parrot. But it don't put feathers on my back and claws on my feet. You don't you don't just become something because you say you are. There's got to be proof. I've got hens just over there on the property. And they're supposed to lay eggs. I here I've decided they're getting lazy. They're getting they're living too good or something And I think what I'm going to do is get me a KFC bucket and put their pictures on it and set it outside the pen and uh just every once in a while point to it when I walk by. Maybe they'll get the point and get busy But as bad as I want to if if I wanted to lay an egg, I couldn't lay an egg. You know why? Because I'm not a chicken. I can try and strain and do what I can't do it. But they can. You know why? Because they're a chicken. And a person who says I'm a Christian tries to live the Christian life can no more lay an egg than a person who's not a chicken because they don't have that nature inside of them. Any man being Christ in New Christian, some of you tried to live for God before you ever met God. You tried to be a Christian before you ever made a Christian. You tried to do all the things Christians are supposed to do before you ever got born again. And I've got news for you. That's a prison house. That's torture. That listen, you know how you live for Christ, you meet the Lord Jesus Christ. And the grace of God makes you a Christian. And it's not a matter of you trying harder and doing better. It's a matter of seeing that living principle of Christ in me, the hope of glory. And so he gives the sign, he gives the seal, if you will, and he makes it quite plain in verse 13. He says this the promise that he should be heir of the world was not to Abraham or to his seed through the law. But through the righteousness of faith. You know what he's simply saying, it's all of grace and none of works Always. It's all of grace. Be it Abraham, be it whoever, he said it wasn't through the wall. By the way, if this were not the case, then some would be excluded. If it was through the law, the Gentiles have no hope. Because the law bars the doors. But thank God, He made a way through grace for all men to be saved. Under works, everything depends on man. You say, but it's just one work. I don't care if it's one or ten. If it's a work, it's a work. But under grace, everything depends on God. That's why we joy in such a salvation. A salvation by grace. You remember what he said? Let me just go back just a minute in verse 2. If Abraham were justified by works, he hath whereof the glory, but not before God. If he did something, if he did one little thing to lift a finger to work towards his salvation, he would have something to boast about. But you know what the cross does? It strips you of all boasting. Do you know what grace does? Grace takes every occasion away to say anything, but to God be the glory and to God alone. No man can say, no man can say, I helped the Lord. No man can say that I contributed. The only thing. Look, you go back through the Bible, Adam and Eve. Save by grace. Only thing they contributed was their sin. God killed the animal. God provided the covering. God made the clothing. And Abraham forward. It was all of God. And I'm saying to you, if you're saved by God's grace here this morning, every one of us are stripped of any glory. The only thing we can do is say, God alone save me. He did it through the Lord Jesus Christ. I can't boast of tears. I can't boast of prayers. I can't even boast of my repentance. I can only boast in the work of Jesus Christ and his amazing grace that saved a sinner like me. That's all I'm boasting about. And you know what that does? That puts us all on the same ground. Let me hurry and say this, number three, and I'm through. Grace alone is accessed by faith alone. Grace alone is accessed by faith alone. The Bible tells us here in Romans chapter 4 and In verse number 16, therefore it is of faith that it might be by grace. It's of faith that it might be of grace. You'll notice the simple command is believe. It's faith that brings man into favor with God. Let me help you with something, dear Christian. Do you think you're in more favor with God because you do all the things you think you should? Oh, I'm in favor with God because I'll tell you what, I carry a King James Bible. I carry a King James Bible. I study the King James Bible. I believe God's preserved his word. But that doesn't obtain favor. I'm not nowhere in my Bible am I told that obtains favor. I know, don't don't think I'm a heretic. I feel it. You don't have to say it. I feel it. Well, I I'll tell you what, I'm an independent, fundamental, premillennial, Bible even mission-minded, devil hating Make your list. And I got favor from God because of what? No, no, no. Not at all. Do you know where favor comes from? Favor comes because we believe God. Faith. The Bible says without faith it's impossible to please Him. Oh my friend, a lot of this foolishness that plagues our religious circles would burn up in the white heat of truth if we would just get back to our Bibles and understand That it is by faith righteousness is conveyed and favor comes from God. Abraham did nothing but believe, and God made him righteous. Faith links us with grace. It links us with grace. Isn't it amazing the technology we have today? And how you can control so many things from your phone. You you can like right now I can turn on the air conditioner. Uh turn it off, it's always on. I can turn off the air conditioner in my office from my phone I can do that over there. The other morning we woke up in Sanford, Maine. And the first notification was air conditioner on. And I thought, well, I'm not there, so I better turn that off. And in Sanford, Maine, down here in Elton, Maryland, I shut my air conditioner off Somehow or another, there's technology that links it from there to there. And what I'm trying to say is this is that up in heaven there's grace. There's favor that comes from God. Down here on earth are men. What links grace with men? I'll tell you what it is. It's called faith. For by grace are you saved through faith. When you believe, oh my friend, there's a link made towards heaven, and the grace of God becomes available to you, and it's not just saving grace, that's the starting point, it's grace all along the journey. There's grace for trials and grace for loss and grace for trouble and grace for burdens and one day when we get ready to make our cross into glory there'll be grace to go home to God and it's all started by faith. By faith. Grace alone is accessed by faith alone. Changed the life of Martin Luther when he realized it The grace of God met him in that awful place of Roman bondage. And he understood it's not the crawling and suffering and the praying and the torture and all of the outward externals. It's by faith. We're justified by faith. We see the role of faith in bringing grace. Someone said, What is faith? I'll tell you what it is, taking God at His Word. That's just it The preacher is a man I quote a lot. When he was a boy, here's how he got saved. He tried he was a troubled man. He was a troubled young man. And he thought, did I pray enough? Did I weep enough? Have I repented enough? And it was not until he heard a simple lay preacher stand and say, Look unto me. And be ye saved. And the man exhausted his message in just mere minutes, but he said enough to get a man saved. And he said, I understood at that moment that it was not in my prayers or tears or repentance or the altercation of my behavior. It was simply in believing and looking to the Lamb of God Who died for my sin. And he said, When I looked, I lived. And can I say to you this morning, you've got to look before you'll live. But if you'll look, you'll live. Just take him at his word. Just take him at his word. Someone walked up to you today and had the keys to a brand new car and said, I want to give this to you. And you say, Oh no, I no, you don't, I don't want to do you don't want to take it. I guarantee you, you there'd be some hesitancy and some wandering about what's up. But when it finally dawned on you and you get out there and put the key in the ignition and start it up And drive away, you realize, hey, I'm just going to take them at their word. Now, the gift is only as good as the one who gives the word. Sometimes to relax I like to watch cops on TV. And uh you know it don't get me relaxed. It makes my I'm with I'm I'm with those guys. I might chase them man, get them, man. But I'm amazed at how many people steal cars and say, So and so give it to me. Well what was his name? Fred, I think it was his name. You mean somebody walked up to you, gave you this card, you Yeah. And I thought they got more faith than the people I preached to on Sunday morning. Because they just simply take them at their word and take the keys and go down the road. I'm telling you something, you've got the keys to something better than a car You've got the living word of God. You take it at His Word. God doesn't stutter or stammer. God speaks plain, and you can believe the Bible and rest assured and stake your eternity on what God says in this book. Faith alone, grace alone, brings us into the family. Now look, here's the conclusion. He writes it for you plain. Verse 23, 24, and 25. Now it was not written for his sake alone that it was imputed to him, but for us. Get a hold of that. This is for us. This is for you, friend. This is for you, my dear lost friend. This is for you, brother, sister. This is written to us, to whom it shall be imputed if we believe on him that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead. Who was delivered for our offenses and was raised again for our justification. There's the gospel. Christ died for our sin, was buried, and rose again the third day. And he says when we believe on what Christ did and take him at his word, he grants righteousness. Notice, he confers it, he deposits it in your account. As a young man, I struggled with the assurance of my salvation. I heard people get up and say, Well, when I got saved, I wept for three days. I didn't do that. When I got saved, I shouted and run and I didn't do that. When I got saved, I felt a burning in my soul. And I mean, you've heard them, you've heard all those stories. I l I grew up to find out not everything people say is so. Anyway Uh praise God for the day. Old Jack Pierce took his Bible, an old ex-marine, my youth pastor. He sometimes had more temper than he had truth, but he loved us. And he took this Bible and he said, I'm going to tell you something. You'll never find assurance in all of that. He said, 1 John says, these things have I written unto you. You want to know you're saved? Find out what he said. And you'll find assurance. And then here's something else he said. He said, Then just believe it. I said, What do you mean, just believe it? He said, just believe it. It's not deep. He had enough marine in him, he said, come on, man, don't be a dummy. You know. He was just plain and honest. He said, just believe it. God doesn't tell lies. He don't play games. He doesn't screen you on. He's not holding something out here like a little carrot on a stick. No, no, no. You can take every word of God to the bank and cash it because he's good for it. The Bible's true. Your faith and my faith must rest on what God has done. Just take God His word. You may be sitting here listening to the broadcast and you're lost. You've been waiting on something. I don't know what it is, a sign, a sin. You've been waiting on a feeling. You've been waiting on something. But listen, you need to stop waiting and start listening. He'll save you if you'll take him at his word. Come to the Lord Jesus by faith. It's not in the you say, but what if I prayed the wrong prayer? It's with the heart man believeth unto righteousness. And with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. A dear friend of mine told me what he prayed. It was as theologically empty. It wasn't too pretty. Quite frankly, I'll tell you. Pulled on the side of the road. God had took his wife home. She was a Christian. He wasn't. He laughed at her, made fun of her. She suffered from the effects of diabetes, died 36, 7 years old. Left him with a little girl to raise. And the Holy Ghost started breaking that old hard man's heart. He pulled on the side of the road. She'd been preaching to him all since he got married. Others had preached the gospel to him. Wouldn't you know it? God would put somebody on the machine next to him who was a Christian. Boy, when God gets after you, you just can't get away. And that man preached the gospel. He goes home, should preach the gospel. And here's what he said. He said, I pulled over the solid road. And he said, now Lord, I don't know what you can do with the likes of me. But here I am. Now listen, fruit was visible from that point on. He was a changed man. He said he knew more and got home than he thought, you know, I need to get I need to get that Bible at my wife's and start reading it. Then he said that very Sunday, he said, you know, I need to get this little girl in church. There wasn't no Bible preaching church to go to. There's a bunch of Christians meeting in the RCMP barracks. And he heard about it. And he said, I think I'll go there. And he said, I walked in, he said, it was the weirdest moment in my life. He said, here I was, a rebel and hated God, and now the Lord had changed me, and I got this little girl, my wife's just newly went to heaven and I walk in and he said there they sat. He said nobody there was under eighty. I think there was about seven or eight of them and they were sitting around. And basically he said they looked at him like, What are you doing here? But God was doing something. God was doing something. I'm saying to you, friend, it's by faith alone and by grace alone. Grace is accessed by faith. You don't have to kneel in an altar You don't have to sign a card. You don't have to hold somebody's hand. You don't have to shake someone's hand in agreement. Do you know you can be saved right where you sit? Moment of time. Wherever that may be, you don't have to be in this building. I heard from a dear sister this week, and she God saved her. I believe God saved her before she ever got up. She came to the altar and prayed. But God met her before she ever got the altar. That moment that heart turned. God saved her by grace. Are you saved? Have you just simply took God at His Word? Preacher, that's too easy. Isn't that wonderful? Isn't it wonderful that he made a way for people that need an easy way? But don't think for a minute it's cheap. Cost him everything. The very best of heaven bled and suffered, became your sin. Died in your place. My place. Thank God he didn't stay dead. He got up out of the grave. Not cheap. Oh no, it's never cheap. It's free because you couldn't do anything to get it. Except belief. Will you believe? Dear Christian? Are you building on a house of sand? We get saved by grace, and then we go on and act like everything else is up to us. And I've got news for you: you live for God just like you got saved. By faith, through the grace of God. You want to kill self-righteousness in your life? Understand that if there's anything good in you, it's there because of him. In my flesh there dwells no good thing. Nothing. Your flesh and mind's corrupt. Utterly. Devastatingly lost. We're hopeless without him. But isn't it beautiful when God picks up an old sinner and starts making him like his son? You start seeing likeness to him. Sometimes those images that he's making like him start saying, Boy, I'm a pretty good lump of clay. And God has to go. Time to start over. But I'll tell you what he'll never do. He'll never throw it out. Say I'm done. What he started, he's gonna keep on doing until we're perfected in his presence, into his image. I found it's best just to yield to the Lord. Let him have his way. Christian, are you letting him have his way? What are you fighting God about this morning? Or what are you taking credit for that you got no business taking credit for? He alone deserves the glory. May the Lord search us and help us. Would you stand, please? Let's prepare for our invitation. You need to come pray. You just pray.