Bibles to Proverbs thirty-one. And I'm not going to read the whole section Verses 10 to 31, but I do want to read four or five more verses, and I want you to see something in particular. Proverbs 31:10 says, Who can find a virtuous woman for her price is far above rubies? And then to the end of the chapter. We find Solomon describing what it means to be a virtuous woman. There was something here that really stood out to me as I studied this. And it is the mention of her hands. You know there are seven references in this section that talk about the hands of a virtuous woman. Now, I've always heard it said, you can tell a lot about a man by looking at his hands Uh when I first went into the ministry, I'd been on the farm and different construction things all my life. And I remember after about a month of being a full-time pastor, of course I'm not in the field working, not out the Farm work and I shook my dad's hands and he says, Boy, I don't like the feel of that. I said, What do you mean? He said, if anything, take a grinder to those hands. A man's hands ought to be rough Well, there is something to be said about our hands. Our hands tell a story. You'll notice in verse 13 that she seeketh wool and flax and worketh willingly with her hands. There's her first reference. Skip down to verse number sixteen. She considereth a field and buyeth it. With the fruit of her hands, she planteth a vineyard. Verse 19. She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. She stretcheth out, verse 20, her hand to the poor, yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy. And verse 31, give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates. Seven references to her hands. In all of the Bible, this is the most references in one place. about any body part that we have, this hands, these hands of the virtuous woman. I believe there's a message in these hands. Let's pray together and then we'll study. Father, we bow our heads just now and ask for your help. I pray, Lord, that you will do a work in our hearts and help us to see the Lord Jesus. And I pray, Father, that you would use your word to challenge our hearts and instruct us more in the way of righteousness. We love you, and we thank you for your love for us, and thank you for this privilege to pray. And we ask these things in Jesus' strong name, and God's people said. Amen. Well, as you know, Proverbs 31 Beginning in verse number 10 down to 31 is actually a poem. And in the Hebrew language, it's an acrostic. Each verse starts with a letter, a corresponding letter of the Hebrew alphabet. Now, there are several of these in the Bible. Psalm 119 is one of those And each section starts with the corresponding letter of the Hebrew alphabet. And this was done to help your memory. This was done so you could take something important and hide it in your heart. Our program that we use here at Marinatha Baptist Church Academy is the ACE program. You learn to read by memorizing your letters. You learn your letters, A, B, C, D. You learn the alphabet. But with that alphabet, you learn a corresponding animal that represents that letter and a little jingle to go along with it. Because my wife used that with our children, I've got lots of those memorized. J is for a jaguar that drives a Jeep. But my favorite one, and one sometimes I feel like I resemble, is the letter A. The aging ape was out of shape because he ate and ate and ate. Now that gets in your mind in the letter A, buddy, you got it clear. And it helps your memory. Now, of course, in the Bible, it there's much here God wanted us to commit to memory. And Solomon knew the value of that virtuous woman and the importance of knowing just what it is to be a virtuous woman. And so this is orchestrated so that you can memorize it. Of course, again, that's all in the Hebrew. But As you think about the hands of this virtuous woman, I want you to think about these hands and how he describes them here. If you're making notes, I want you to notice that first she has diligent hands. Diligent hands. In verse thirteen it says, She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She doesn't have idle hands. She's got hands, as uh J. B. Phillips said, she busies her hands Mr. Phillips said that his wife always amazed him. He was an evangelist, traveled across Canada and the United States, born over in England, just outside of London. And he said everywhere they went, she was always doing something. He would drive several hundred miles a day going to different meetings, and he said she would be knitting or Or sewing or doing something with her hands. Her hands were always busy. And the virtuous woman has busy hands or diligent hands. Someone said that most women are queens of multitasking. It's always amazed me. I still have in my mind an image of my wife holding our children. And she's cooking a meal, she's talking on the phone, she's cleaning something, she's doing something about four or five things all at once. Now most of us men are the sort that we do one thing at a time. And if we have to do two things at a time, it's a little more difficult than just doing one thing at a time. But God has made her. God has designed the woman so that she can do those sort of things because her hands are to be diligent hands. You think about it, most of us sitting here have been receivers of the blessings of the diligent hands of a mother, a wife, or someone like that. And God in his goodness has let us know that virtuous woman is diligent. You know, Paul talked about it over in the New Testament, and he warns us about the importance of being diligent. Listen what he says. He's talking about the younger widows in the church. And he says in verse 13 of 1 Timothy 5, he says, and withal they learn to be idle Now by the way, nothing good comes out of being idle. Idol, he said, what do they do? Wandering about from house to house? And not only idle, but tattlers also in busybodies, speaking things which they ought not. Here's the remedy. Verse 14 I will therefore that the younger women marry, bear children, guide the house. Give none occasion to the adversary to speak reproachfully. You know what he's saying? Busy your hands. Get your hands so full that the devil don't have time to put anything in them Be diligent. So the virtuous woman had diligent hands. She has diligent hands. But look at verse 16. She considereth a field and buyeth it with the fruit of her hands. She planteth a vineyard Not only does she have diligent hands, but she has discerning hands. Discerning hands. You've got to remember in this culture especially this agrarian culture, an agricultural based people, that the responsibility of buying and overseeing fields and and tending to that part of life was primarily entrusted to the woman. And so she had to have a discerning nature about her. Will this field yield any crop? Will it produce any fruit? And you'll notice her discernment in her preparation. She buys the field, and uh she's got to make sure it's the right sort of field. I mean, if you know anything about growing things, you just don't drop uh a seed in any kind of dirt and it produce anything. The soil has to be right. It has to be the right kind of of of field. And so she prepares as she buys this field. And not only that, it says she plants a vineyard. Now, how does she plant a vineyard? Well, she didn't go down to the local hardware store and say, you know, I want to buy a hundred and fifty uh grapevines or uh olive trees or anything like that. She had to make clippings from her own. and reproduce them and root them and grow them. And so there was a great deal of discernment needed on her part. I know this, all of that was an investment for the future. She had enough discernment to know my family is growing and my the needs of our family are increasing, and so we've got to do something so that we'll be able to take care of ourselves and meet the need. She had that kind of discernment. She was wise enough to know, here's the principle, that today's activity brings tomorrow's prosperity. She bought that field, planted it, and understood that you don't immediately get gain. That comes down the road Oh, thank God for mothers that see that today is a day of activity to invest in my children, because tomorrow my investments will be seen. Every one of John mentioned his mother, and and every one of us sitting here or in this service are people, and we uh we bear a reflection of the investments You think about what you owe to mothers and grandmothers, godly mothers and grandmothers that made an investment in your life because they discerned enough that you know what? My children are important. My family's important. The life of my little family is more important than me living comfortably. And I'm going to make an investment today That it may not yield fruit until many tomorrows, maybe even after you're already in heaven. She had discernment You know, Timothy had a mother and a grandmother who made an investment today that yielded fruit in the future. The Bible says Paul talked about Lois and Eunice, and it and he said that they had unfeigned faith. And both of those lady, and you know what he said? He said, I believe you have it too. Now, you don't give faith like you give presence, but you give an example of what faith ought to be, and my friend, that's as important as anything. Because you've got a faith. You know, the problem with some Christians are they just have never been around too many real ones And thank God for some real ones. I mean I'm talking about Christians, real Christians, people who love the Lord and live for the Lord and put the Lord first in their lives. And listen, you know, you live that sort of thing around your children. You're making an investment in them so that they'll know this is what being a Christian is all about. She was discerning. She had discerning hands. You know, Paul talks about another group of women who are, he calls them silly women. Who are laden with their sin, captivated by lust, led astray by the enemy. This discerning woman is the opposite of those silly women I must say this, we live in a culture that magnifies silly women over discerning women. May the Lord help the church to be a counter-culture. Of what really is important in womanhood. Number three, I want you to notice not only did she have diligent hands, discerning hands, but she had dutiful hands. The Bible says in verse 19, She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. Now, he's talking about the equipment that would have been used To take wool and flax that he mentioned back in verse 13 and turn it into thread or to yarn, something that you could use and make things with and what have you. And so she worked. This is a labor. By the way, I don't know if you've ever seen some of the more modern uh looms where they they make this sort of thing and and uh the It's very labor intensive. There's a lot of work, not just from getting the wool and the flax, but from carting it and cleaning it and then Prepping it so that these it can be turned into a yarn or a thread that is useful. But you know what she did? She went about her duty faithfully She labored faithfully. She was always dependable in her line of duty. You know, I find it interesting that the Bible says in Proverbs 20 and verse 6, a faithful man Who can find? Now he's not talking about a faithful man as far as mankind, because the verse before it and after it speaks directly to men. In other words, he's saying, who can find a faithful man? As if it's not very abundant. But you know, search this Bible over and you'll never find that question asked about a woman I don't believe that's a mistake. There's no mistakes in this old Bible. But I believe it tells us that the tendency of women are to be faithful. That virtuous woman, especially, is a faithful, a dutiful woman. You think about in the life of the Lord Jesus And the faithful women who ministered to him, they are the ones you find around the cross. They are the ones you find at the empty tomb. What were they doing at the tomb? They were going there to do a job that was not glamorous, but they were going to do a job that was necessary. And they were coming to prepare the body or to add spices to the body, the decaying body, as far as they were concerned. They did they thought The decaying body of the Lord Jesus. Now we know his body didn't decay, but they didn't know that at the time. And so they were going to do a job. They were dutiful. Their hands were dutiful. They were faithful. My friend, the church especially owes a debt of gratitude to faithful women. Now we can carry on all we want to about the role of men, but the reality is there are many a church would not exist if it weren't for faithful women who are faithful. In a whole lot of places I've been in my life, oftentimes the women outnumber the men in a local church by a great margin. Faithful women. There are faithful women, I'm I'm thinking of some that are in heaven now that that their husbands weren't saved, and and mu uh much of the background and history of our church has been built on faithful women who came and brought their little children and had them under the sound of the gospel and lived for the Lord without the encouragement Or the assistance of the saved husband, they simply carried on. And you know what? They were dutiful with their hands And thank God for a faithful God who hears faithful prayers and who honors the faithfulness of those who commit themselves to Him and bless them with saving their children and their grandchildren and working in their lives. I'm just saying that the virtuous woman had beautiful hands. I want you to notice something else quickly, verse 20, she had devoted hands. She stretcheth out her hand to the poor. Yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy. You see both her concern and her compassion. Do you know what she was doing? She was caring for people who had nobody to care for. She had a heart of compassion. She was devoted to the Lord, and he had given her a heart of compassion. I think about the New Testament equivalent of this in Acts chapter 9. We don't read about her much. I remember as a little boy, we had a ladies' Bible class named after this person. And I thought, that's a weird name for a Bible class. Well, until I read my Bible, I didn't realize it was in the Bible. But in Acts chapter 9, we read about a woman, and her name, her name was Tabitha. But when you interpret it, her name is Dorcas. They called her Dorcas. And we had the Dorcas Ladies Bible class in my church growing up. Now, what's so special about Dorcas? Well, we read in Acts chapter 9 there that she dies and the church is just broken. They're weeping and they're crying. And especially a certain group of ladies, it says the widows Of that church came to Peter and said, Peter, look at the garments she used to make us. Look at the clothes she used to make us. Look at how she used to be good to us. And so apparently she had a heart for those that were left alone. Now, listen, that early church was full of widows because persecution took out a lot of the men. A lot of men were killed in those early churches and their lives were cut short, and you had a host of widows that made up the church then. But here was a woman, Dorcas by name. We're not told her age. We're not told perhaps she was a widow. We're not told anything other than that she made these little coats and garments for these widow ladies to relieve their suffering. Oh church, thank God for virtuous women who relieve the suffering of others. It might be in the field of nursing, it might be in the home, it may be in a place of sickness, it may be in a place where poverty has made life rough. But thank God for that heart of compassion that says, I'm devoted to the Lord and I want to love on these individuals and make their time down here less miserable as they walk home to heaven. She had devoted hands. Oh, listen, you and I owe a great deal. I hate to be personal, but I I've got to tell you, when my mother lay dying, I got to sit and I just held her hand Her hand had really diminished from what I remember and and I was just holding her hand, sitting by her bed. I don't know if she knew I was there or not, but I got to thinking about those hands Those hands had took care of me when I was sick. Those hands had fixed my hair on Sunday morning. I hated when she'd lick her finger and make my hair lay down. Any of you mothers do that? And those those hands, those those hands fixed my clothes. Always making sure, you know, everything was just so Those hands had labored. Those hands had done so much. And I found myself. I just picked her little hand up. I kissed her hand. I don't know if she knew what was going on, but I just had to say I I appreciate you, Mom. I'm grateful you used your hands in a devoted way to show compassion. I'm going to tell you something You got a mother. You may not agree with everything, but she did or said, but I'll tell you something, you ought to love her. Y 'all love her and y'all let her know you appreciate her. Because I'll tell you what, she took care of you when nobody else could. Thank God for that virtuous woman with devoted hands. And then I want you to see the dew as in the reward of her hands. Verse 31: Give her the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates. You know, the truth of the matter is, is that those hands are doing something that one day will be rewarded. One day it'll be recognized. It may not be today, it it certainly could be tomorrow or many tomorrows, but the reality is that those hands Will bear a reward. The works, it says her works will sing her praises. A couple of verses previous, it says her children will rise up and call her blessed. In other words, the work of your hands will come to an end, and the work of your hands will be recognized for what they are. The Bible's very clear what you do will eventually catch up to you, good or bad. What you do with your hands will will eventually Look, it's coming, it's coming, there's coming a day that it's all going to be recognized. Paul reminded Timothy in 1 Timothy 5, some men's sins are open beforehand. Going before the judgment, and some men they follow after. Likewise also the good works of some are manifest beforehand, and they that are otherwise cannot be hid In other words, they won't be forgotten. The works of those hands. You say, preacher, I'll be honest with you, I I've tried to raise my family for the Lord, and uh they're not living for the Lord, perhaps they don't know the Lord. Know this, know this, dear mother or grandmother, whoever you may be, know this, that your works will not go unrewarded There's a God in heaven who's going to see you get your due for the labor of your hands. It's another set of hands I've got to mention. Because really these hands that I'm going to mention now are what make the other hands I've talked about all possible. These hands are nail-scarred hands. These hands were nailed to an old rugged cross. And they were nailed to that cross so that people could be saved by the grace of God. Jesus shed his blood to pay your sin debt. And that included the nailing of his hands to the cross, his feet, his side pierced through, his head crowned with thorns. It was there Jesus died and took our place on Calvary's Dark Hill, suffered on our behalf, was taken down, dead. He dismissed his spirit and gave up the ghost. They put him in a tomb and three days later he rose up And listen, my friend, he gives eternal life to whosoever will call on the name of the Lord. Those hands are what make the virtuous woman virtuous. Know this. A person with problems with their hands have problems with their heart. Your heart is merely extended through your hands. You see, what I'm trying to say is that what you're doing with your hands is a reflection of what's going on in your heart. And the only way that you can be a virtuous woman, you don't learn this in school. You don't determine this simply on your own. You don't just grit your teeth and say, well, I'm going to do it. I'm going to just drop my head and plow straight through, and I'm going to be this regardless. I've got news for you. It won't work. The only way to be a virtuous woman is to know the God of virtue, and to know the God who gives this virtue. There is a God in heaven who will give you a new heart. There is a God in heaven who will give you a new name and who will write your name down in glory and who will change you and make you anew. And the problem is we often don't realize that what I need is not reformation. I need regeneration I don't need to be fixed up. I need to be made brand new. I need a new heart and a new heart. And I'm telling you, Jesus will give you that this morning. He will. If you'll but trust him. I don't come to him as a Baptist looking to be saved. I come to him as a lost, hell-bound, hell-deserving. Fallen, depraved sinner. Lord have mercy. And the beauty of my Lord is that He don't ignore pleas for mercy. He doesn't stop a deaf ear. He doesn't turn a blind eye. When a sinner says, Lord, have mercy, here comes salvation on its way. And he saves to the uttermost those that come to God through him, the Lord Jesus Christ. Your hands are just an extension of your heart. I know I've spoken about the virtuous woman, but the reality is this applies to all of us. All of us. And the only way for you and I to have diligent and and and to have discerning and dutiful and devoted hands and one day receive a due reward that we will be grateful for is that we let the hand, the nail-scarred hand of the Lord do something in our hearts. And make us what we can't be without Him. If you're here today unsaved, you don't have to leave today unsaved. You can believe on the Lord Jesus and be born again. You're listening to this broadcast, same goes for you. You don't have to be in these four walls. I'm grateful salvation will come wherever there's a sinner who turns to the Savior. And it may be there's some women who want to pray, who are saved, who know the Lord Jesus. Lord, I'm going to give you my hands. You know, really what we did with Little Brook is we just Acknowledged in a public way that Lord, she's in your hands. You trusted her to the Grub family But she really doesn't belong to them. They're stewards of what he owns. She's his. And Lord, we're saying that. Lord, here. We want you to know she's yours. And I'm saying to you this morning, there may be some men and women who just need to take their hands and lay them on the altar and say, Lord, they're yours. Lord, take my hands and you do with them what you will. I want my hands to be the hands of this virtuous one who 's described in Proverbs 31. I want my hands to be hands at labor, so that when the day of reckoning comes I'll have no reason to be ashamed. I can simply bow my head and say, Thank God for wise use. of the hands you entrusted me with. What is it you need the Lord to do for you today? Whatever it is, He's able. He's able. You know, the Bible talks about lifting up those feeble hands. You might be a little weary here. The Bible instructs us to not grow weary in well-doing, but the truth is the reason it tells us not to is because it's so easy to do. We have a tendency to just grow weary and well-doing. Maybe you need God to put strength in your hands. You know I like this? There's a text of scripture that says He will strengthen your arms. That's a whole nother message. I better not even start that. Some of you look awful hungry. But the reality is there's a God who can put strength in those hands. Mom, you you tired, you wearied. Heavy, burdened, struggling. There's a God in heaven who can give you strength to go on. Dear brother in the Lord, perhaps you feel your labors are in vain. Get those hands, say, Lord, put strength in them. Put strength in them. And I've got news for you. He can. He gives power to the faint. And him that hath no might, he increaseth strength. He's able. He's able. Let's stand together as our brother's coming for the hymn.