Mama. The Lord is good to us, isn't he? And oh how we need to thank him for all that he has done. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to 1 Peter 4. First Peter chapter four and verse number eight My intention this evening is not to preach a good sermon, but to speak to you from my heart and what is on my heart. And something I pray the Lord will help us with. 1 Peter chapter 4 and verse number 8, when you find your place, would you stand with me and we'll Read the Word of God, I'll read. You follow along silently, please. And I'm purposefully breaking into the context to pull out my text. 1 Peter 4, verse 8 says, And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves. For charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Now, Father, we bow our heads now and ask for help. And Lord, I pray that you would especially be both with the preacher and the hearer, that our time here would be profitable. Lord, would you give us ears to hear what the Spirit saith? And give us help, Lord, to be simple, simply a channel only, and to bring the simple truth of this text. Would you stir our hearts like only you can? And dear Father, would you help us just now? We love you and thank you for loving us. Thank you, Lord Jesus. For all that you've done. Lord, you've done far better to us than what we deserve. But how we bless you and praise you for your goodness. We pray in Jesus' strong name and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. Here is a very powerful portion of the Word of God. And in verse number seven, we're told this that the end of all things is at hand. And in light of what Peter is saying here, he's saying the Lord is coming and this thing's about to wind up. And there's something you need to recognize is critical above all things. And that's when we come to verse eight, and he says, Above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sin. By the way, the word charity that is used here is that love of Christ that is shown through a Christian to others. I like what one writer said about it. He said it's strictly a biblical word. There's no other context to put this word in. Only in the Bible do you find the word or find the usage of the word charity, the love that Christ births in the heart of his people is unique to it to anything we know. Fact is, we don't know anything like it or comparable to it There's absolutely nothing that comes even near to this kind of love. And he says, have this fervent charity among yourselves as the people of God. I want you to think with me tonight about the importance of this Christ-like love among the brethren. Or this Christ-like love among God's people. We already studied what Jesus said. Jesus said, By this shall all men know that you're my disciples, if you have what? Love one for another. We've been commanded in the Word of God not to love in word, but in deed and in truth. And just speaking to you from what is burning in my heart, the reality is there's very little of this that you see among the average professing Christian of our day. We're known. Sure, we're known. In fact, you're known by many things. We're known by many things. We're all known by something, you know. We're all marked by something. Oh you're you're that you're that fellow. I we pulled the parking lot and said said to my wife and said, who drives that truck? She said, I can't keep I don't know who keep up with all that, you know, but a lot of times you're known by the vehicle you're in, you know. Oh I know him or her. They they drive that. We're known by a lot of things. The church, the people of God are known by a lot of things. And a lot of those things are emphasized to an undue level. We want to be known by, well you fill in the blanks. We we want to be known by uh whatever it is. You you come up with it. I my my point is this is that we're known by a lot of things, but how many are known by their love one for another. Yet the Bible says, and by the way, I can't emphasize near enough that you and I go back to what the Bible says and let it be our ruling God. Too many times there's there's the influence in man's opinion and ideas and movements, you know The movements among the church that that say, well, you know, some charismatic individual or some very influential personality Says, now this is what we need to be known by. And everybody who follows that person is known by that. Why not get back to the simple Bible and see what the Bible says we should be known for? And my Bible says, and your Bible says, if you have God's word in your lap, that we should be known by our loved one for another. This word is, again, as I said, not just a mere word that you can pull out of the world. We can't go to the world and say, show us what charity looks like. You and I can't look to some organization outside of the Lord's church and try to find a demonstration of this charity. This charity is something that's spirit-born. And God produced and demonstrated supernaturally through men and women who yield themselves to God. And when we get full of God, we're full of love. Because John said, God is love. So we see Peter speaking to these believers about something very crucial. I want you to notice what he says here. Number one, look at the preeminence of this love. He says, and above all things. Above all things, remember that the Bible doesn't exaggerate. Now you and I do. We'll say things like this. We say it's it's not, you know, I've not seen, I think Sarah told me the other day, she said, Dad, I hadn't seen the sunshine in 39 days. Those clouds blow in off those great lakes and she's a dark little place to live. I had seen I said now really I said I think I you sent me a picture a few days ago and the sun was shining. Well it didn't last long All right. Exaggeration. But we all do that, right? Talk to some of these men who go fishing and hunting. And you'll hear exaggerations. And not just that. We do that with everything. The Lord never does. Know this: if the Bible says above all things, he means above all things. You say, what does that mean to be above all things? It means to be first in the line of many. Oh, there are other things that we need to have among ourselves. We need to have the spirit of holiness and walk in holiness. We need to have peace. The Bible says, be at peace among yourselves. But above all those things, and and the word picture, if I understand it properly, is something that towers above all of those other things, like a mountain. When you see a mountain peak or you or a a chain of mountains, And and sometimes there's always one that's higher than all the others. And it towers sometimes it it towers uh much above all the others And it reaches up way up into the heavens, and it's higher than everything around it. And Peter says, under the pen of inspiration, above all things, above everything else that's deemed important. Have fervent charity among yourselves. Make this the priority. This has got to be first in the line of things. Know this: that loving right precedes living right. You 're a believer hear me. You're not living right if you ain't loving right. Oh, you may think you're living right, and you may look like you're living right, and you may dot all of your I's and cross all your T's. And do all of that. But if you're not loving right, you're not living right. Because the Bible says, above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves. Above all things. Oh, may God burn that word in our heart. Above everything, above everything, I believe we ought to live right. Don't leave this building and misrepresent what I'm saying. I believe a Christian ought to live a separated life unto the Lord We don't do that out of mere mechanics. We do that because we love the Lord and we want to represent Him well. We want to please the Lord, and you can't hold hands with the devil and walk and step with the Lord. There has to be a breaking, there has to be a separating, there has to be a removing of yourself from those things. But please hear me. That all of those things can be done in the absence of having fervent charity and still not please God I think we often favor those things that are visible, things that make us stand out. And perhaps we may be known. And I know in the day it was often uh you know we we put a lot of emphasis on things and and I believe women ought to look like women and men ought to look like men. I don't believe there ought to be a confusion. You shouldn't have to scratch your head and say, now what is it? You ought to be able to clearly see what a person is and and who they find , especially if you're a Christian. But dear brother and sister, let me say to you, none of those things can take the place of or be elevated above having fervent charity among yourselves. He did not say, above all things, have standards among yourselves, or above all things, do this, that, and the other. He said, Above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves. Above all things, that's preeminence. I believe this thing getting in order will make everything else get in order. Number two, notice the proportion. Above all things, have fervent Charity among yourselves. Fervent charity among yourselves What kind of love, what kind of Christ-like love are we to demonstrate? And what proportion? What measure? How much? Well, I love that word fervent. It's a two-fold word. It has two meanings. One is a boiling. We could liken it to a volcano, a volcanic. But in a good way, an erupting something that is abundant and and energetic. But then the other definition, which I believe tends to fit here even more, is a stretched-out kind of love. A love that that just goes on and on and on. Do you kids ever say, How much you love me? I love you this much You know? Kids were little. And Josiah'd get dramatic. He'd be this much and then this much and then push this much and he'd go around and round and around. How much? Well, the idea here is that we stretch it out. Can I say it like this? It is a love that goes the extra mile. That kind of love. That love that's willing to be inconvenienced. By the way, I I started studying another text and the Lord just wouldn't let me get light on it or peace about it. But the Bible says we're to love, walk in love. Ephesians 5 and verse number 2 says, walk in love as Christ also hath loved us. Do you want to know what kind of proportion we're to love each other? We're to love each other with that extra mile kind of love that will walk up bloody Calvary, lay down your life as a sinless one for all the sinners and and show himself as the propitiation for the sins of the whole world, I'm talking about a love that goes the extra mile. That's a proportion of my love. A love that's willing to sacrifice and be inconvenienced. You'll notice he says, have fervent charity, and don't miss this, please, among yourselves. He's not talking to the unbeliever. He's not talking to lost people. Church, he's not even telling Christians to love lost people. That's a given But he's telling Christians you're to love each other. And you're that there's to be a fervent charity. Let me just stop here. A lot of times I I sense it normally and I and I sense a tinge of it When we talk about love immediately, some of us fundamental folks, we start getting a little bit cranky. And we start putting our hackles up and we start saying, well Now just don't go overboard on that thing. Well listen, I'm not going to go any more overboard than the blessed word of God. But I'm preaching you the Bible. And the Bible tells me that I have a responsibility to have fervent charity above all things among yourselves. That I'm to love the children of God. That as a as a Christian, I'm under divine orders. I'm under divine orders to love his people. He says, have it among yourselves. Folks, you'll never regret loving God's people in a large way. You'll never regret it. I don't want to dredge up bad memories, but I seriously doubt there might not be one among us who would say, I wished I had loved better. Somebody who's gone now. If I could do it over again, I I'd like to go back and love them better and and and show them more of the love of God. I I think of some who've gone from our midst in my short time here. And they're already in heaven. I I wonder, I there are times you wish, man, could you not just go back and love them just a little bit better You'll never regret loving right , loving large, like we're being commanded here. Stretching out your love. He says very clearly here to have fervent, have fervent, charity. Among yourselves. Now we come really to the message, and that is this purpose. Look what he says Above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Can I stop right here and say I'm not talking about hiding evil? I'm not talking about that You say, Pastor, what what would happen if you found out someone was committing a sin that's a crime? What would you do? I'd pick up my phone and call the police. It's the right thing to do. I'm not talking about hiding sin. I'm not talking about covering the tracks. Of God's people who refuse to get right with God. Not talking about that sort of stuff But I'm talking about, the Bible says to me, that if I have fervent charity and have fervent charity among ourselves, it will cover the multitude of sins. So what's he talking about? Number one, he's talking about the reality. Can I say it this way? Saints sin. Sure as the sun rises. Saint Sin. I was reading in John chapter eight, and I tried to go there. The Lord just wouldn't it was going different directions, but John chapter 8, the Lord Jesus stooped down, wrote something on the ground, and he stood up, and he said to that crowd, He that is without sin, let him cast the first stone. And you know what they did? From the oldest to the youngest, they walked out. You ever think about why things happen like they do? I'll tell you what, living long enough will teach you a few things. I think the old ones left first. Because it was a whole lot easier to leave first than be last. And they had lived long enough to know they didn't have a leg to stand on. And they said it's time to get out of here. Because we can't throw stones, church, dear people. There's not a brother or sister sitting in this building or listening to this radio or on the internet or however it is you're accessing this There's not an individual who can throw a stone, saint sin. That's the reality. And whether it's you or someone else, sin is a reality. We heard about it this morning in Sunday school. I'm glad it's not only a reality, but bless the Lord for the remedy. 1 John 1 9, if we what confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You won't wear out God's promise. You might use it right well, but thank God it'll endure. Saints sin, that's reality. Not making excuses, not encouraging wrong. I I like how John wrote, he said That we ought to have the attitude there in 1 John that we're not going to sin. My attitude ought to be, I'm not going to sin. I shouldn't make the Bible tells me to make no provision for the flesh to fulfill it in the lust thereof. I need to make a purpose in my heart. I'm not going to sin. But here's what it said And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. Here here is here is is the beauty or the the the again one of those paradoxes of a believer, the purpose in his heart and the reality of life. And how they they seem to collide one with the other. But listen, my friend, know this. Know this. Your brothers and sisters will sin just like you do. So we see the reality that he says, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. I see something else here that 's really outstanding, is that he uses the word multitude. How many of you know this? The more people you know, and the more you know about people, the more sin you see. I think one of the things we've got to be careful about the longer we keep company. Is that we don't become overly critical one of another. Now I'm trying to introduce my message. I'm going to get to it. But I feel like we need to have something to stand on here before we go. The multitude, the great number. You know, sometimes you go somewhere new and you think, this is the most wonderful place in the world Everything's right. You know? You ever go somewhere and stay? I was thinking of a place we stayed in some time ago, and when I first walked out, I thought, this is the nicest place I've ever been in. And I sat down, I started looking around. I saw a crack here, and I saw something need to be fixed there. And before you know it, I'm sitting there. It's not my place. And I'm thinking, you know, somebody's got here break his leaves. And I'm making my list. And my wife's saying, hey, this isn't your place. Keep your mouth shut. Don't belong to you. Leave it alone. You know. Something needed fixing a shout out. I fixed that because it bothered me. And so I'm going to fix it. But the more you see each other. The more flaws you're going to see. Charity shall cover the multitude of sins But notice what the Bible says. There's a covering for that. That word cover means to veil or hide or to not impute. If I can say it in this way, in a sense, it blinds you. It blinds you. You ever see two people when they they first I don't know, I don't like the word fall in love, but I can't think of a better thing. I should say when they first step in love. And man, they can't seem wrong. That individual's perfect I mean everything they do and say, and I mean that it you would think that give them a feather and they'll be headed to glory. They're near an angel. That's how perfect they are. And I hope I'm not cynical. Lord help me, but I feel like saying, give them time. And I'll tell you, you'll see warts that were hidden. Huh? You know what love does? Hides it. Can I go to Calvary for a minute? You look in the mirror, you don't see what God sees. You see you and all your weakness, you see you and your frailty, you see you and your failings and faithlessness, you see you and all of your self. He don't see you that way. He looks down Andy and he sees a perfect man in his son. Love covers. Hides. Love don't see all the imperfection and love don't see all of the wrong. Love covers those things. In church the Bible says, and above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves For charity shall cover the multitude of sins. There's no way you can get along with God's people without this kind of love. No way. If you don't exercise this or get your heart full of it, by the way, it's not something you produce, it's something you pray in. It's not something that you can generate, it's something God has to put in you. As you yield yourself to the Lord and you walk in the light of truth, He He gives you this love, this charity we're talking about, and it it's demonstrated in your life. But listen to me, there's no way. Listen, you'll be an unhappy person all the days of your life because all you'll do is see the imperfections of others. Now I fear in our movement, our independent Baptist churches, and I'm by that by conviction. This is inconvenience to me. It's where God brought me in his word and by his spirit to bring me to that place. I believe if there's anything close to the New Testament, that's what I'd be. But I'm saying that among us sometimes it's almost like we make it a spiritual gift to be critical. I don't see any wrong yet, but you give me enough time, I'll find some. And we criticize. And we pick each other apart. Did you see how he came? Did you hear Did you hear what I'm talking about? And the next thing you know, you've got a spirit that's not the spirit of the Lord. There's some, maybe you're listening to me, you can't enjoy anything from God. Because you'll find something wrong with it. You know, hungry people don't pay that much attention. To the presentation of their food. They just eat it. I've I've I've grown to like Presentation. Pretty neat. My dad was never like that, and he married a dear lady after mom went to heaven. Her husband had gone to heaven. And boy, she was prim and proper. And poor old Daddy was rough as a cob. And we went to have a meal and my dad's helping her get everything ready and he's pulling this plate and that. She said, J. D. Grooms The children are here. We're going to eat from the good plates. My dad's like, A plate's a plate. But you know before he went to heaven he got all that straightened out, boy He didn't act like he was just off the pumpkin wagon. He got a little education. But you know something? We can turn our Christianity into a constant Barrage of fault finding and criticism I'm not talking about believing everything, hook, line, and sinker, being gullible. No, no, no. Church, I'm talking about the Spirit of Jesus Christ Who gave us a commandment, above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. I'm gonna tell you something, if you live long enough, you will want mercy You'll want somebody to love you through a rough patch. And I think what's killing some of our churches is that folk don't get loved through their rough patches. They get assassinated in them. And we point out everything. You know what? They wouldn't be in this shape had they not done that. Well, yeah, that's probably true. But they did it. What's the use to fuss about it? Help them get over it. Help them get through it. The great work of love is to help me show the love of Christ to another by not pointing out their imperfections. By the way, you're not the mirror. The Bible is. You're not the mirror. Sometimes we get in trouble. We we think we're the mirror. Well, you know what? They don't I don't like well, hold on a minute. What does the Bible say about it? And my job as a Christian is not to be a mirror. My job as a Christian is to be a servant of the Lord Jesus. Jesus displayed this. I tell you, this is one of those things that I'd like to have been a fly on the wall watching. When Jesus, after supper, took and laid his robe aside, put a towel around his waist, got a basin of water, and started washing feet. And you know the Bible tells us what happened in that meeting. It tells us it and something that that amazes me is the silence of the Lord as he served those men. He didn't pick up John's foot and say, what a nasty, dirty foot. You ever seen anything so ugly? I mean, where have you been, John? Did he do that? He just got busy cleaning it up. And then he gets to Peter, and you know the story or the account. Peter starts Lord, not my you're not going to wash my feet. And then by the time it's over, Peter said, Well, give me a bath. I need a bat-a whole bath. Just one extreme to the other. And our Lord graciously washed his feet. Washed his feet. You know what I found? It's hard to be critical when you're busy washing feet. It's hard to be fault-finding. I met a fellow one time, he said, I have a spiritual gift. I said, What is it? He said, I can discern things. Well, I found out he had a spiritual gift, all right. It was called fault finding. He could find something wrong in everything. And it was not a spiritual gift, at least not one from the Holy Ghost. I'll say this, you'll forever be, you'll forever be miserable. Until you learn to cover sin with love. Again, preacher. I'm not saying let evil go I'm not saying that you just drop all your standards and say everything's okay. I'm not saying that. I'm saying about living in the reality That you and I are fallen people, and as fallen people, we're going to require two things very frequently, and that is forgiveness of one another and the love of God in our hearts. There's times you're going to have to say, Will you forgive me? I was in a meeting that was called for a former pastor to come and speak to the church I was pastoring. And I inquired about his his reason and it was legitimate and he came. What do we have? Eleven members? Nine members? I can't remember, just a handful. And he came and he said, I want to ask you to forgive me. He said he had committed some sin and he said, uh, I blamed it on somebody else, and I'm sorry, I want you to forgive me. Now we learn later that his apology was not genuine. That was his problem, not ours. I'll tell you what, he helped us. Elderly lady, Sister Kellagrew, was her name. She's in heaven now. 93 years old, patched her roof the day before she went to heaven. Patched her roof. Three-story house. And she's up there putting tar on it because it leaked And she got up and she said, Pastor, can I say something? And she called the man by name and she said, I blamed you for that. I'm sorry. I talked about you here and everywhere else. And I'm sorry And another stood up and said, Well, I blame the deacons, and I know they're not here, but I I'm sorry for for doing that. I I'm sorry. Andy for about 45 minutes all I heard was, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm gonna tell you what Next time we gathered, it was like heaven on earth. I've never been in such a sweet place where God's love was so real and the Holy Ghost wasn't grieved And we went months after that, people saved in every service. And nothing had happened. I mean nobody had visit, nobody'd come. Who who wanted to be around a bunch of sour people who claim to follow Christ who are carrying stuff from fifty years ago and and and holding grudges against one another and are as mean as a sword-tailed cat. Who wants to be in that I'm saying, friend, God has an eternal purpose in commanding his children to have fervent charity among themselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Your home will be living hell until you learn to exercise what I'm preaching. Because you know what? You live with imperfect people. Now that's a news flash for some of them. But sir, you somet don't have a heart attack on me. Sir, you're not a perfect husband. Much as you want to be. You you dear ladies, I shudder to say it. Well you're not perfect either. My my pastor's wife told me years ago, she said, now when you get married, remember this. She said, the greatest challenge you'll face is two imperfect, selfish people learning to live together. She said, figure that out and you'll make it work. And I thought, you know what? That's true in everything. Imperfect, selfish people trying to learn to live together. And you know what helps us do that? Love. Charity. Charity covers a multitude of sin. Charity realizes the the the reality that hey this person is a fallen person and you know what they may need my prayers more than they need my advice They may need my encouragement at this moment more than they need my instructions. They may need that. They may need that. Above all things, above all things, may God help us to hear it, above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves. For charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Church, I really believe this is one of those cure-alls for what ails us. I believe it's the key to revival. I do. I believe it'll open the door of heaven, the windows of heaven. I believe it'll transform us not just in our hearts but in our homes and in the house of God if we learn to exercise this Christ-like love one for another. And cover the multitude of sin. You know, God's love can be such that you can see another, and the first thing you see is not their faults. But their faith. That's a brother. That's a sister. Instead of, oh yeah, that's the one who. That's the one that. I don't know about you. But the end of all things is at hand. We don't have time To be tearing each other apart. How many of you know you get enough blows from the enemy? Do you? You fight enough hell. To not have to take it from the brethren. Above all things. You know love's like Some kind of ointment on a sore muscle You know, Jason, when I was a kid, I used to think it was funny how these old people put stuff on their muscles. And now here I am on them old people putting stuff on my muscles. What few I got left. And don't it feel I mean some of that stuff that that feels good. Maybe you put it on, you're like, oh man , I can move again. And you know what love is? Love's at lubrication. We're imperfect people. We serve a perfect God. But in our laborings with and among one another, we've got to have fervent charity among ourselves. So that a multitude of sins are covered, and we see not our failings. Oh God help us. Not our failings, but the faith. You know, when Paul wrote his letters, he often, even the church at Corinth, he praised God for the good things the Lord was doing in their lives. He recognized it. Here's some you don't wouldn't think any good's ever been done. So have fervent charity. Church family, take this thing to heart and don't just let it lodge somewhere in your head. Put it into practice in your life. Love like you desire someone to love you. Show mercy. Exercise compassion. Help, don't hinder. And if for the life of you you can't find something good to say Do what Jesus did. When they brought that woman taking an adultery, they wanted him to say something. And he didn't say anything. The primitive quartet sing a song. I love it. I I wish somebody around here would learn it. But the song is this. When my faults and failures you see, go and tell Jesus on me. If you're my brother, don't go tell another. Just go and tell Jesus on me. And we'd be a whole lot better off if we just went and told Jesus. You say, but preacher, I see something. It's glaring. Get on your knees and go to God. And say, Oh Lord, please would you would you work in their heart? And like our brother said before, he's saying, you don't know what God's doing in a person's heart. And love them anyhow. Love them anyhow. It's gonna take God You won't do this by yourself. You won't do this sort of a religious thing. It'll take the power of God working in your life to love folks like that. But boy, it's sure worth it. When you can love, have fervent, fervent charity among yourselves. Above all things. Oh, may God help us. May God help us. Would you stand with me please and I tell you how I want to close this meeting tonight?