Word and look at the Gospel of Matthew quickly. Matthew chapter number twenty-eighths. And I want you to notice what the scripture says that in the end of the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week. Came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulchre. And behold, there was a great earthquake, for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone from the door and sat upon it. His countenance was like lightning and his raiment white as snow. And for fear of him the keepers did shake and became as dead men. And the angel answered and said unto the women, Fear not ye, for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. He is not here, for he is risen, as he said. Come see the place where the Lord lay. And go quickly and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead, and behold, he goeth before you unto Galilee. There shall ye see him. Lo, I have told you. And they departed quickly from the sepulchre with fear and great joy, and did run to bring his disciples word. There are three little words I want to draw to your attention and point out this morning. On Wednesday night in our Bible study, we looked at the three words. It is finished. Those three words were spoken by the Lord Jesus as he hung on the cross and died for the sins of the whole world. When he made that statement, oh, what a mouthful he spoke. It is finished this morning. Salvation is not a progressive work that you and I are involved in. It's a finished work that Jesus Christ did 2,000 years ago on our behalf. It truly is finished. But yet the scripture tells us this morning three more little words that I want you to see and take home with you. People involved in the program today have wanted to impress this truth on your heart and mind and have done so. Those three words are He is risen. He is risen. I appreciate how the Word of God begins with that little word he. Who are we talking about this morning? We're not talking about just anyone. We're talking about this Jesus of Nazareth. We're talking about this one who was the son of Mary, the disciple's teacher, the miracle worker, and the man who three days earlier had been nailed to an old rugged cross. This same Jesus that they cried, Crucify and Crucify. This same Jesus who said, It is finished, and then the Bible says he bowed his head and he gave up the ghost. This same Jesus is the Jesus who on the third day, as the Scripture says, at the end of the Sabbath, as it began to dawn, toward the first day of the week. Just about the time the sun was going to rise in the eastern sky, the Lord Jesus got up out of the grave. And I'm telling you this morning that sun uh never shone so bright as it did the morning Jesus got up. I don't know if it was cloudy or rainy like it is today, but I do know this. There was a sun shining that day. That was not hanging in heaven. It was the Son of God who got up out of the grave on this earth. He is risen. You say, who is he? Oh, there's so much to say about him. He's God's sacrificial Lamb. When John saw him for the very first time, John laid eyes on him and said, Behold, the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. Paul wrote about him and said he's the saved person's advocate. He's that one who's pleading our case up yonder in heaven. We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He's our intercessor, according to Paul in Hebrews 7, for he ever liveth to make intercession for us. But my dear friend, I want you to know today that He is the Savior of Mansoul. He's every lost person's hope. He's the remedy for the greatest problem that we all have, and that problem is our sin. You may be thinking, man, preacher, I got bigger problems than that. You may think you've got bigger problems than that, but the greatest problem every person sitting here has is what will I do with my sin? It's absolutely impossible for you to remove it. It is impossible for you, you can't get in a baptismal tank enough times to wash it away. It is impossible for you to absolve it yourself or to do anything on your end, in your power, to make that sin go away. But I'm glad to tell you this morning there is something you can do with your sin. Rather, there's someone you can go to with your sin. The Lord Jesus said, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I'll give you rest. I'll tell you, dear friend, this morning the church can't save you. And all of the religious deeds that you could do cannot save you, but the Lord Jesus Christ can. He's able to save to the uttermost them that come to God by Him. In Revelation chapter 1, he says, I am he that was dead, but behold, I'm alive, and I'm alive forevermore. And I have the keys of death, hell, and the grave. Jesus said of himself in John chapter 10, I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved. Jesus Christ is God's door to heaven and he hung him on the cross, but thank God he didn't leave him on the cross. He is risen. And because he is risen, you and I must reckon this morning with him and recognize him. I'm not saying to you today that Marinatha Baptist Church has the answer or is the answer. I'm not standing before you trying to tell you that I have got the answer, but I'll tell you who I know is the answer. And I'll tell you who the answer for what you need and I need today is, and it is none other than this same Jesus who was crucified, buried, and rose again the third day. And he is risen. I want you to notice that little word is The Bible speaks of the resurrection of Jesus Christ always in the present tense. You ever notice that when you read the Bible? It doesn't say he was risen. He is risen. You know what that means? That means he's alive. He's as much alive right now as he was when these words were spoken When the angel made the declaration, I love how Luke recorded it. Luke said, the angel said, Why seek ye the living among the dead? You know, I believe God has a sense of humor. That may upset your theology, but it's true. I mean, just look in the mirror every once in a while. You know God's got a sense of humor, amen. But God has a sense of humor, and those angels sort of said, Hey, hey, you're looking in the wrong place. You're looking for a dead Savior when He's not dead. He's not any longer here. He's living, He's alive. He is, the Bible says, risen. I want you to notice as you think about that little word is and the fact that he is alive, do you know he's as much alive right now as he ever was? He's alive today. Well, preacher, I can't see it. That doesn't mean he's not alive. You know, I've never seen electricity, but I've had it bite me a time or two. Anybody else know what I'm talking about? I was a little boy, they'd say, Don't touch that electric fence. What's in you that says, I want to touch that electric fence? I mean I was told not to, but I want to because I was told not to. And you know what I found out? There's something in that fence I can't see, but it's there It's real. It's alive. Beloved, can I say to you this morning, you can't see him with your eyes. You can't necessarily hear him with your ears, but he is alive. He's alive on the authority of the Scripture. He's alive. He's alive by the testimony of all those who were saved. He's alive by his very own testimony because he said I am he that was dead, but behold, I'm alive forevermore. He lives. Jesus lives. You say, preacher, what does he live to do? He lives to save. Hebrews 7 25 says he's able to save to the uttermost them that come unto God by him. That means if you come to him, he'll save you. That means if you come to him, he'll save and forgive your sin. He lives to do that. If I were to uh stand before you today and tell you, somebody might say, Pastor, could you save me? You know what I'd have to do? I'd have to bow my head and say, I can't do it. I'd have to bow my head and say, I'm unable to. If you were to come to Marinath the Baptist Church and you were to say to this collective body, Marinath of the Baptist Church, save me. Do you know what? If these people were honest, and I believe they are, they'd bow their heads and here's what they'd say. We can't save you. We can't save you If you were to go to the uh baptismal pool and get in the water and and say to that water, water save me, do something with my sin. Do you know if the water could speak, the water would say, I can't save you? If you were to i i if you were to light candles and we had candles across the front of this sanctuary and you were to light them and pray a prayer as the smoke from that candle ascended up, do you realize that will not save you? You say, well, preacher, if I go join the right church, then that that obviously will be the answer. Can I tell you this morning that won't save you neither? Listen, there is only one who's able to save to the and I like this to the uttermost. He's able to save and he does a real good job when he does it. And who does he save? Those who come to God by Him. When you come to the Lord Jesus Christ, you know what you're doing? You're not going to a dead monument, you're not going to a concrete statute. You're not going to someone laying in a tomb somewhere far, far away. You're going to a Savior who's alive and well. And he's able to save you. He's able to cleanse you. He's able to make you a new creature in Jesus Christ. Oh, he lives to save. That's what he lives to save. He lives to secure you. The Bible says he gives eternal life and will never perish. He's able to satisfy you. I'm gonna tell you something. There's a lot of folk believe there's some satisfaction somewhere out there and they just haven't found it yet. You'll die looking. You'll search for it in everything imaginable, you'll try for it, try to get it, try to obtain it, and you'll find out that it's just you just can't get it. But I'm glad to tell you Jesus said this in John 10, 10, I am come that they might have life and that more abundantly. You know what he said? He said, I'll satisfy you. The deepest longing of your heart I can satisfy. The the the the deep deep inner Trouble, the longing in your soul, the emptiness within, Jesus Christ is able to feel to the uttermost and to satisfy you completely. And you know what my Bible says? He lives to seek the lost. You know that's what he's doing right now? In Luke 19, 10, the Bible says, the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which is lost. He's looking. You say, Preacher, I don't know the Lord. Well, you're one of those he's looking for. He's on the search for. He said he'd leave the 99 and go look for that one out in the wilderness. And he's looking, what what's he looking to do? He's looking to save you. He's looking to change your life. He's looking to make you uh you say, preacher, I uh and I hear people say this, I can't be a Christian. Well join the rest of us. We can't either. Being a Christian isn't on your shoulders to do. Being a Christian is already been done by the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe it was Mr. Moody said that religion can be divided into two categories. He said one is spelled like this: D -O. Do. Just go out and do something. You gotta do something. And and and and if you do enough, and and my question is, how do you know if you've done enough? Where where do you get to the point you say, Well, I have done this and I have done that? Used to talk to a fellow, a mechanic, and I'd say to him, I said, You know the Lord, he said, Listen, I feed ten children uh overseas and I send money to that orphanage to take care of them to clothe them send them to school and all of that and I said, Sir, that's wonderful. I'm glad you do that I wish more people cared about folks and did those sort of things. But I said, Sir, I asked you, are you saved and going to heaven? He said, Well, I'm a member of this church, and he named the church. He said I I'm one of the stewards there. I I'm one of w what we'd call a deacon and and I look after the facilities and I care for the church. And I said, No, I ask you, are you saved? Do you know you're going to heaven He said, Well, I'll tell you this, ask around. He said, I help a lot of people. And I called him by name. I said, Steve, I know you help a lot of people. You have helped tons of people that I know personally. And you're good that way. And I'm thankful for that. But sir, have you ever put your faith in Jesus Christ? And you know what he could never see? He could never see that salvation is not spelt D O Mr. Moody said the other category is this one. He said this is where I belong. He said it's spelt D-O-N -E. It's done. It is a finished thing. Salvation is not something I'm trying to obtain. Salvation is something Jesus obtained, and He gives freely to whosoever will. Salvation's not up to me to get something. Salvation is up to me to know someone. When we trust the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, friend. He lives. Here's what he's doing. He's seeking to save that which was lost. Then I want you to notice that last little word. Boy, it's a big word too. It's the word risen. He is risen. Means he's no longer dead. Here's what the Bible says he is not here. Come see the place where the Lord lay. Why seek ye the living among the dead? Friend, listen, he's not in the tomb. Now, religions of the world have all sorts of places you can go and see the bones and the bodies of their founders. You can go and view where they're buried. You can go see where their remains lie. But I'm glad to tell you this morning, you might be able to go to a tomb, but she's still empty this morning. He is not there. He is risen. He is alive. On the authority, and by the way, if we had nothing else, we got the Bible, and the Bible's good enough. And the Bible says he's not here. And this morning, on the authority of the Word of God, you can say this He is risen. He's alive. He is not a dead Savior. He's not a dead God. Thank God He lives. Dear friend, I want you to notice something. Not only is it the testimony of the Scripture, it's the testimony of all who are saved. If you're a Christian, if you've been saved by grace, here's what you know. He's alive. He is risen. Everyone who knows the Lord Jesus as their Savior knows this in their heart. He's not dead anymore. I love this particular day of the year, but it's not just one day of the year, because he's alive every day. And every Lord's day we meet in this place for the express purpose to declare he is risen. We worship the Lord. We come and don't have a memorial or have a funeral or remember someone who is no longer with us. We come and worship the Savior who's alive and well. Why? He's risen That's the testimony of the Word of God. And the Bible declares it. And beloved, you are safe believing it You can believe every page, every word, every statement, every sentence, every truth. Say, preacher, I don't understand it, neither do I, but I believe it. The testimony of every saved person is he's the reason I'm saved. He saved me. He forgave me. Everybody who's saved knows that their sins are gone. They've been taken away. That weight and burden that you carried so many years prior Has been all taken away. Say, where did it go? It was put on Jesus. And Jesus Christ carried it and paid the debt in full and pardons everyone who will come to him by faith. And what does he do? He takes that burden away. A book from yesteryear was written called Pilgrim's Progress, and Pilgrim uh is a picture of a Christian coming to Christ, and as he made his way up a hill where a cross stood at the top. He said he knelt down at that cross, and when he knelt down, he said that weight that grew by the hour suddenly fell off his back, rolled down the hill, and went into an empty tomb, and he saw it no more. When you come to put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, do you know what happens? Your sins are forever forgiven and they're removed eternally. Oh, thank God for a forgiving God, a saving God, a God who put sin away. You say, how did he do it? With his own precious blood. He shed his blood to wash our sins away and put them away and they're gone. They're gone. Thank God they're gone They're underneath the blood, the little song says, of the cross of Calvary, as far removed as darkness is from dawn. In the sea of God's forgetfulness, that's good enough for me. Praise God. My sins are gone. There are two kinds of people here this morning. Two kind of people listen to this broadcast. There are people who are in their sin, and there are people who've had their sins removed. Forgiven. That doesn't mean we no longer sin. That means there's been a remedy applied. That means that there's been a solution found. That means that there's an answer in the and the answer is the Lord Jesus Christ. Now let me ask you today, where do you stand? Where do you stand with this man called Jesus? The most important question you'll ever put around in your head is the question of what will I do with Jesus? Pilate walked away saying, What else could I do? Pilate said, I washed my hands of this innocent man. Pilate thought somehow or another at the water would take away the guilt. Do you know what? The only thing that will take away your guilt is to come to God by faith and believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and He'll save you and cleanse you and change you on the spot. He didn't die for good people. He died for lost people. He didn't come to save righteous. He came to call the sinner to repentance. And my dear friend, if you'll turn from everything else that you're trusting, clinging, holding, depending, leaning, believing upon Accept the Lord Jesus and trust Him completely, totally, entirely, then you will find in Him everything your heart desires. You'll find in Him a salvation that's both full and free. Why? Because he is risen. He is risen. My friend, today, if you've never trusted the Lord Jesus, I want to ask you today, believe on him. I'm not asking you to join a church or I'm not asking you to do some sort of religious ritual. I'm asking you to come to the Lord Jesus Christ by faith. To trust in what he did 2,000 years ago as the remedy for your sin, because it is. To believe that what Christ did when he hung on the cross he was doing for you, he was doing for me, he was paying our sin debt in full. And to come turning from everything else. You see, sometimes we want to help him. He doesn't need my help. He doesn't need your help. Sometimes we say, well, I I if I could just do a little something, the only thing you can do is come as a helpless lost sinner and say, Lord, have mercy. But I've got good news for you. He specializes in mercy. He gives mercy to whosoever will. Oh friend, listen, there is mercy to be had for you today. You say, preacher, you don't know me or my background or whatever. I don't need to. Here's what I know: that the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. He's able to reach down to the deepest depths and the highest heights and save everybody in between. Thank God for a Savior like Jesus Christ the Lord. It is the greatest, and I appreciate what she said, true story ever told. This isn't a fairy tale. This isn't a religious fable. It's a living reality He lives. Or as the scripture says, he is risen. And because he is risen, that means he is returning. You hadn't heard the last of him. Can I be unspiritual for a minute? I like to watch Andy Griffith, okay? I like to hear people talk good English Living where I do now, I don't hear proper English anymore, and I'm afraid it'll change me. So I like to hear the good English on Andy Griffith. And you remember when Ernest T. Bass would go out of town You couldn't put that bird in a jail that he could stay in. I mean, they couldn't make him stay away, but he'd always say, you haven't heard the last of Ernest T. Bass. All right. You know what I'm talking about. Some of you look like you two you know, polishing your halos. Don't be polishing today. You know what that meant? He is coming back. He always did. He always came back. And and as silly as that is, I want you to know something. You have not heard the last of Jesus Christ. They thought the cross would finish it, but thank God it didn't. And they thought the the resurrection would be the end of it, but it wasn't. They thought the ascension up into heaven would be the end of it. It was not He said, if I go, I will come again. And every single one of us draw an air in our little lungs right now, one day somewhere, we'll stand and face him. You'll face him as your eternal Savior. Or you'll face him as the judge of your soul. You'll hear him say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of the Lord, or you'll hear him say, Depart from me, you workers of iniquity. I never knew you. Now, friend, what you do with him here determines what he will do with you there. But as many as received him to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. I'm telling you something this morning. Nobody's going to heaven because of who they are or what they do. Or who they know as far as the earth is concerned or they're associated with, we're going to heaven because of what Jesus did. And it's to him alone we give the glory. Friend, if you don't know him today, I highly recommend him. I urge you to call on him. Look to him. It's not the posture of your body or the words that you pray. I got a friend right now, he's up in heaven. But when he got saved, he pulled over on the side of the road and he bowed his head. His life was a mess. His wife had just died. He was going to have to raise this little girl on his own. And he his wife was a Christian. She had been telling him he needed to be saved. And as he drove home from that hospital, he pulled off on the side of the road and he said, Lord, I made a mess of things. But if you'll have me, here I am. That's all he prayed. You say, Why, preacher, that wasn't theologically, it was enough to get saved. It was enough for God to change his life. And he said from that moment forward he knew he had eternal life. Why? Because he had believed on the Lord Jesus Christ. Dear friend, whether you pray here or you go home or you get alone somewhere, I urge you today to call on the Lord Jesus Christ. Your business is not with me as far as your soul's concerned or anybody else sitting in this building. Your business was with the God of heaven. And if you'll do business with him, he'll do business with you. And he'll save you. Wherever you may be. The good news is you can call on him before you leave this building. You can call on him before you get up out of your seat. You can cry out for that mercy and salvation that He alone can give, and He'll save you on the spot. Why? Because that's the kind of God He is. He's come to seek and to save that which was lost. Please remember this. He is risen. And because he is risen, he is returning. And because he's returning, he must be reckoned with. Choose wisely. A. B. Simpson said it so clearly. Choose wisely because one day you're going to be asking, What will he do with me? Believe on him. Would you stand with me?