I want you to take your Bibles and turn to Hebrews chapter number 10, please. Hebrews chapter number 10. We look this morning at a text for the new year that has to do with our responsibilities as a Christian, to wait for his son from heaven. Tonight I want to deal with a text that has to do with the character of God. And I want you to see it here in Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 23. I'm only going to read what's in parentheses. Hebrews chapter ten and verse number twenty-three. The Bible says this, for he is faithful that promised. We ought to just call recess there and praise the Lord a while. For he is faithful that promised. There are not many things you can count on this world, but you can count on the Lord being faithful. That word means to be trustworthy. It means somebody who's reliable, someone who's unchanging, and someone that you can count on. That's what it means when it says He is faithful. One of the overarching attributes of the Lord is that He is faithful. He's always faithful. He's always been faithful. He'll always be faithful. The one thing you can count on is that God is faithful. Let's pray together and we're going to do a Bible study tonight in the New Testament of the ten times God said, I'm faithful. Ten times. And they all have to do something with something that will benefit and bless us. So Father, we bow before you just now and pray for your help. We ask you, O Lord, as our brother prayed in the prayer time, that you would separate us from all the cares and concerns and things crowding our minds and help us to hear from heaven. Lord, I know what I need and what these dear people need has got to come from you. And so, Lord, I pray that you'll do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. For these few minutes we have together, hide me behind the cross, Lord, empty me of me, fill me with thee, help me to lift up the Lord Jesus, and have your way in this gathering. Remind us, O Lord, of thy great faithfulness. Lord, how grateful we are that we have your word to teach us and the Holy Ghost to instruct us. And so, Lord, we just pray now your will be done, and we pray it in the strong name of Jesus. And God's people said, Amen. Our God is faithful. He is faithful, the writer of Hebrews said, that promised. He's faithful. He's so faithful that in Revelation 19, verse number 11, did you know his name is faithful? Revelation 19, 11 says, And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse. And he that sat upon him was called faithful and true. And in righteousness he doth judge and make work. That's how faithful God is, that his very name is faithful. Now, ten times in the New Testament, the Bible makes it clear God is faithful. You say, preacher, why do I need to be reminded of of the faithfulness of God? I'll tell you why, because of the fickleness of man. We have a tendency sometimes to think that God may be like us. He's nothing at all like us. And thank God for that. I'm glad that He is faithful. Faithful and seed that promise. So let's begin tonight by going back to 1 Corinthians. And here's the first reference to the faithfulness of God. 1 Corinthians chapter 1. In verse number nine. Now keep in mind as I read this verse that we're talking about a very carnal church. We're talking about a group of people who are uh doing the works of the flesh and and uh who are disobedient to the Lord and and yet Paul starts here in chapter number one and says, You're not You're not the least of the saints. The same gospel I preached in other places uh I preached there. Uh you were saved by that same gospel. You Don't come behind any other Christians with the gifts of the Spirit of God. This is a bona fide New Testament church. And yet they're struggling. I want you to see what the Bible says. 1 Corinthians chapter 1 verse 9. You see how it starts? God is faithful, by whom you were called under the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Here is a group of New Testament believers that are struggling in their walk with the Lord. Here is a group of saints that that we could put over the top of them. Here are people that are struggling as they follow Christ. Yet God said, I want you to know something in regards to your salvation. God is faithful. Now the saints may struggle, but the Savior is faithful. The saints may stray. These were straying saints. We could Man, we could go through the book and point out the times that listen, these saints strayed from the Lord, but the Savior is faithful. The these saints were really uh struggling as far as their flesh is concerned, and Paul had to do some real uh strong rebuking of them, and yet Right over all of this, the Savior is faithful. God is faithful. Do you know the failings of men don't affect the faithfulness of God? No matter how men fail, God don't fail. God is a faithful God. And mark it down and rest assured as you look at a new year, God is faithful. You know what I appreciate about these statements about his faithfulness? It's always in the present tense. It never says, Brother Brad, God was faithful. Because he doesn't cease to be what he once was. It never says God will be faithful, because God doesn't just suddenly become something that he's currently not. It always says that God is faithful. So please mark it down in regards to salvation that God is faithful. God is faithful when his people aren't. God is faithful when the church fails. God is faithful when the flesh rises up. You can mark over every step you take, whether in the direction God would have you or not in the direction God would have you, you can write over every page of it. God is faithful. So he's faithful in salvation. Let's look at another one, please. 1 Corinthians chapter number 10 is the next time the statement's made. 1 Corinthians chapter 10 And verse number 13. I want you to notice that God is not only faithful in salvation, but he is faithful in strengthening us against temptation. 1 Corinthians 10 13 says, There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. Look at this. But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able to But will with the temptation also make a way to escape that you may be able to bear it. Aren't you glad God is faithful? Look, you can count on Him for victory over every temptation. God is faithful. Of all the things that that that you can depend on, you know, I I think sometimes we we try to depend on the process rather than the person We oftentimes think, well, if I'll take the certain steps, and whether we number them twelve or we number them twenty-one or whatever the steps may be, we forget at the back of all of that is the person of the faithfulness of the of God, a God who is faithful, who does not fail his own. God is faithful. And he's faithful to come to your rescue. And to give victory and to give strength. And you know what I find sometimes in my own life? We just don't ask him. And we often fail because we do not ask. James said it like this, we had not because we what? We ask not. So we see the strengthening of God in his faithfulness. God's faithful. You know, these Corinthians were battling a lot of things. There were a lot of flesh in this church. There are a lot of carnality in this church. But yet the Lord said, through the Apostle Paul, I am faithful. You can count on me, you can depend on me. There is no temptation that cannot be overcome because God is faithful. Thank God for that victory tonight in the Lord Jesus Christ. Then I want you to notice the third time it's used. The third time is over here in 1 Thessalonians. And I want you to see it in chapter number five, I believe it is. First Thessalonians chapter number five And verse number 24. Let's read verse 23 because you can't separate the two verses here really. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 23, and the very God of peace sanctify you wholly. And I pray, God, your whole spirit and soul and body. Be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 24. Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it. This is the faithfulness of God in sanctification. God is faithful to clean us up. He he he made it very clear here as he's praying for this church that it is the plan of God to preserve you and keep you whole in your soul and body Under the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, and many makes this grand statement, Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it The making of a child of God more like the Son of God is a guaranteed process that the Lord will complete. You know why? Because God's faithful. People say, Well, I you know, I I'm gonna get straightened out because I'm doing this and I'm doing that and I'm going here and I'm listening that that's uh All of that i is is irrelevant. You are are are not what you need to count on. He's the one we must count on. He's a faithful God. He's faithful. He said, I'm faithful. I'll do what I called you to do. I will accomplish what I have determined to accomplish. You know, when you got saved, God had a goal in mind. And it wasn't a goal like we sometimes set, and we're satisfied if we almost get there. It is a goal that he has established, and it's established, and it will be accomplished. We're predestined to be made in the likeness of his son. He's predetermined that you and I be just like Jesus. And you know something, it may it look, you may look in the mirror and say, He's got a lot of work to do. There's a whole lot of work to do, right? That's what I say. Let me just testify. That's what I say. When I look in the mirror, I say, Lord, it's a long way coming from what it should be. But thank God I got a promise And the promise is God's faithful. And that what He's called me, what He's determined for me, He's going to accomplish in me because He is faithful. Now I may fail along the way and falter, but my God will be faithful. You need to get that in your heart. You need to get that deep down in your heart that God is faithful because there will be a lot of things come your way that'll derail you if you're not careful. Our sanctification depends on the faithfulness of God. Our transformation in the likeness of Christ Is dependent upon. By the way, you know what that does? That strips me of all self-righteousness. I'm afraid today our independent churches are full of self-righteousness. We've cleaned up, fixed up, dressed up, propped up, cleaned, we've done all these things, and and all we are is reforming flesh. We're just uh making over the old man. But I'm here to tell you what God does. He don't make over the old man. He makes a new man in Christ Jesus in every one of us. And everything that he does, he does it so he gets the glory. If there's anything like Jesus in you, he put it there. If there's any likeness to the Lord Jesus, it's because he's doing something in your life. Every one of us have to bow our heads and say, Lord, thank you for not leaving me like you found me, but making me what I ought to be. Thank God for that. I'm glad he comes after me when I go the other direction. I'm glad he don't lead me to myself You know, something we are seeing in this day a generation of children that are being, well, they're just practically raising themselves. And we're seeing the outcome of that sort of thing. When they're left to themselves, when they're just let go and they do what naturally comes their way Well, what naturally comes is destructive, isn't it? Listen, most of you sitting here have have lived in the generation that you were raised. You were brought up. You were taught. You were trained. You were told no. Somebody uh uh somebody got in your business and said, hey, you ain't doing that. That's not right Somebody come along and said, You don't need to do that. That's not appropriate. That's not pleasing the Lord. And you were trained. You were taught those things. And you know what? Most of us here tonight have to admit that we're simply the product of our raising. You know something, you'll forgive me, will you? But I used to think I had the meanest parents on earth I really did. I'll tell you what, I couldn't step sideways. My dad would I can still hear that big finger coming towards my head. You know, he'd flip me. He'd flipped me on the back of the head, especially in church. When when I got big enough to move out of their pew, guess how far I got? The pew in front of them As far as I got. And in that pew I had to sit there and listen, if I did something that wasn't supposed to be done in church, he'd take that big, thick, hardworking finger and pop me right on the back of the head And I knew whatever it was, a lot of times I wasn't quite sure what it was, but I just stopped doing everything so that way I wouldn't get in trouble. But you know what? He didn't leave me to myself. And there came a point in my life where I looked back and I said, Thank you, Lord, for it. I thank you, Lord, for every discipline. I thank you for every bit of direction. I thank you for every correction. And God, I thank you that you just and you know what I'm grateful as I stand before here uh here before you tonight, that I serve a God who is faithful, who will not lead me to myself. He'll not leave me to go down a road of rebellion. If I'm really his and saved by grace, he'll step into my life and say, Child of God, that's the wrong way. He'll deal with my heart. He'll convict me. He'll trouble me. He'll draw me. He'll use circumstances in my life to get my attention. And thanks be to God that he doesn't leave wicked flesh to go its own way. Oh listen, God is faithful. This thing of sanctification is going to get done. The job's going to be complete. You can count on it. The Lord's going to do this. And and as we looked at this morning in 1 John 3. We're told in the precious Word of God that, my friend, when we see Him, we shall be like Him. There is coming a day that our precious Lord is going to say job complete. There's coming a day when my precious Lord is going to take and he's going to look and he's going to say, now, that's exactly what I was aiming at. Aren't you glad that as a child of God you have that promise and it's based on the faithfulness of God? It's not on your shoulders. I think sometimes we we take too much on ourselves to be what only God can make us be. Well, I tell you what, preacher, I'm going to do better. How many make New Year's resolutions? Well, you ought to have a goal and you ought to have a plan. There ought to be some things you're aiming to do. But when it comes to spiritual things, my friend, listen, you need God. You need God to make you what He needs to make you and what you need to be and I need to be. We need the help of the Lord And so sanctification depends on the faithfulness of God. Let's look at another, please. 2 Thessalonians chapter number 3 and verse number 3. We're calling this the faithfulness of security. The faithfulness of security. Look what it says. But the Lord, 2 Thessalonians 3 3 But the Lord is faithful, who shall establish you and keep you from evil You read that chapter, Paul talks about uh these uh that the pray the Lord would have fr the word of the Lord may have free course, be glorified. And that we may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men, for all men have not the faith. Paul knew something about suffering at the hands of the evil one. Paul knew something about being in danger. His life was in danger. He oftentimes found himself on the other end of a whole bunch of people who wanted him dead. He knew something about that threat, his life being in danger. But here's what he said. God's faithful. God is faithful and he will keep me from evil. God is a faithful God. And listen, my security does not rest in the protections that I put around me. My security rests in the promise of God that God is faithful to keep me from evil. I'm glad tonight, listen. That God is faithful to protect us. You say, well, preacher, does that mean we can just sort of go to sleep and not be vigilant? Absolutely not. Years ago, my preacher, when it wasn't popular, first started carrying, and I remember somebody saying, Oh, there's a preacher that don't trust God. He said, I don't I trust the Lord, I just don't trust the devil. He said, the one I got problems with is the devil. And so I'm not saying that we just not be vigilant, but here's what I am saying. At the end of the day, the best I can do is the best I can do. But somewhere along the way, I've got to trust the fact that he will keep me from evil, that God is faithful. And church, I am so glad tonight that the listen, the devil might want to destroy you, evil men might might want to eliminate you, but none of them are a match for the faithfulness of God God will not fail. Our security. You say, preacher, we're living in dangerous times. We sure are. Paul called them perilous times. We're living in days where listen that Antichrist spirit is very strong in the world today, and it will get stronger. That spirit that's opposing God and that spirit's against the Word of God and that spirit that that that hates the Christ of God is is growing and increasing and prevailing, and that puts you and I on the bad end of the majority of this world. But our security is in the Lord. Our God is faithful You look in your Bible, and listen, it's never been favorable to be a Christian. Look at Daniel. Daniel stands as a testimony of a man who can be faithful to God amidst the fierce opposition of a godless society. There he is in Babylon. There he is in a foreign land. He's under under slavery really. He's being dominated by these Babylonians and he's trained and raised And and now, listen, he stays faithful to God through every bit of it. Now it put him at odds at times. He he sort of had a collision every once in a while. But aren't you glad God overrules collisions? Those those wicked men said, We'll have the lions eat old Daniel. He we know that if we can catch him on something about his God, that that'll get him in trouble because he's faithful to his God. And so they made their laws, and you know what happened? They found Daniel praying when he wasn't supposed to, according to the law of the land But yet, as they took old Daniel and threw him in the lion's den, they forgot something. That he was down there with the God who made the lines That the God who created those critters is the same God who could tell them, Now shut your mouth, don't touch my servant, you lay down, give him a carpeted floor to sleep on. And thank God God's faithful in keeping his children. I see the security of God's faithfulness. God is faithful to look after his own Let's quickly look at another. There's ten of them. We're halfway there, if you're counting. So 2 Timothy chapter number 2. 2 Timothy chapter number 2 and verse number 13. This is the stability of God's faithfulness. The stability of God's faithfulness. 2 Timothy 2, verse 13. Our Bible says, if we believe not Yet he abideth faithful. He cannot deny himself. Now listen, I believe this is speaking of believers here. I believe he's addressing those who are born again. You go back and read the context. He's making it clear that God is faithful in our stability. What does that mean? That simply means this I may lose my senses and in a very real sense forget the Lord. Disease may take that from me Don't think for a minute that we're immune from suffering like everybody else. Because of the fallen race which we're a part of, the reality is these diseases can take our mind, they can take our mental capacity. There could come a point in my life where I don't know who the Lord is, I don't know what the Lord is, I could simply lose all understanding of what I once held so dear. But aren't you glad he abides faithful Listen, I may forget him, but he won't forget me. Thank God he does not forget his own. The Lord listen, the Bible says we had this seal that the Lord knoweth them that are his Thank God he knows who belongs to him. He is a faithful God. Our our very stability depends upon the Lord's faithfulness Listen tonight, he is a faithful God, and so far as we are concerned, you know, God made a covenant with Abraham. And when a covenant was made, let's say John and I were going to make a covenant, and so we would take a sacrifice and cut that sacrifice and we both would walk between the pieces, acknowledging an agreement between us. He does his part, I do my part. That's a covenant. We're making an agreement. When Abraham went to make a covenant with God, God put him to sleep, and God himself walked that sacrifice. Abraham didn't have to walk it. He did. Why? Because it wasn't up to Abraham. God was going to keep his promise regardless of what Abraham did. Now you need to know tonight God will keep his promise regardless of what you and I do. Now that don't make you if you're really saved, that don't make you want to sin. That makes you want to get close to the one that loves you that much. That makes you want to bow down on your knees and say, I don't know why you'd be so good to somebody like me, but thank you, Lord. Listen, God is faithful in the stability of his people. You and I may not believe in that sense. The fact of the matter is, if we'd be honest tonight, there's a great deal of unbelief yet in many of our hearts Are you not sometimes like the Father? Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. Lord, I believe you can do it, but Lord, as a part of me, don't. There's a part of me, I've got to be honest, there's a part of me that that battles with that thing of unbelief. But aren't you glad tonight that regardless of our unbelief, he's just faithful? He doesn't look at you in the eye and say, now, if you'll just measure up, he knows we can't ever measure up And so he's just good and he's just God and he's just faithful regardless of who we are. Quickly, number six. Will you go with me to the book of Hebrews, Hebrews chapter number two? Hebrews chapter 2 and verse number 17. Hebrews chapter 2 and verse number 17, the Bible says this Wherefore, in all things, it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God. to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to secure them that are tempted. You know that word there, secure, means support. In other words, God is faithful to give heaven's help for earth's battles. Listen, when you and I are tempted, when we're tried and tested, when the battle gets fierce, here's what he said: I'll come help you. I'll come to your aid. I'll come support you. I was watching a battle uh history story about a particular battle and uh it was during the Gulf War. And these these boys were uh were in a firefight and they were on the ground and they were outnumbered and they were in danger, and they called in for backup. And buddy, I'll tell you the backup that came obliterated the enemy. It was like they were going it was certain death for them boys. They're just surrounded, they're taking shots from every side. And when support came in in the form of those those Black Hawk helicopters, when those fellas came in and those bombs started dropping and man stuff started blowing up, they obliterated the enemy I got to thinking every once in a while I got to get on my knees and call for backup. Every once in a while I get in a battle and it seems like, boy, the devil's going to take me out and I'm going to be eliminated. It looks like on every side I'm surrounded But just when you think it's over, here comes the Lord. You know why? Because God is faithful. He's faithful to come to the aid of his children and to support us in every temptation, every trial, and every battle. I'll tell you what, you might call on a friend and that friend can't help you. You might call on another to come to your aid and they just can't bring the necessary means that you stand in need of. But you've never got on your knees and said, Lord, I need help here, that the Lord didn't have the ability to help you in that particular way. Whatever that thing might be, God is faithful. Let me give you another one in Hebrews. Hebrews eleven and verse eleven. Hebrews chapter eleven, verse eleven. I don't know who ever said Bible study is boring. Tells me they never studied their Bible. Amen. Amen. I know everybody's full of turkey and ham and you're worn out from visitors and all of that, but it's still good to be in church. It's good to be in the Bible. It's good to under to understand that God is faithful. Amen. Hebrews 11 11 Through faith also Sarah herself received strength to conceive seed. And was delivered of a child when she was past age, because she judged him faithful who had promised. Here is the faithfulness of the supernatural. Sarah needed a miracle. Just plain and simple. Sarah needed a miracle. The Bible says that her body and Abraham's were as good as dead. And so just to be simple and plain and polite, it was just not going to happen as far as a child's concern. It could not happen. It was not possible. That was gone. That was past. That couldn't happen anymore But there's a God in heaven. Sarah said, you know what? He said he'd do it, and somehow or another he's gonna do it. Somehow or another he's able to do the supernatural God in heaven can do the impossible when it comes to mankind. Don't you ever think for a minute that the days of miracles are over? Every time somebody gets saved, that's a miracle. Every time somebody gets right with God, that's a miracle. Every time, listen, God steps in in a situation and turns things around. I think sometimes we're so full of unbelief we look for an explanation outside of the miracle working power of God. We say, well, it there has to be a medical answer. There may not be a medical answer. I've had a few doctors in my lifetime that have been honest enough to say that there are things beyond their control. Had a few. Some of them get a godlike mentality about them, but I've had a few that said, look, there's things beyond my control. Our doctor when Miss Elizabeth had a issue, a physical issue, I was talking to him and he was very concerned She had had some things rupture inside, and he said quite honestly, he said, if she lives till tomorrow, then we'll do the surgery and hope for the best. He said, I don't, he wasn't a believer. He didn't didn't trust Christ as his Savior. But he did say this. He said, I do believe there's a higher power. He said, I am aware that there are things out of my control. And he said, I am sure that God can do things, that there is someone, that's what he said, someone who can do things that a man can't do. Well, I'm glad because I'm saved I know who that is. And I'm glad he can do some things that that that you can't explain and I can't explain that are beyond our power. The supernatural is still possible, and God is faithful. What about this one over in the book of Hebrew? Excuse me, uh First Peter. Go over there with me. First Peter chapter number four. This is the faithfulness of God in our suffering. The faithfulness of God in our suffering. The Bible says in 1 Peter chapter 4 and verse 19, wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God Commit the keeping of their souls to Him and well-doing as unto a faithful Creator. Listen, friend. The hymn writer said, When all around my soul gives way, he then is all my hope and stay. On Christ the solid rock I stand, all of the ground is sinking sand. Listen, when you are called upon to suffer, you can trust God who will be faithful through all your sufferings. Here's a group of Christians that were driven from their homes. driven from their land. They were hated and hunted and haunted by the enemy, and yet they listened, God said to them, I'm faithful. You can trust me, I made you, I put you here, I've got a purpose for you and a plan for your life, and you can trust me, I will be faithful. I'm glad amid all the sufferings of life, God is faithful. Some of you, dear saints, in these last years I've known you. Some of you have walked through deep valleys. There have been some real trying times. You've suffered personally, individually, as a family. There's been some struggles. There's been some uh heartbreaks and heartaches and sorrow, but aren't you glad through it all God's been faithful God stood right by your side. He's walked with you every bit of the way. He didn't leave you nor forsake you. In fact, he often comes to us in the sweetest ways when we're in the deepest places of life. Thank God He's faithful. Let me quickly give you another 1 John. 1 John chapter 1 and verse number 9. This is the faithfulness of sins forgiven. First John 1 9 says, if we confess our sins. I love these next three words. He is faithful. And just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. He's faithful. I'm glad when I go to God, he doesn't say that's time four hundred and ninety-three. I'm done. Huh? I'm glad when I go to God, he says, you know what, I just don't feel like forgiving you today. God is faithful. I'm glad he doesn't come to me and a or I go to him and and say, Now I've sinned against you and I'm humbly asking you to forgive me and God say, Well I You know, i i it's just not it's not in the cards for you today. You can't be forgiven. I'm glad to report to you he's faithful. He's obligated himself in the precious word of God to forgive our sin and to cleanse us, and he's just in doing so because he's already put my sin on the person of his darling son. And my sin has been paid in full by the Lord Jesus Christ, and that blood cleanses all my sin away. My dear brother or sister, in the Lord, God is faithful to forgive all your sin. And to wash it all away, no matter what it is, or when it is or where it is, God is faithful to forgive us of our sin. I think sometimes we believe God's moody. You know? And oftentimes it's based on our mood. You know, we don't feel like we should be forgiven. Well, it don't matter what I feel like, it's what the Bible says that matters. Well, I wouldn't forgive me. Well, I'm glad I'm not God. Amen. I'm glad God's God. And he said, I'm faithful. I'll forgive you of your sin. You confess your sin. I'll forgive it. I am faithful to forgive it and cleanse it. And isn't it a beautiful thing that God put his faithfulness right in the midst of our need for forgiveness? God is faithful to forgive our sin. What a wonder. What a wonder. I mean, listen, dear Christian. You hear me now, don't let the devil keep you in the far country. Out of fear, God won't forgive you. Preacher, I've done too much. I've gone too far. Hear me, please. God is faithful. He'll forgive. He'll forgive your sin. He'll cleanse your heart. You know, when you say I can't be forgiven, you're saying the blood of Christ is not strong enough. That's a pretty bold statement. When you say I I just uh you know, I can't be forgiven of this particular thing. I years ago I I worked for my pastor and we had a big tent up down in uh Lenore, North Carolina, at the Caldwell County Fairgrounds. And there was a man who came in, we would work at night because it was so hot during the day under that tent. Brother Ralph had a tent that put a a roof on a football field. And the thing at that time we had about 8,000 seats underneath it And and we'd have to straighten them and dust them and do all that. You can imagine all the work. And we'd do that through the night. Well about 1 30 in the morning, this guy comes pulling in. He you can see the tent from the interstate And had a had American flags on the ten big poles, center poles that held that thing up, and then lights, spotlights shining on them, so this thing would glow. And that guy pulled in there And he's walking around the tent and we approached him and asked what he needed, and he said, I'm I I'm a Christian, I think. He said, but I I'm really in trouble He said, I can't tell you what I've done, but he said, I I just don't know if I can be forgiven. In fact, he said, I was listening to the radio coming down the road, and I heard a preacher say, if you've done thus and so, you cannot be forgiven. And that man had a look of terror on his face. He looked like a man who was about to go mad. And he paced and he wrung his hands and you could see sweat coming down his forehead and he said Is there any hope for me? Can I be forgiven? And I'm glad we could take the Word of God and open it up and say, Sir My Bible says if we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness I'll never forget that man took his Bible and he just kept walking. He walked around that tent, he read that out loud. He walked around and read that out loud. He kept reading those words. He walked down the fairgrounds and they had a big um uh barn area where they kept sheep. It was for sheep, for showing sheep And he was down there walking in one of those pens, and he was reading that verse, reading that verse, reading that verse. And then I watched that man get down on his knees. And he looked up to heaven and he started talking to God. And it wasn't long until that peace that he is looking for came back to his heart. And that cleansing that he desired was applied to him because the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all unrighteousness. And I'm telling you that man that was half mad left there shouting and praising God because he found out God will forgive sin. God is faithful Even that sh that prodigal son, the far country, knew that his father would forgive him if he just went back home. And I'm glad that God's faithful when it comes to my sin and his forgiveness. Now, can I go back to one more? And it's here in our text, Hebrews chapter 10, verse 23. The Bible says, let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering. Here it is, for he is faithful, that promised. This is the faithfulness of scriptural promises. The promises of God are as faithful as the God who promised them. The faithfulness, listen, God's promises, you can count on them, church. You can count on them. You can stake your life on them. The reality is that everything God's promised to do, He either has done, is doing, or will do one day. Because God is faithful. You you think about that we just celebrated the birth of Christ. He promised that some four thousand plus years before Jesus was ever born. And yet he came. God keeps his promises God promised to bless Abraham, and all down through the ages, God has blessed Abraham and his seed. And listen again, just proving God's faithful. I've got an old Bible in my study in there that my brother found me. And all through that Bible, you've got two little letters in different places, all through it. TP, TP, TP, TP. And I'm thankful that I read somewhere what that meant, and I've seen it in the front of that little Bible. It means simply this, tried and proven. I don't know who owned that Bible. I wished I did, but I don't have a clue who owned that Bible. But whoever it was took the promises of God, put them in practice in their life, and they found God faithful. Aren't you glad that God is faithful and the promises are faithful? Church, amid the changing things of time, amid all the uh the eruptions of life, I am glad God's faithful. You can take and build your life on this precious old book and every promise of it. You can take it to the bank and cash it in because God's good for it. He will stand by his word. Jeremiah 33, 3, call unto me and I'll answer thee. And show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. My, what a promise. What a promise that maybe many of you here have proved over and over and over again. The potency of that promise is not in your ability to pray. It's not in the ability that you might have to string beautiful words together to make your prayer sound good The power of that promise is not in the fact that you pray every day or pray all day or pray throughout the day. The reality is the power of that promise is in the God who said it. And he said, if you'll call unto me, I will answer thee. And he said that I will show you great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Oh church, these promises are meant to be taken and used in everyday life. My father in law, who's now in heaven It's so aggravating, and my family will attest to this, when you get him something, he wouldn't he didn't want to use it. He just wanted to put it up and keep it. Even though you got it for him to use, right? He put it up. He said, No, you give me that, I'm not going to use it because I just want to keep it. Well, you didn't get it to keep, you got it to use, right? And listen, God's given you some promises not to put on a pretty shelf and say, isn't that beautiful? He gave you some promises to get down in the trenches of life and live life and battle the devil and the flesh and the world and stand for God and and live for God and to use them in your everyday life These promises are meant to be used. This Bible is to be taken and put into effect in our daily lives. And look, take these promises. God is faithful. He will not fail you. There may be a lot of things you count on that'll let you down. Where was I? I was somewhere and I sat down in a chair and that silly thing broke. You talk about having trust issues for a little while. We were visiting a church somewhere. It'll come to me in a minute. And we went to a fellowship area to sit down and eat. And I sat in that thing and it collapsed. And I got to looking around the room and I thought, I wonder if any of these other chairs have got the same problem that does, you know? And maybe some of them chairs are looking at me like saying, You got that problem, you don't need to be sitting in me. But anyway. But I'll tell you what, child of God, you've never put your head on a promise of God and not found a soft pillow. Never. You've never trusted God and God fail. Now you and I failed him, but he has never failed us. God is faithful. Do you know why I can hold fast my profession of faith? Because He's faithful that promised it Do you know why I can rest in the reality that if I call upon the Lord to save me, he'll do it? Because the Bible says it. Do you know why I can count on the Lord to do just everything that he says he'll do because he's faithful, God is faithful, he does not fail. The faithfulness of scriptural promises. You know, considering our changing culture and circumstances And the fickle nature of man, it's awful good to know God is faithful. Count on him. Notice again, he is faithful. That promised. Take that text with you into the new year. He's faithful. He's faithful that promised. Everything God says you can count on. Will you hear me just for a moment? We live in a world that wants to erode your faith in this. Every day. Every day. You know why it's such a big deal that we stand on the sanctity of marriage that's between a man and a woman? It's in here. And to contradict that goes against this. Do you know why that we we say life is such a precious thing that It begins in the womb and that a a child is a child from the moment of conception on. Why do we stand on that? Says it right here. The word it's the word of God. Well why why are these things so important? I'll tell you why. Because they stand with the Word of God. And the culture you live in and the situation Some of the I feel for some of our kids and they go off to school and a and and and different places and they're bombarded with the mindset that the Bible's not true. In fact, people are so arrogant and ignorant about this subject that they assume that the Bible's not true without ever even investigating. Some time ago, uh there was a young man who got saved. He was from uh Germany. His name was Hauka. And Halka was at a university where we were live living next to or nearby. And I remember when we first gave him the gospel, Hauka was like, well, you know, the Bible's not true. That's a fairy tale. I said, well, how do you know that? Well, I I was told that. I said, well, have you ever investigated? What if I told you that the the grass is purple? Would you believe me? Well, no, because I've seen it. I said, then pray tell me why you would believe this Bible is true and you've never investigated it. Hmm. He said, that makes sense I said, well, start reading it for yourself. Well, long story short, that young man came to trust Christ. He started to read the Bible, started to study things about the Bible, and he said, I I mean I can remember he had such a enthusiasm about him When when it dawned on him to realize that the Bible was true, he said, How could I be so foolish? I don't take man's word for anything else, but I believe that the Bible wasn't true. Now I know it is, he said. I said, well then there's something else you need to know. It says you must be born again. And he was the easiest person I've ever seen to point to Christ because he already had it figured out that the Bible was true And the reason we live in a culture that's so hard to reach for Christ is because they're brainwashed from babies to believe the Bible is inaccurate. And so you're a fighting and uphill battle. But every once in a while God will do something, and a man's mind will get open and he'll start studying for himself instead of just taking what somebody else has said and he'll find out. That Bible is true. How many people, I'm thinking of one now, who got converted trying to disprove the resurrection. He said, I'm going to disprove it. I'm going to take all of my mental capacity and all my faculties, and I'm going to prove that the The resurrection's not so, and he come to the conclusion that the resurrection is so, and he better get right with God because Jesus Christ is alive. Well, I'm here to tell you, friend, you can rest on the promises of God. Do not let, please hear me, do not let the intellectual elite, and that's a contradiction of terms, but anyway, the intellectual elite convince you that your Bible's not true. Don't let the spiritual wolves in sheep's clothing rob you of the authority of a Bible you can trust. Don't let this crowd that has turned their back on the truth of God just a fit in the times in which we live, and don't let them take from you the fact that you've got a Bible you can count on. You're better off having childlike faith than critical faith. You're standing on good ground when you believe the scriptures You're standing with people like Abraham and Moses and Noah. You're standing with Jesus. And Paul, that's a pretty good crowd to stand with, don't you reckon? That's the kind of folks I want to be standing on the right side of things with. Believe the word of God. You know why? God is faithful. God is faithful. Carry that text into the new year. Father, please take your word and do with it as you please. Thank you for the privilege