I want you to open your Bible this morning, please, to the Gospel of Matthew. Chapter number 28. And I want to once again focus on the one verse, Matthew 28, and verse number 6. I want you to notice what the Bible has to say here. The Bible says in Matthew 28 and verse number six, He is not here, for He is risen as He said. Come see the place where the Lord lay. Everything we believe about the Lord Jesus We do so based on the authority of what the Bible says. Everything else is subject for question. But God's word makes it abundantly clear, and there is where our faith rests. The Bible tells me so. The Bible says very clearly here that he is not here. You say, well, preacher, what does that mean? Well, I want to say this the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ is the capstone of our faith. If you take away the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, Paul said it like this in 1 Corinthians 15. He said, our preaching is vain. He said, our faith is in vain, and he said we're yet in our sins. But I'm grateful to report to you this morning that the Lord Jesus is alive. And because he lives, our preaching is not in vain, and because he lives, our faith is not in vain, and because he lives, our sins are gone. Paid in full by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. But this statement got my attention. I want to just magnify this truth. He is not here, for he is risen, as he said. What does that mean? What does that mean? I mentioned earlier that it is our prayer that this truth would be moved for many today out of the realm of just mere religion. You see, this is perhaps for Christianity the most recognized religious day of the year. And it's a very special day. For many, it's just merely a ritual, something that we go through. You know, it's it's resurrection Sundays, so we do thus and so out of ritual. But for many, like these early followers of the Lord Jesus, it was not just a ritual. It certainly was not a religion. It was the reality that Jesus Christ was alive. After having been crucified on the cross, buried on that third morning, I was reading again this morning each account that the gospel writers recorded of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And each one of them, uh you you notice the words like wonder and amazement with fear and rejoicing. Man, it was a it was uh a day like no other when they realized Jesus Christ got up out of the grave. Here was a group of people. That were hopeless, fearful, and they're looking at this thing and thinking, we thought he was the one We thought he was Messiah. We believed that he was the one who would save us, and yet he's dead. Yet what must have filled their hearts? When the first news started trickling in, the tomb's empty. He's not there. And then Mary shows up and says, I saw the Lord. He he talked to me, and then Peter and John and others, and then on that first resurrection evening. As the disciples were all gathered in the upper room, the Bible says they were gathered there for fear of the Jews. Can you imagine a more uh you know fearful looking bunch locked in an upper room Thinking what's next? And then Jesus comes. The Bible says when he appeared in that room, he began to to let them know that I am he that was dead. But I'm alive and I live forevermore. What a day that must have been. It was a day certainly like no other. And and doubt it and disbelieve it and do what you will with it, that day has changed not only time, but it's changed eternity. I want you to think about what this means. He is not here, for he is risen as he said. Well, first it means the tomb is empty. Death has lost its hold on the Lord Jesus Christ. I like what the angel said. Why seek ye the living among the dead? It it almost as if I I don't know that God condones sarcasm, but it's almost as if the the Lord was saying, You're looking in the wrong place. You're out here in the graveyard and Jesus is alive and well. You're looking for the wrong. He's not dead. His body's a rose. Why seek ye the living among the dead? 2 Timothy 1, verse 10. Paul said this: he has abolished death. And you know what that word abolished means? It means to deprive of its force or to make it void. If death was a check, God wrote canceled on it. He he abolished death. You say, what do you mean by that? Here's what I mean. Death lost its hold. It lost its hold on the Lord Jesus. In Revelation chapter 1, I love this picture of Christ, the revelation of him. He said, I am he that liveth and was dead. And behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And have the keys of hell and of death. That means he's in charge. He he's the one. Hey, you know what you carry keys to? You carry keys to what belongs to you. That's what you carry keys to. You've got keys for what's yours. It it it's un it's it's yours. You're you're responsible for it And I'm glad to report to you this morning that death and hell are under the commanding of the Lord Jesus Christ. The tomb is empty. Jesus is alive. Death has been defeated, and love has won. For the Lord Jesus lives. But it means more than that. Not only is the tomb empty, he is not here, for he is risen as he said, but it also means that he's trustworthy. Jesus is trustworthy. You'll notice the emphasis here by the Spirit of God on these words, as He said. As he said. For he is risen as he said, just like he told you. You know, isn't it interesting if you look back up in that chapter, chapter 27? The Bible tells us there in verse 63 that even the enemies were a little anxious about this. They said, Sir, we remember that the deceiver said While he was yet alive, after three days I will rise again. And so even the enemies were a little bit on edge and said, He he said he was going to get up. He said he was going to rise. Isn't it interesting that often the enemies of God believe him more than the followers? You know, I read one account here in the Gospels where when they told them that the Lord was alive and that the tomb was empty, the Bible says it seemed as idle tales. And they believed them not. But here's the enemy saying, We better put a guard on this tomb, because he said in three days he's getting up. And so, and did Jesus say it? Of course he did. In John 2. 19, Jesus said, destroy this temple, and in three days, in three days, I will raise it up. Now, my friend, do you know what the resurrection of the Lord Jesus did? It validated every claim he ever made. It vindicated everything he ever said. When Jesus said, I'm going to do something, you can rest assured he did, because he did the greatest thing of all when he emptied the tomb In Romans chapter 1 and verse number 4, the Bible says, and declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead. My friend, you and I need to understand something. Jesus keeps his word. You can trust him. It is strange. We we live in such untrusting days. I I mean listen, I I know today it when you're doing business, and some of you are businessmen and women, when you do business, you sign contracts And you sign contracts on contracts. And sometimes you have to have contracts to contracts to verify the contract. Do you get where I'm going? You know why? Because you can't trust people. You can't trust people. I'll tell you, I'm about to the point somebody told me the grass is green. I'm about almost convinced it's not. Because I I mean you just it's hard to trust people. But the reality is we're a deceived age and living as deceivers in this age. But there's one I can wholeheartedly believe. Because everything he says is absolutely true. Jesus said, destroy this body, and in three days I'll raise it up. And that's exactly what he did. He also said, Whosoever Shall call upon the name of the Lord, shall be saved. And my friend, I'm glad to report to you, he does that too. He said, if I go, and he did, he said, I will come again to receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be also. He's going to do that one day The reality is that you can trust him. You think about all of the promises that he made. He said this: Lo, I am with you always. Means he's with us everywhere we go. There's never a day that you're walking alone. You say, hold on, preacher. There are days that I feel like I'm alone. There are days you do how many of you know this? You can be a crowd of people and be just as lonely as could be. And feel like you you're the only one on the planet. See, th the the reality is is that uh just because I feel something doesn't make it so. It's what God says is what settles my heart down and gives me faith. The reality is, he said, I will never leave thee. There's never a time where God's people are alone. You may walk through dark valleys and you may trudge through deep places of depression and and and just de- debilitating darkness, but I'm going to report something to you In the valley, he's still there. I'm glad the psalmist recorded it like this Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Listen, my friend, there's somebody, when everybody else walks out, there's somebody else still standing. When everyone else goes away, when all of the uh the the hoopala settles and when all of the dust settles down, there's going to be somebody who will be by your side. And that's the blessed Lord Jesus Christ. You know why? He keeps his promises. He keeps his promises. He said, I will send you another comforter. And you know what he did in Acts chapter number two? He sent another comforter. He sent one liken unto himself. And that comforter comforts the people of God. I'm talking about the Holy Spirit. The Spirit of God who lives in God's people. See, because he keeps his word. He said, Call unto me and I'll answer thee, and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. You know what? I can bow my head and pray with assurance. That there's a God in heaven who hears and answers prayer. And I don't have to doubt and worry or wonder and hope and think and and y you know sort of cross every finger and cross every toe and hopefully that it'll come true No, my friend, there's a God that's got an open ear and an outstretched arm, and who's able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. I'm just trying to say you can trust him. He's trustworthy. Every time you think about the resurrection, by the way, God must want us to think about it often because he told us to gather on the first day of the week. And you know why we gather on you know why we don't go to church on Monday? We don't go to church on Tuesday? Well you know why we gather on Sunday? Because that's the day Jesus got up out of the grave. And because that's the day that we are recognizing the fact that he lives. And once a week I'm reminded he's alive. He's alive. Now there's some churches I've been in. Oh beloved, listen. Someone said it's cold in some churches. If you carried a jug of milk from the back to the front, it'd be it would be ice cream time you got to the front end of the building. It's just cold. It ought not to be. Do you know we've not gathered here to have a funeral? We've not gathered here to have a memorial. We've gathered here to worship the Lord who lives. He lives. Church is alive. And in this world of mass confusion, you and I need these continual reminders that Jesus Christ is alive. And that he can be trusted above all else. But here's the third thing I want you to think about. The Bible says he is not here, for he is risen as he said. There's a truth that we all have to face. There's a truth that we all have to face. What is that truth? He lives. That's a truth. It's not a speculation. It's not a religious declaration It's a truth that's that's very real. The unified voice of the Word of God is this. He's alive. He's alive. Do you realize in that first century that that there were people who lived that very well could have you know that you could have interviewed at these days and said, Did you see him? And they said, Yes, we saw him. On one occasion, five hundred people. Now, if one person comes and tells me a story , depends on the person. Amen. Just depends on the person. That's all I'm gonna say. It just depends on the person. And if two people tell me, well, it depends on the two people. It really does. You say, but but do you know what I'm trying to say? The more people that that that come along and say, I saw it too. I was there. I witnessed it. It adds credibility to their statement. Have you ever studied your New Testament to see how many people said we saw him? Do you realize that if you took all of this and put it down, there's some 80 hours of testimony of witnesses to the resurrected Christ? And if you were to take all of these proofs and lay them out in a court of law, even the most crooked judge would have to say, You've got me, the evidence is overwhelming, he's alive. And the reality is this morning is I don't need to lay this in a courtroom. And I don't need to have this uh put out as far as a testimony and and hear all the hours and hours of testimony My friend, the reality is this. I face that truth. I faced that truth as an eight-year-old boy. When I heard the gospel preached so clearly. That my sin had separated me from God. And because of my sin, I was lost and on my way to hell. And because I was a sinner, I deserved that place. That was the place that I had earned for the wages of sin is death. And yet there was a payment made for me. There was a sacrifice. And his name was Jesus Christ. When he went to the cross, he died in my place. And he shed his blood to offer it up as as the payment for my sin, something that would put my sin away. And if I would but come to him by faith My sin would be forgiven, my soul would be saved, and heaven would be my home. And in childlike faith I believed on the Lord Jesus and called upon him, and he saved me by his grace. I faced that truth I pray this morning that you faced it. Many of you sitting here have. I've heard your testimony. You face that truth. Jesus is alive. But you may be sitting here saying, Well, I'm not so sure about that. I've got doubts and such. And I don't know if this is really true. Is he alive? Can I caution you about something? Can I caution you and say to you this morning that there will come a day that you'll face him? And you'll face him not as a friend. See, I'm looking forward to seeing, but since he's been my Savior. I'm on different grounds. I'm on different grounds. See, the Bible says as a sinner, I'm at enmity with God. I'm at war. And I don't want to stand in his presence at war. I don't want to stand there and be his enemy. But because of Jesus, now he's my friend. He's my Savior and my redeemer. He's my Lord. And my friend, listen, you're going to face him. All of us are going to face him. The doubter is going to face him. The God denier is going to face him. The God hater's going to face him. Every person that that that that that you know says, oh, he doesn't exist, that's fairy tale, all of that crowd, every person is going to face him. But they'll not face him as redeemer, they'll face him as judge. We're all going to face him. Chuck Colson, some of you are old enough to remember that name. He served in Nixon's day and under President Nixon he was well I've I've heard it said that he was Nixon's hatchet man. He was arrested along with others and he did time for his crimes affiliated with Watergate. Colson was given a book before he was incarcerated and he started to read it and while in prison he became a Christian. He founded prison fellowship, still going on today. But I like what he wrote concerning the resurrection. He said, I know the resurrection is a fact, and Watergate proved it to me. When I read that, I thought Okay, and what did Watergate have to do with the resurrection? Listen to what he said. Twelve men testified they had seen Jesus raised from the dead. Then they proclaimed that truth for forty years, never once denying it. Every one of them was beaten Tortured, stoned, put in prison, and all but one was martyred. They would not have endured that had it not been true. You know the thing about a lie? It comes to the surface after a while. It's like a splinter. You get a splinter deep in your hand and you can't get it out, leave it alone. It'll come to the surface sooner or later. And I'll tell you what a lie does, it comes to the surface sooner or later. Here's what Colson said. He said Watergate embroiled twelve of the most powerful men in the world. And they couldn't keep alive for three weeks. It all unraveled. You know why? 'Cause there's a lie. You know why we're sitting here 2,000 years after the resurrection? We're sitting here worshiping the Lord Jesus Christ all these many centuries later. Do you know why we still sing with great joy, He lives, He lives, Christ Jesus lives today? Because we're not talking about a lie. We're talking about the truth. The truth that Jesus Christ is alive and well. My friend, listen, all of us have got to face that. All of us have to face that. There's coming a day when each of us, if the Lord tears his coming, will make our crossing. And we've got to face that truth. Will you face him as friend or will you face him as judge? Now, friend, let me ask you something this morning. Have you considered the claims of the Lord Jesus Christ? Oh, you can dismiss him if you will. But you know to do that would be, well, at least intellectually dishonest. And perhaps even at worst, spiritually suicidal. Dismiss him. I heard a fellow say to me one time, he said, Preacher, I guess I'll find out when I get there. I said that's a little too late. A. B. Simpson wrote a song, and this is the chorus. What will you do with Jesus? Neutral you cannot be. Someday your heart will be asking, What will he do with me? Can I urge you this morning? Do what John said. But as many as received him To them gave he power to become the sons of God. Even to them that believe on his name. Friend, receive him. It's an act of faith. See, I'm not trying to argue with anyone or logically stand here and debate. This is a spiritual matter. And every honest soul would have to admit I've sinned against God. And our sins often rise like a mighty mountain before us and condemn us. And there's only one answer for sin. Oh, you can be religious, and you know what religion does? It'll run you crazy. Trying to jump through the hoops and do all of the things that religion says do. You'll never be saved by religion. You'll only be saved through the Lord Jesus Christ. And my friend, if you're not saved today, I highly recommend him. I urge you today to receive him. Because here's what he does. You say, Well, I could never be a Christian. See, that's the thing about it. You cannot be a Christian. You say, but I could never live the Christian life. Friends, you can't live the Christian life. Join the long line of the rest of us who know it's utterly impossible. Uh i it's not you're not capable nor are you able to live the Christian life. But I'll tell you what can happen. Christ can live in you. And when Christ takes up residence in you makes all the difference in the world. I've got two pairs of gloves in the back of my old truck. And I I I use them. I got a winter pair and a summer pair. They're work gloves. I can take that work glove and I can lay it right here on the pulpit and I can say, I want you to go down there and shake Andy Bishop's hand And you know what that work glove is going to do? It's going to lay right there on that pulpit. Because it doesn't have life in it There's no life in it. I can say to that work glove, look, I want you to go out there and pull the weeds out of the garden, out of the flower bed. And you know what it'll do? It'll lay right there and not move. Because it don't have life in it. But now, if I take my hand and put it in that glove, now it's a different story. It's no longer just an inanimate object, it's got life in it And I can say to that glove, glove, I want you to go down there and shake Andy Bishop's hand. And you know what that glove will do? It'll come up in this hand, and this hand will walk down there, and I'll shake his hand. And this in this glove, I can say now glove, I want you to go out your under it, I want you to pull up the weeds out of the flower bed. You know what it can do? Because it's got life in it, it can go out there and pull up the weeds You see, my friend, until Jesus Christ moves in you, you're as dead as that glove. There's no life in you. There's nothing in you alive. You're dead in your trespasses and sin. But let Jesus move in, and now there's life in you. And that's what makes a Christian. He's got the life of the Lord Jesus on the inside of him. I pray this morning, you have that life. The Bible says there's two kinds of people sitting here right now. He that hath the Son hath life. And he that hath not the Son hath not life. Do you have life? Thank God Jesus came to give us life. And he'll give you life today if you'll but trust him. And dear brother, sister, believer, you remember something. The greatest thing about you is not you, it's who lives in you. Christ in you the hope of glory. I'm not going to heaven because I'm a preacher. I'm not going to heaven because I'm a Baptist. I'm not going to heaven because I've been to the baptismal pool. I'm not going to heaven because I carry a King James Bible. I'm not going to heaven because of anything I can claim. My only merit. The only thing I can say is I'm going to heaven because of the grace of God in the person of Jesus Christ. He's my Savior. And I'll tell you what, when it comes time to die, that's a good pillar to rest on. To know He's my Lord. He's my Savior. My friend, if you don't know him today, would you trust him? You've got to face the truth. He is risen. The Bible says very clearly, as he said , He 's not here. The tomb is empty. Choose wisely. Choose wisely. Because what you and I do with him is going to determine what he does with you and with me. Would you stand with me, please?