I appreciate that, don't you? Thank the Lord for his amazing love. You know, all of the false gods of the world are vindictive You ever thought about that? All of the idol gods, all of the things that people worship are vindictive. They're cruel and they're hard. But our God is a God of love. The Bible says God is love. And He He loves us. And He showed it He showed that love on Calvary when He died in our place. I'm thankful for that amazing love. Would you open your Bibles this evening to Revelation 14? And I'll read the entire chapter. As happens so many times in the Revelation, we're switching from an earthly scene to a heavenly scene. I don't know if you've picked up on that, but this is, I think, about the fourth time that we've changed scenery. It seems that we go from an earthly scene to a heavenly scene to an earthly scene to a heavenly scene. Dr. John Phillips said the stench of the earth cannot be uh stood by the saints, so they have to breathe heaven's air for a bit. And so that's what we're doing. We're breathing heaven's air And Revelation chapter 14, starting here, going all the way to Revelation 20, is a heavenly scene. I want you to keep that in mind as we read. We're looking in heaven now. We're seeing what's happening up there. And I looked, and lo, a lamb stood on the mount, Zion, and with him a hundred and forty and four thousand. having his father's name written in their foreheads. And I heard a voice from heaven as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of a great thunder. And I heard the voice of harpers harping with their harps. And they sung, as it were, a new song before the throne, and before the four beasts, and the elders. No man could learn that song but the hundred and forty-four thousand which were redeemed from the earth These are they which were not defiled with women, for they are virgins. These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth. These were redeemed from among men, being the first fruits unto God and to the Lamb, and in their mouth was found no guile, for they are without fault before the throne of God. And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation and kindred and tongue and people. Saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment is come And worship him that made heaven and earth and the sea and the fountains of waters. And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen. that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast in his image and receive his mark in his forehead or in his hand, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation. And he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever. And they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast in his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name. Here is the patience of the saints. Here are they that keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write. Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth. Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, and their works do follow them. And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of Man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle. And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle and reap, for the time has come for thee to reap, for the harvest of the earth is ripe. And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth, and the earth was reaped. And another angel came out of the temple, which is in heaven. He also having a sharp sickle. And another angel came out from the altar, which had power over fire, and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle, saying, Thrust in thy sharp sickle and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for her grapes are fully ripe. And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth and gathered the vine of the earth and cast it into the great wine press of the wrath of God And the wine press was trodden without the city, and blood came out of the winepress, even under the horses' bridles, by the space of a thousand and six hundred furlongs. What a passage of scripture. If you had to title this chapter, I would title this chapter, Heavenly Warnings. Heavenly warnings. Revelation chapter fourteen sounds an alarm bell of things that are coming. The fall of Babylon, the harvest, the final harvest, the reaping of the final harvest All of these things are things that lie out on the horizon. They're out in the future. And the Lord's giving a gracious warning of things to come. You know, this constant switching from heaven to earth or from earth to heaven is a continual reminder that no matter what's going on on the earth Everything's all right in the Father's house. On the earth, tribulation By the time we get to Revelation fourteen, we're towards the far end of this thing. We're near the end of the tribulation We're talking about the last of those seven years of tribulation, that last portion of the three and a half years of the tribulation. We're coming to that section. We're coming to that point. And as we come to that point, God just says, Now hold on a minute, look up here, and know that I'm still on the throne. And know that everything's happening just like I said it would. Now, dear child of God, no matter what's going on on earth, we better keep our eyes on heaven. Because there's a lot of things that go on earth that discourage us and dishearten us. But I'm glad everything happening in heaven always delights the child of God and brings encouragement to our hearts. So let's ask the Lord to help us. We'll pray and then study this together. Father, we bow in Jesus' name and certainly need your help once more. Oh Father, how we understand that without you we can do nothing. We need thy help, Lord, both to hear and to preach. And so I pray the Spirit of God would have his way. The dear people before me need as much help from the Spirit to hear as Lord this preacher does to preach. And may you do the work that's needed in all of our hearts to the glory of your great name. Now, Father, for these few minutes, empty me of me, fill me with thee, hide me behind the cross, and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus and Him alone And Lord, I'll praise you and thank you for what you do. Father, save the lost, reclaim the backslidden in heart. And Lord, just speak to us in a real precious way, and we'll praise you for what you do, for we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said Amen. You can divide this chapter in two portions. The first five verses talk about a sealed company. A sealed company. And the last verse, beginning in verse number 6, all the way to verse number 20, give us solemn warnings. And that's how we'll study this chapter. We'll look at the sealed company and then we'll look at the solemn warnings. Look with me, if you will, at the sealed company. Now, by the way, if it sounds familiar to you, it's because it is In Revelation chapter 7 and verse number 4, we are told that they were to seal in the forehead the mark that that mark that identified these as gods Twelve thousand from the twelve tribes of Israel. And so we have a hundred and forty-four thousand. By the way, these are not Jehovah's Witnesses. These are not those that would claim that special place of their own choosing. These are those Jews out of the tribes of Israel that God has ordained to be his evangelists throughout the tribulation period. Now we see them in Revelation 7 on the earth. You get to Revelation 14, you see them in heaven. You see the 144,000. Now don't miss this. You see 144,000, 12,000 out of the twelve tribes of Israel sealed in Revelation 7. But when you get to Revelation chapter 14, all 144,000 are in heaven. Do you know what that tells me? That tells me God didn't lose one of them. He didn't lose one. All 144,000 got through. Can I say this tonight? Just rest assured that if you're his, he will see you through. He don't forget you, he don't lose you, he don't misplace you. He don't overlook you. He don't say, oops, I lost that one. Thank God all will make it through. This sealed company, there's not one of them lost. Now remember, they're hated. The man of sin wants them dead The beast and the false prophet, they're walking through the most dangerous period on earth. Everybody else who's saved in the tribulation is going to die the martyr's death. But God has sealed these 144 ,000, and though they have uh been slandered, and though they have been sought after to be murdered, and though that the devil has done everything he could to silence them, God has brought them through unscathed. All 144,000. Now, if that don't talk of the power of God, I don't know what does. God is able to carry his children through. And I'm glad for that. I want you to notice, number one, this sealed company, they're standing with the Lamb. Look in verse 1. I looked and lo a lamb stood on the Mount, Zion. And with him a hundred and forty and four thousand having his father's name written in their foreheads. Now we know who that lamb is. That lamb we're introduced to way back yonder in the beginning of the book. This is the lamb slain before the foundation of the world This is none other than the Lord Jesus Christ. And standing on Mount Zion, alongside of him, are the 144,000. What a sight of victory it is, this sealed company standing with the Lamb of God. Can I say to you, dear Christian, we're not part of that 144,000, but don't be afraid to stand with the Lamb. You may stand with the Lamb on this earth and face slander and and and suffering untold, but I'm glad up yonder in heaven there'll be a place of honor for you to stand with the Lamb of God. If you suffered with him down here, you'll reign with him up there. The standing. They stood with the Lamb. Then notice in verse 2 and 3, they start singing about the Lamb. And I notice something as I've studied this, that every time the Lamb shows up, the songs erupt. Every time the Lamb comes on the scene, they just start singing. It's just like they can't help themselves. They realize that He's the Lamb. They sing that new song. Back yonder in the early part, is it Revelation 4? Uh when they saw the Lamb as it was slain sitting upon the throne, they started singing, Worthy is the Lamb. Worthy is the Lamb. They began to sing that song. And these likewise began to sing about the Lamb. Look what it says. I heard a voice from heaven. Watch this now, as the voice of many waters, as the voice of a great thunder. And I heard the voice of harpers harping with their harps. And they sung as it were a new song before the throne, before the four beasts and the elders. No man could learn that song, but the hundred and forty-four thousand Which were redeemed from the earth. Notice as they sing, you say, how do you know they're singing about the Lamb? Because I'll tell you, every time they're singing in heaven, it's always about Him. They're not singing about their experience. They're not singing about their suffering. They're not singing about their victory. They're singing about the Lamb of God. I want you to notice as they sing about this lamb, it's a song nobody else can sing. You know why? Because they hold a place nobody else holds. They're that unique group of individuals. And aren't you glad that the work of God's grace is often so unique that they are sweet songs of praise you can give him that perhaps nobody else can? Because God in His mercy has done something for you, you say, well, that I I'm not that special. Well, you you really are in the eyes of the Lord. He died for your sin, he paid your sin dead, and he's working it particularly in your life. And here they're singing a song that says, no man can learn it but them. Again, I believe that elevates the fact that they have a very unique position of all the peoples that are redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. And then the last thing that said about this sealed company was their straight living for the Lamb. In verse number 5, it says, These are they. And I like this. It identifies this is who they are. These are they, these are they, these are they. These are they which are not which were not defiled with women for their virgins. These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth. These were redeemed from among men, being the first fruits unto God into the Lamb, and in their mouth was found no guile, for they are without fault before the throne of God. Now, I don't believe these men are sinless, for they're men. They're not angels, they're not created beings, they're chosen men out of that Twelve tribes of Israel, the 144,000, 12,000 each, they're chosen out of that group. But I'll tell you what they were. They were holy men. They were pure men. And it says that they stood there and they were without fault. Do you know what, Jude, that little book says? That he's able to present you faultless? Before the throne of God? He's able to present you faultless. That doesn't mean sinless, but it does mean covered by the blood of Jesus Christ. You can stand faultless before the Lamb, just like these stand faultless before the Lamb. Here is a a sealed company who Live right for God. By the way, they come through terrible time There will never be a time on earth like the seven year tribulation. There never has been. Never has been. I was listening to this old fella. He was a farmer up in Wisconsin. Born in the early days of the Great Depression. Lived through all of that. uh saw the second world war, lived through that. He's a masterful storyteller. And I I've been listening to him as I go to sleep tonight, sort of wind my engine down a little And I I was listening to him and he was talking about that time period and he was talking about the rationing that went on and he was talking about how many uh young men who left their community to go fight in the war never came back He talked about hearing the uh people visit, you know, the the the officers come and say, I'm sorry to tell you your son was killed. He talked about all of those horrific things and and and how it was that they struggled for food and and they struggled with all these things. And he just he made that period of time so real and I thought, man, what a time it must have been to live during those days. There was no money to be had, there was little food to be had, it was just a terrific time of struggle And there are other times in history, can you imagine when those uh Christians were hunted like animals and chased through the forest and lived in the caves? and had to hide away to stay alive, and many of them failed in that because their lives were taken and they became martyrs for the faith. But I'm telling you that the seven years of tribulation is like nothing this world's ever seen. It will be during that time that the devil will re will will reign with a high hand He will rule upon this earth. The cruelty of Satan will be seen in the continual killings and conflicts that will take place on this earth. And the hundred and forty-four thousand are going to live through that and come out on the other end unscathed. You know why? Because God's ordained it. And they're going to listen, when they live, they're the off-scouring of the earth, they're hated by the enemy. It would appear to me that the multitudes in the tribulation are going to follow the Antichrist. That the majority is going to be on his side. And the sides are going to be, look, the line's going to be clearly drawn. It's not going to be sort of fuzzy and murky like it is in the day we're living in. Not sure who's God's, who's on that there's such a blending here. But I'm telling you, in that day there's going to be no blending It's going to be bow or die. It's going to be worship the beast or die. It's going to be stand for uh for the Antichrist or or suffer uh there for the Lord Jesus Christ. And these men are going to live through that period, and at the end of that period, they're going to stand on Mount Zion with the Lamb. I want to remind you tonight that when you stand with God, you're always standing for the right thing. And you'll all listen, God's children always end up on the right side of things. No matter how it goes up, well if it goes upside down, it goes upside down, but God's people always end up on the right side of things. They don't it doesn't keep you just because you're saved doesn't mean you'll not struggle, doesn't mean you'll have sickness, doesn't mean you'll not have financial reversals, doesn't mean you'll have disappointments and heartaches, but here's what it does mean At the end of the day, when it's all said and done, like these hundred and forty four thousand, you're gonna stand where there's no more sorrow And no more sickness and no more pain and no more crying and no more hallelujah. You're going to stand right with the Lamb of God. Oh, thank the Lord for this beautiful picture of the sealed company up yonder in heaven. Now let's quickly look at these solemn warnings. Beginning in verse number six, these warnings start. And I want you to notice that these are issued from heaven for the inhabitants of earth. Now, Revelation 14, if you had to put it somewhere, you've got to put it down here at the end. Imagine with me the seven years. Here's the beginning and here's the end. Revelation 14 is down here somewhere. It's down here close to the end of the tribulation period. And God is still in grace warning the people on this earth. God is still sounding a warning. Isn't that gracious? Isn't it merciful of God to say, hey, I I I'm going to give you a chance? We're going to see converts here in just a little bit. That means that that tells me that even towards the end of the tribulation, there's still people going to be saved. There's still people getting in. God 's goodness drips on every page of the Bible. The goodness of God, you I mean, I don't care where you turn or where you look, the goodness of God is visible. Even in God's judgments, his goodness is perceived. Isn't it a gracious thing? Hey, I'm warning you My dad and I were fishing in the Manahala River. There's a dam up on the on the upper end of that thing and and uh Man, it's it's awesome trout fishing, but every once in a while this alarm will go off and it that goes down the whole thing. And I remember the first time we were fishing there, that alarm went off and my dad ran like a cockroach in the light. Up the bank and I I didn't know what was going on. I'm like, where's he going? And he said, get up here, get up here. He started yelling and panicking and You better get out of there. The water's coming. The water's coming. I think the water I didn't know there was a dam up further up the river. And once I got up on the higher ground, we watched that river rise. Man, she rose so fast that had you been standing there, it would have washed you away. And I thought that's awfully good of them to have a warning. All through that river valley there are s there are uh warning instruments that go off when the dam opens So if you're fishing or you're kayaking or whatever you're doing along that river, you get a warning when that sounds, get out of the water, that's going to rise. The water's going to get swift. It's going to become dangerous. Revelation chapter 14 says, heaven's going to reverberate with that warning. And it's going to do more than fill a river valley. It's going to fill the whole earth. And the warning's going to go out. And the warning is going to be, you better turn to God. Let's look at the warning. First, there's a gospel warning. Oh, how good God is to send the gospel. Look what he says. I saw another angel fly. Now watch this. In the midst of heaven, uh heaven Having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to Him. For the hour of his judgment is come and worship him that made heaven, earth, the sea, and the fountains of waters. Now these hundred and forty-four have been the evangelists up to hundred and forty-four thousand, they've been the evangelists up to now They've been evangelizing, they've been preaching the gospel, you say what gospel? Don't come at me with there's more than one gospel. There's only one gospel Salvation by grace through faith in Jesus Christ. I don't believe there's several versions of the gospel. I think there's only one gospel And now the angel flies across heaven, and the angels declare unto the inhabitants of the earth to fear God. It's a gospel warning that goes out across the land. I believe this is literal. I really believe there's going to be that warning. God loves sinners so much that he's going to go to every link to see them saved by his wonderful grace. It's going to send a gospel warning throughout the earth. There's going to be not only a gospel warning, but there's a global warning. I didn't say warning, warning. W -A-R-N-I-N-G, global warning. Look at verse 8. And there followed another angel saying, Babylon has fallen. Is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. By the way, Babylon represents the beast's rule. And I do believe that what is happening here is that the social or the political and the economic and the religious realms have collapsed. That great Babylon has fallen. You know what this warning, this global warning is? It goes out and says that the empire of the beast has fallen. That it's come crumbling down. By the way, think about this for a minute. In the first part of the tribulation, he's going to do pretty good. He's going to be allowed to do pretty good. Peace will come, false peace will come, economic prosperity will come, there will be a a unity among the nations, a a coming together, he's going to rule and everybody's going to say, well, you know, we should have really listened to him to start with. He knew what he was doing. But just like all things that are true, the devil's devices don't stand the test of time. It's going to all come crashing down. And and this angel says it's fallen. There's going to be a collapse of this empire. And this warning's going to sound. Now by the way, I don't think at this point it's happened. Because as we get into Revelation 17 and 18, we see the fall of Babylon, we see the collapse of that great empire, but he's warning us it's coming. He's saying, don't put your trust in uncertain riches. He's saying to the earth, don't believe that the beast is who he says he is. He's not God incarnate. Don't believe that the rule of Satan is the real ruler of the earth. There's coming a day when his empire will collapse. Hear me now, please. The warning of God's word is still very faithful tonight. We live in a world that seems upside down. Right seems to be wrong, wrong seems to be right. Evil seems to prevail, wicked man 's men seem to prosper. It seems the more evil they are, the better ahead they get. But know this, that's a house of cards that'll soon come crashing down There's going to come a fall, a collapse of this whole thing. And he warns us here globally through this angel. Then notice the warning to the godless. And he spends most time here, and this is quite interesting to me. That third angel followed them in verse 9, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast, his image, and receive his mark in his forehead or his hand, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out, notice this, without mixture, it's not diluted Into the cup of his indignation, and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever, and they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast in his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name. Why don't you notice God's drawing the line in the sand? And he sends this this warning to the godless, and he says, I want you to know if you worship the beast, you'll suffer forever in hell. There's going to be torment that lies ahead for you. Folks, you can't get around it, you can't remove it, you can't excuse it. Hell is still a real place. The lake of fire lies before those who are eternally lost. And there's no way to avoid the reality that a man who rejects God is going to suffer in that place forever and ever. It's a horrible thing. It's a horrible reality that is written in the Word of God. Hell is not a fairy tale. The devil is not a make-up person. He's not a fake, a cartoon. He's very real. And people who reject Christ notice this. Here's what they're going to do. There's only two options. It's either to receive the mark or receive the master. And those that receive the mark are going to be ruined for all of eternity. And by the way, there's still only two options here tonight: either receive the Lord Jesus Christ or reject the Lord Jesus Christ. And to reject him is to find your eternity awaiting before you in a place of torment. Notice it says that their smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever, and they have no rest. Ah, what a sad picture that is. I don't know if it's because I'm getting old or what, but rest feels really good. I mean, just in if you can if you can rest. You know what I'm saying? I mean, if you can ever get in a place where you don't hurt, and you get in a place where you can sort of relax a minute Last night I slept harder than I have in a long time. I slept five hours straight. And when I woke up , I really thought rigor mortis had set in. Nothing wanted to move. I'm like, I gotta get up, but why won't my legs work? And why does it hurt when they do work? Right? I know some of you say, wait till you get I know I don't know, but I know, you know. I i i if this is a foretaste of things, it is not divine. I will tell you that. But know this there's no rest in hell. The devil's a liar, church. There's no parties in hell. There are no relationships in hell. There's no fun in hell. There's no meeting up with the crowd in hell. There's no rest in hell. Day and night the torment continues forever and ever and ever. You think of that rich man who's in hell. He's suffering as much now as he ever did the first moments he entered it. Oh my, what a sad warning, and yet what a reality, as God tells the godless, you've got to make your choice, you've got to make the decision. Here is the mark of the beast, or here is the rule of the master. Either bow and and and not be killed or bow to the Lord Jesus. Yes, you'll be martyred here, but you'll just go to be with the Master over there. Earth's best day does not compare to hell's worst. I'm here to tell you, no matter what the devil lays out and pours out on these dear people who trust Jesus Christ, In the tribulation, the worst he can give will not compare to the best that awaits when they meet the Lord Jesus face to face. And so we see that godless warning. Now look, here's something interesting. Here is a godly warning In verse 12 and 13 it says, here is the patience of the saints. Here are they that keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write, Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth. Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, and their works do follow them. I want you to notice the godless have no rest, the godly have a rest that's eternal. Enter into that rest And I believe we're talking about tribulation saints again. We're talking about people saved during that time period. And he said, I want you to know, blessed are they which die in the Lord. I'm going to tell you the devil's going to come up with some mighty cruel things, I believe, in the tribulation period. All you've got to do is study history and find out that ungodly men Have unbelievable ways of making other men suffer. When I read the Fox's Book of Martyrs, you know death came as a mercy. To some of those people. Death came as a mercy. And my how they suffered. But the Bible says, blessed are they which die in the Lord. There is a blessedness. There is a blessedness that only those that go that way will know. I'm thinking of several testimonies I've read of the nearness of the Lord in the times of martyrdom of his people. And man, they speak of the peace and they they speak of the presence of God. One of our Baptist forefathers, Obadiah Holmes, was was beaten Massachusetts and beaten to the point that he had to be uh helped to the bed and he was several days recovering His boots filled with blood as it ran down his back where they had beaten him. And here's what he said: it's as if they had beaten me with roses. And I don't believe it was the hallucinations of a hurting man. It was the testimony of a man who had tasted the grace of God. That special grace that God gives in moments like this. Blessed are they that die in the Lord. Yes, the t the cr the cruelty of the Antichrist, the man of sin. The cruelty of this hour is going to be incredible. And yet the grace of God is going to be immeasurable. God's grace is always greater than man's sin. And God's grace is going to prevail. And he says, Blessed are they which die in the Lord. Notice that godly warning, they'll have rest. They'll rest from their labors. There is going to come a day when God's little children will rest. And they'll rest with the Lord. I don't believe the Bible's teaching us anything about soul sleep or any such foolishness. But the satisfaction of being home, the war's past, the battle's over, the struggle's behind you The work and labor is done. We're home forevermore. Home, my friend, where we lay our swords down. Home where we don't deal with the devil anymore. Home where our bodies don't get sick and die. Home where we're out of reach of the enemy's arrows. We're home, home free, home at last. You remember playing little games when you were children and various forms of tag and what have you? When it would get dark in the summer, we'd play a little game called There Ain't No Bears Out Tonight. Even our games had poor English, you know. And we'd run around and play, there ain't no bears out tonight. Daddy shot them all last night. And you would run around until you heard the person who was the bear. And they'd be hiding out there in the dark somewhere. And they would roar and here they'd come. But usually, at least at our house, the front porch was home base. And that's where the light was, that's where the light was on, and that's where you could get to, where you could see. And if you could get on the porch, the bear couldn't get you. I mean, listen, I I I can remember just being a little fella and being learning that game the first time, and I was terrified My brother and my older sister, they were they would have to be the bear, you know, and they were good at man just scaring us to death. And I can remember hearing 'em we had hedgerows, English hedgerows around our whole house and Uh an Englishman had built our house and and had made gardens all around it and they would hide in those hedges. And the way you had to play, you had to go out in the dark. You couldn't stay up on the porch. You had to get out in the dark and you had to get out there and wander around. And man, I was shaking. My little uh my uh every little thing in my body was just trembling at some walking around there in the dark, and then you'd hear that bear roar And with everything in you, you'd run just as fast as you could to get to that porch. Boy, dive on that porch. And that I can't explain to you the feeling. Of sliding up on that concrete porch and being free from that bear. He couldn't touch you. He couldn't grab you and claim you. You were free. You were home free. In my little mind, it might as well been an 800-pound grizzly bear out there in those bushes that was after me. But when I got listen, when I got home, I I would stand up there When I got my home base, I'd stick my tongue out at whoever it was. And I'd say, You can't get me now, you can't get me now, because I'm safe and I'm at home. Aren't you glad we're going home, church? There is coming a place where the devil cannot molest, where the devil cannot enter, you're going to be safe. Standing with the Lamb of God who saved your soul from hell. Thank God we'll be home free. That godly warning. Now let me give you the last warning, and it is a gathering warning. You'll notice he speaks now in the illustration of a harvest. And we have a reaper in verse number 14. Notice one like unto the Son of Man. You might want to mark that because that's the last time you'll see that title. We were introduced to the Son of Man in prophecy in a psalm. We were told that the man in the fire was likened unto the Son of Man. Jesus took that title upon himself as he identified with you and me, and now the Bible in Revelation says the reaper The reaper is that one like unto the Son of Man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle. Who is that son of man? This is Jesus. He's the reaper. This corresponds with the sower and the seed. This corresponds with the wheat and the tares. This goes along with the parables that say There's going to come a day when the wheat is going to be separated from the tares, the lost from the saved, the fake from the real, and he's the reaper that's going to do the job. By the way, there's a gracious warning in this. He's the reaper, not you. You know, a lot of times we try to we try to figure out what only God knows. Don't you try to figure out who's the wheat and who's a tarot. You might just get it wrong. I'll be honest with you, if I'd have seen old Lot, I'd have said Lot was a tear. He was wheat. On the authority of what God said. But there is going to be a reaper who will make no mistake. Notice the ripeness, verse 15, and another angel came out of the temple crying with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud. Thrust in thy sickle and reap, for the time is come for thee to reap. For the harvest of the earth is ripe. And that speaks of a timing. Now look think about this. You don't harvest until the produce is ripe. You don't pick green fruit. Okay? There's a timing. Sarah was telling me they planted corn and they planted that Indian corn. My phone When I say Sarah, it thinks I say Siri. Alright? This thing isn't used to hillbillies. It's a dumb phone. It ain't a smartphone. Anyway, she may say something again, but Sarah planted some Indian corn. And she said it was the prettiest corn she had ever grown, and she could not wait to pick it. The night before it was perfectly ready. She got a visit from a mob of raccoons. And they cleaned the whole thing out. Didn't leave one piece. You know why? They knew it was ripe. Now I don't know how those little bandits know that things are ripe. But somehow or another they know they didn't get it the day before. They didn't wait till the day after. They knew that was the moment God says there's a ripeness. You know what's happening? When you look around you, you know you're seeing the earth getting ripe. She's getting ripe for judgment. Ebba, you can just see it come. It's ready. It's ready. The sickle's getting ready to be put in. The harvest is getting ready to be gathered. And the angel declares, it's ripe, it's ready, it's time. And then notice the reefing that begins in verse 16. He that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth, and the earth was reaped. Oh, what a day that's going to be. He's going to be gathering in those sheaves. He's going to be gathering in that that belongs to him and separating the shaft. He's separating that which is fake. He's separating that which is not real. And then he talks about, verse 18, another angel came, had power over fire, and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle, saying, Thrust in thy sharpsickle and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for her grapes are fully ripe. And you'll notice what happens here when he thrust his sickle in the earth, he gathered the vine of the earth and cast it into the great winepress of the wrath of God. And the winepress was trodden without the city, and blood came out of the winepress, even under the horses' bridles, by the space of a thousand and six hundred furlongs. Now I'm told by people that know these things that that's approximately 200 miles. It represents the space from Dan to Bersheba, the whole length of Israel. And what he's saying here is that God's judgment is going to be a complete judgment. And that blood's going to flow. And I think he's referring to what's to come in the Battle of Armageddon. He's talking about that day when the wrath of God is going to be unleashed on unsaved man. You know, back in the Old Testament There was an incidence where they removed the covering off the ark and looked in Uh thousands died. Man, the number eludes me. Hopefully it'll come back. But thousands died. Just like that. They were smitten. The Bible says God killed them. Just like that. Why? Because that covering on the ark was a mercy seat. That's where the blood goes. That's what stands between me and judgment. And when that judgment is evaded, when that When that mercy is put aside and there's nothing but judgment to come, oh the wrath of it is horrible. And what we're going to see in the end of the tribulation is the unhindered wrath of God poured out on mankind. Every rebel with his fist raised, ever soldier with his weapon lifted, every heart that is unbended and and unburdened of sin. Every individual who's resisted and rejected the grace of God, he's going to annihilate in a moment of time and he's going to destroy them immediately. You say, my preacher, that's harsh. But please hear me. God's given chance after chance after chance Mercy's been extended. Warnings have been issued. Grace has been poured out. Opportunity after opportunity. And man has settled in his heart that he would be the enemy of God and not bow, and now he's going to taste the wrath of God. What a tragic day. That makes me glad I'm saved by the grace of God. That makes me glad the blood's put my sin away That my heart's bowed on this side of eternity, that I'm not going to bend on the hot pavement of hell and have to say he's Lord. I've bent an old-fashioned altar and cried out, He's my Lord. I'm glad, my friend, for the blood of Christ that saves. But there's coming a day. Please hear me. There's coming a day when many Will be immediately judged, and the blood will run to the horse's bridle