Bible this evening, please, to Revelation 15. Revelation fifteen. There are eight very short verses here in this chapter. But it is a power-packed chapter indeed. And you know, as I read these verses, we see that only the Bible can give us glimpses of such activity that's taking place. You see, this chapter I've entitled it Heaven's Preparation. And we're getting ready to see the vials poured out upon the earth, the seven plagues, the Seven angels here are going to act in that final move of judgment. And we'll start reading about that later in verse in chapter number 16. But as we do so, we get to peek into heaven and we get to see how the Lord prepares to do his work. So Revelation 15, notice verse 1, it reads. And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous, seven angels having the seven last plagues, for in them is filled up the wrath of God. I saw, as it were, a sea of glass mingled with fire, and them that had gotten the victory over the beast and over his image. And over his mark and over the number of his name, stand on the sea of glass, having the harps of God And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvelous are thy works, Lord God Almighty, just and true are thy ways, thou King of Saints. Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? For thou only art holy. For all nations shall come and worship before thee, for thy judgments are made manifest. And after that I looked, and behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was open. And the seven angels came out of the temple, having the seven plagues. clothed in pure and white linen, and having their breasts girded with the golden girdles, and one of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels seven golden vials full of the wrath of God, who liveth for ever and ever. And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no man was able to enter into the temple till the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled. As you go on and read in chapter 16, orders are given to those seven angels to go pour out those seven vials. And that seven is a number of completion. This is going to be a complete uh end to the uh to the enemies of God. There's going to be a completion of the judgment. That's what I believe that seven is symbolizing or or recognizing in these seven angels. But I want you to notice this little chapter. We're still looking in a heavenly scene. We've been looking at earth, and for the last two chapters, we've been looking up to heaven. And heaven's making preparations to act on earth. And I want you to notice that it involves worship. That before heaven acts, heaven worships. Heaven worships before it works. Before the angels begin to pour out that judgment, there is a scene of worship here. And I want to look at this. And may the Lord help us with it practically and personally. May the Lord speak to us tonight. Let's pray Father, we come in Jesus' name and thank you for the privilege to pray. Lord, we sure need help tonight, and I pray that you would hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up Jesus. And would you do the work that's needed in every heart? Father, thank you for the Word of God. Lord, I appreciate my Bible. I thank you, Lord, that it shows us things that we would not know were it not recorded in this book. I thank you, Lord, for the privilege that we have to gather here. And we just ask, oh Lord, would you undertake in this service, get glory and honor to your great name, and we pray all of this in Jesus' name. And God's people said Amen. I want you to notice that there are four prominent things that are described here in this chapter. There's a sign and a C and song and a scene. And we're going to study this chapter in that way. I want you to notice first the sign. Look at the sign. I saw another sign in heaven. And notice he uses these words, great and marvelous. Seven angels having the seven last plagues, for in them is filled up the wrath of God. He talks about this sign that he sees up in heaven. He's looking into that unseen world. And you know there is an unseen world. There is a realm that you and I don't get to look into except we look into it through the pages of the Scripture. It's hidden to the eyes of man. It's hidden to us here this evening. If God were to take the blinders off and let us see the unseen, it might scare us to death. But there is an unseen world. And John John gets to see what you and I can't. And as he sees that, he sees that sign and he says, number one, he describes it as being great and marvelous. Great and marvelous. Now you'll notice that it it i the song that they sing involves this same description. I believe that man is often at a loss for words when it comes to describing the wonder and beauty and glory of heaven. I mean great and marvelous. That doesn't give me a lot of detail, but it does give me enough detail to know that it was pretty impressive. That what he saw, this sign that he saw, was something that impressed his heart, and he said, Boy, it's great and it's marvelous Do you know, I hath not seen, ear hath not heard, neither has it entered into the heart of man what God has gone to prepare for them who love him. Great and marvelous is I mean we just stand there nearly tongue-tied when we begin to think about the glory of this place I'm trying to describe Your imagination can't get big enough to describe the glory of it. Your thoughts cannot go far enough to consider just what heaven is going to be like. I know we try to put it in terms that we understand. And I know that we try to put it in in uh language that we can sort of fathom what it's all about. But the reality is it's far beyond anything we can describe. It's beyond what we can fathom and it's beyond what we can understand. But here's what we do know it is great and it is marvelous. So thank God for that description. And then he goes on And he talks about the determination. And notice the determination of these seven angels with the seven last plagues. Notice in them is filled up the wrath of God. Filled up the wrath of God. The wrath of God is hailed In the hands of these seven. It's like a waiting a waiting army to be unleashed. Field up And I want you to notice as we think about this sign that John sees, we realize that heaven is making preparation. There's no rush, there's no hurry. It's just simply a divine demonstration that they're ready to act. And they're standing, we see them coming as we read on, we see them coming out of the temple. And I want you to notice that though God's judgments might move slowly, they move certainly. And the reality is that heaven is preparing For this wrath of God to be poured out upon the earth. Don't think for a minute that God's delays have changed his determination. The Bible tells me that He's not slack as men count slackness, but He's long-suffering to usward. In other words, God's being merciful. You know, when you think about the flood that came upon the earth God's mercy extended that, I believe, that time. That extended period of time was just the mercy of God. God was giving man another opportunity, giving man another opportunity, giving him another opportunity. God was being merciful. And church know this that we're living in the days, I like to call these days, the days of God's mercy. God's just being merciful, isn't he? He's being merciful. The wrath of God is poised and ready and prepared. And those angels, they stand ready at the call of God. to pour forth these seven vials and seven plagues upon the earth. They're ready to bring an end to all things. So John sees this sign. Then notice quickly he he speaks of a sea here In verse number two, and I saw as it were, look at this, a sea of glass mingled with fire. Imagine what that looked like. Them that had gotten the victory over the beast and over his image and over his mark and over the number of his name stand on the sea of glass, having the harps of God. So we start again with the description. Now he sees the sign and he sees those seven angels and he says it's great and marvelous. And then he sees the sea, and when he sees the sea, he says, It's a sea of glass mingled with fire. I tried to imagine what does that look like? I mean, can you imagine what does a sea of glass look like mingled with fire? I can't Put my little head around it. I I got an image in my mind that I think it might look like, but here's what I do know. According to John's very first words, it was great and marvelous. And he sees this sign, or this sea rather, and he gives that description. Even the judgment of God holds a beauty of its own. God's ways are such that it it portrays who He is in everything He does. Our God leaves His fingerprints on everything. Isn't it a marvel when you look at creation? I don't know how people can look at creation and not believe in a creator. I don't know how we can look at the world around us. And hear the song of birds and and and and see the the splendor of of of the earth, the mountains and the sea, and see all the beauty that God's made and and say, Wow, isn't it something how all that just happened? I see the marvelous hand of God. I see the power and the beauty and the glory of a God who loved me enough, even though this is a sin-cursed world. It still has a beauty that reflects His majesty. You stand and look at those rocky mountains and see them reach up into the heavens. You see the power and the beauty of a God who made those things with just mere speech. Spoke. When you look up into the night sky, my uh you when you look I love this time of year because it seems the stars are brighter And it seems like heaven's more visible. And when you look up into the sky and you see the moon, you see the stars, you see the beauty of the night sky. And to think that my God flung it out just like you would opening the curtain in the morning, that demonstrates the beauty and the majesty of God. Don't for a moment take for granted what great things God has done that your eyes look at every single day. When the sun rises in the morning. I watched this morning, there wasn't much of a sunrise per se, at least not in our little hollow, but uh there was a stealing on of light. It just sort of came softly It went from darkness to light, and and that light just kind of filtered down through those trees, and I thought, what a God I must serve Who who just simply makes the day dawn in such a splendor, such a glorious and a and a way of splendor. Think about it for a moment. Don't take those things for granted. Those beautiful sunsets that he paints in the evening sky. That shows his beauty and his glory. And yet, what we've seen down here pales in comparison to what we're going to see up there. These men were singing about the streets of gold. That's not a fairy tale, by the way, that's the truth of Scripture. That's the reality that we're soon going to enter into and have the joy of seeing and and knowing. And beloved, listen, that's what's waiting on us over there. Folks go all crazy about fine uh you know wealth down here. And and you know gold and I guess gold prices are just out of the uh you know, just uh off the charts right now, they claim and and uh all of that. A and they get so excited about all these things. I like to watch those guys gold mining and doing things like that. And and uh man they get so excited when they find these these big veins of gold. But you know what? Up there. They pave streets with it. Where we're going. That they use it for asphalt. I'm here to tell you, my friend, there is a great and marvelous splendor that awaits us when we go home to glory. And John saw a sea, and that sea was glass mingled with fire. I want you to notice as well not only the description that is given here, and I believe, by the way, that that description portrays something of what's about to happen. That sea is the sea of glass. It's transparent. It's mingled with fire, and fire in revelation is always representative of judgment And God is being transparent about what He's about to do. He's about to judge the earth. The wrath of God is filled up, and that final judgment is about to come. But not only do we see a description, but I see a detailed company. So detailed, in fact, that we know who they are. He calls them, notice this, he says that when he saw that that sea of glass mingled with fire, and them. Now who are them? There's a lot of them in heaven. And so he says, here's who they are. Them that had gotten the victory over the beast. I don't know about you if that encourages me. The devil don't always win. And he's not gonna win here They got the victory over the beast. They got the victory over his image. That means they didn't bow and worship that idol that he made, that image that they set up They got the victory over his mark. That means they didn't take it. And over the number of his name. Stand on the sea of glass, having the harps of God. You might call this company the Martyrs Choir. Here they are. They're that great, vast number of individuals who have been saved in tribulation. They did not take the mark, they did not bow to the image, and they did have to give their lives according to the Word of God. Now there are individuals who we know, according to 2 Thessalonians, that we know have not Heard the gospel in the age of grace. There are not men and women who rejected Christ before the rapture and then move into the tribulation and get a second chance. My Bible says that God will send that group a strong delusion, they'll believe a lie, and they're damned, they cannot be saved They had an opportunity, but they send away their day of grace. But this company of individuals, and it's a vast number of peoples, And it tells me that they are the people who overcame. They got the victory over that beast. And look at that great company of individuals standing there as a choir ready to sing for the glory of God. I don't know about you, but it encourages me when I think of them. I think about their last moments on earth. Many of them, most of them, all of them, those last moments are horrific. Those last moments were moments of suffering and torture and martyrdom. They're laying down their life. They're like old Stephen. Stephen's drug out here and and and I mean man, they are they are violently, violently taking his life They're throwing stones at Stephen. And Stephen lets us look up into heaven and gives us through the word of God, he gives us a description. He says, I see Jesus. And he's standing at the right hand of God. Now these martyrs leave here in misery, but they arrive up yonder in glory. They leave the sufferings of this sin-cursed earth to sing in that great choir in heaven. What a beautiful thing it is to belong to the Lord, whatever age you find yourself in. This world holds the worst you'll ever face. This world holds the worst you'll ever endure. This world has the most difficult thing you'll ever have to go through, but thank God over yonder all that is done. It's finished. We're home. We're rejoicing in the presence of God. Oh, listen, you've got much to look forward to if you're a child of God. Don't hang your head and apologize for being a Christian. Don't act like it's some sad, sorry thing to belong to the Savior. It's a joyful delight. And whatever we are called upon down here, thank God up there it'll be but a passing memory. It won't even be a memory likely. It won't even come into our minds because we are now home at glory. Look at that great multitude standing ready on the sea of glass to sing their glad song. Then notice their song. In verses 3 and 4, they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvelous are thy works, Lord God Almighty, just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints. Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? For thou only art holy, for all nations shall come and worship before thee, for thy judgments are made manifest. You know, modern-day songwriters would be wise to take a note from Scripture. I don't know how to say this, I just say this. There's no fluff here. This isn't light silly stuff. This is meaningful deep. This is good. This is godly. This'll this glorifies the Lord. There's nothing here that speaks of the experience of man. It all points to the greatness of God. They're not singing about themselves, they're singing about the Lord. I don't know about you, but I'm tired of songs that you can't figure out who in the world they're singing about. You listen to them and you wonder if they're singing about God or their girlfriend. You could turn it either way. But you can't take one song in the scriptures and look at it and say, who are they talking about? There's clarity in the scripture songs. And here they are singing a beautiful song. And notice this song first, it's divided into two titles. It's given two titles: The Song of Moses, the Servant of God, and The Song of the Lamb. Now I find that interesting. The first song in the Bible is the Song of Moses. And it was a song of redemption out of Egypt. Moses sings it. You find it in the Word of God. You'll find where they sung of redemption. In heaven, they sing the song of the servant of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the lamb. The song of the lamb is the last song in Scripture. This is the last song in the Bible. So we've got the first song and the last song coming together in heaven sung by these martyrs up in glory. And the song of the Lamb is the song of the raptured. The song of those that had been delivered. Here is the song that they're singing. Listen, the song of Moses was the song about being brought out. The song of the Lamb is the song about being brought in. The song of Moses was about the delivering power of God from the terrors of Egypt, but the song of the lamb is the song of being delivered from the terrors of the beast. Being delivered from the paw of the lion, if you will. Interesting that he would combine these two and they'd sing them up in glory But I want you to notice not only how they're divided, but look at the details. There are three things about this psalm. Number one, it speaks of the greatness of his works. They sing the song of Moses, it says, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, say, look at this. There's those words again. Great and marvelous are thy works. Lord God Almighty. Do you notice how they address him? They speak to him as Lord God Almighty, the Almighty, the the the all-ruling one, all powerful one. They're singing of the greatness of his works. They're talking about and and listen again, it it's one of those things where they've come to the place where where we're language, where our words just seem to fail You ever try to describe something and and you just feel like you don't have a vocabulary big enough to describe it? You just feel like you're you just You're just stunned. You're just it's one of those the old Scottish preachers says some things are better felt than telled. You just gotta know them, but you can't really tell them. And this is one of those things, and they say, great and marvelous are thy works. These are souls that have been brought through that tribulation. They've been saved out of that. Although they were martyred, they've been delivered and taken up to heaven. And now they look back over a long line of the works of God and they say, Great and marvelous are thy works, Lord God Almighty. And every child of God can sing that song because we have a Bible that tells us how great and marvelous the works of God are. We can look all the way back to creation and say that all he's done, he's done well. That all he does is great and it's marvelous and and what a mighty God we serve. When we read the parting of the Red Sea, we're not reading fairy tales. When we read God doing uh the great things that He did when He raised the dead, When he fed the children of Israel in the wilderness, when he clothed them, when he led them and guided them about with the pillar of fire and with the clouds. Listen, you're you're reading the great and marvelous works of God. If you've been saved any amount of time, you've got to say there have been some great marvelous works done in your life. The fact that you're saved and going to heaven is a great marvelous thing. It took no small miracle for you to get saved. It was not a little thing when God stopped by, knocked on your heart's door. It wasn't it wasn't just a a a passing thought, it wasn't just a a passing fancy. It was a mighty work of God that birthed you into the family of God. And you'll no longer be what you once were because you've been born again. You can't undo that second birth no more than you can undo your first birth. You can't undo it. You've been saved. And hallelujah for the salvation that comes by grace through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. That is a great and marvelous work. I'll tell you another great and marvelous work is the keeping power of God. The fact that He keeps you by His power. We are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. If it was up to me and you to keep our salvation, we'd be lost in a moment. If you had to hold on and hold out and hope to the end, oh beloved, what a miserable lot we'd be. Some of us can't even keep up with our keys. How long how do you think we'll keep up with our souls? My most often asked question in this building is, where did I leave my keys? And thanks to a dear sister in the congregation, I now have a tile. So If you see me walking around listening for something, I know exactly where it's at. Because it sings off. It sings a little note and says, I'm over here, I'm over here. Don't say that, but you know. That's what that little song says to me. I'm over here We can't keep up with these temporal things. How do we think that we keep ourselves? I'm glad I don't have to It's a great and marvelous work of God that he keeps me as his own. And by the way, it is because we have a great high priest who's passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, whoever liveth to make intercession for us. He's there in the glory world, pleading my case. He's there in the glory world representing me. His blood has pardoned me. His intercessions keep me. Thank God I have Jesus The Son of God as my Savior, my high priest, my elder brother. Thank God he's my redeemer and my best friend. Thank God for his great and marvelous. We're talking about great and marvelous works. Don't think for a minute you're going to sing some old sad song in glory about how s how hard it was down here. No. I'll tell you some music's just depressing. You know, I like to hear 'em pick a banjo and and uh play a mandolin and and a and a fiddle and all of that. But have you ever listened to some of the things they sing about in that bluegrass music? Man, it's depressing. Somebody's always dying, going missing, can't find them. Left you all that somebody said if you play country music backwards, remember some of you are old enough remember when they had backmastered something and it it would supposedly say something or whatever, have a message. But they tell me if you backmaster country music, you get your wife back and your dog back and your truck back. All that stuff comes back that you lost. I don't know. That's pretty depressing. And a lot of that that's all it is. But I'll tell you, in heaven, nobody's gonna sing and lick their wounds and talk about how hard they had it down here. Nobody's going to sing about the trials and the suffering and the struggle. We'll sing about the great and marvelous works of God. We'll sing about His greatness, His glory. What great things the Lord's done. I don't know about you, but I want to get tuned up and tuned in right now and start singing the right sort of song. But then not only did they sing about the greatness of his works, but they sung about the goodness of his ways. Look what they said. True, just, verse three, last part, just and true are thy ways, thou King of Saints. Just and true. God 's ways are good ways. And they sing about the good ways of God. Now I'll be the first to admit I don't understand all of God's ways. There's a lot of the ways of God that puzzle me, perplex me. I don't understand it. But here's what I've resolved, and I have to resign to: that his ways are good ways. He knows best. I imagine our children, you as a child too, oftentimes thought things were uh were such that they said they were good, but they really didn't seem good Yeah. I I I I can remember uh being disciplined and and my dad said, you know, this this is gonna be good for you one day, son. And I'm thinking, boy, that's the lie of the century. That is the lie of the century. But now I look back and I say, you know, that was good. I'm thankful. The rod of correction drives foolishness out of the heart of a child. Some of us had a whole lot of foolishness to get drove out. Good ways. Good ways. God's ways are good ways. When when when I don't know you know I look at Abraham and how God led him through You you you would think there were times in Abraham's life he wasn't quite sure were these good ways, but they were good ways When Jacob uh, you know, got word that uh that that the uh Pharaoh in Egypt wanted his his Firstborn, or excuse me, his last son, his youngest son, and he cried out, he said, All these things be against me. That was just God's good way. It really was going to work out for his good. He didn't know it yet, but if if you could fast forward a few days, he would realize that all of this loss was going to come to an eternal gain. And so it is with the with God. When we we look into heaven, we hear them singing, they're saying, Just and true art thou. And I love this, King of the Saints. You see that title? That's a unique title, by the way, used here in the Revelation. King of the Saints. You know this old world thinks it's mastered you and me. I believe the old beast thought he had them under his thumb and said, You know what? I can extinguish this crowd. I'm going to put them out like you mash a a bug on the sidewalk somewhere. I'm going to put 'em out of business one by one by one. And the and when they get up to heaven they realize that God was still God and He was the King of the Saints and they sing about the goodness of His ways. Then the third thing they sing about is the glory about worship. You'll notice it says in verse 4, Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? For thou only art holy, for all nations shall come and worship before thee, for thy judgments are made manifest. Do you know what I believe they're doing? They're looking now forward Isn't it interesting? God's people have always got something to look forward to. Here they are in glory and they're looking forward. What are they looking forward to? When all nations shall come worship? Now when will that happen? That'll happen in the millennial reign. After the battle of Armageddon and the and Satan is bound and cast into the pit for a thousand years, there's going to be a a rain upon this earth when the sin curse has lifted Can you imagine what it's going to be like? Man, you think flowers are beautiful now. I believe during the millennial reign it'll blow your mind. The beauty of the flower as it blooms. You think nature is beautiful, the animals and the birds and what have you. I wonder in the millennial reign if we will hear what it is they're singing when they sing. That little Carolina Wren hops up on the fence post behind our house, oh about 545 every morning and starts his song. And it's a beautiful song. I love to hear them. But I wonder if we'll not here in the millennial reign. Glory to God. Praise the Lord. Huh? You say, preacher, you're crazy. Well, not near as crazy as you are. I believe the Bible. Amen. I do believe that that in the millennial reign the curse will be lifted. And not only will the curse be lifted, but thank God this the devil will be bound. Hallelujah for that time. Man, when the enemy is bound, the aggravation of hell will no longer be endured by the saints of God. Oh, what a glad day that's going to be. And then the saints are going to worship. Now, Jerusalem is going to be the epicenter of worship. We're told back in the prophets that they will sail, they will sail up to the temple, they'll sail to that place, and that'll be the epicenter. The Lord Jesus will be enthroned. On David's throne, he will rule and reign with a rod of iron, and all worship's going to be funneled to that place. Boy, I've been in some good services, but you'll never be in them like you're going to be in them in the millennial. You think you've worshiped down here. You wait till the the curse is lifted. You wait until that glorified body is yours. You wait until all the sins passed and the devil. You know what? The old devil, do you know he comes to church? He's here every week. He he's here all the time. And he's aggravating and and hindering and stopping and a lot of times he'll take your praise. He'll take your worship, he'll take your attention, he he he will he will rob you 'cause that's all he does. He's a thief. He comes to steal And the kill destroyed. He'll get your mind on something over here. He'll get you tore up about something that don't mean nothing so that you miss what God's got for you. That's what he'll do. And you'll go home empty-handed, not because God didn't come with something for you, but because the devil got in there and messed things up But know this, in the millennial reign, there's going to be no devil to mess things up. There's going to be the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ in person, and all nations are going to come and worship. And up yonder in heaven They've already look at they're looking down the road and they're singing about the glory around this worship during that time. Oh my, what a song. What a song it is. Now quickly, let me get to the scene. And we're shown this and starting in verse number five. And after that. I looked, and behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened. And the seven angels came out of the temple, having the seven plagues, clothed in pure and white linen. And having their breasts girded with golden girdles. And one of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels seven golden vials full of the wrath of God who liveth forever and ever And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no man was able to enter into the temple till the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled. Now notice the dealings of God These seven angels come out of this open temple of the tabernacle, the testimony in heaven. Someone has said that this is a glimpse into the holy of holies in heaven. They come out. And notice as they come out, they are given those seven vials that are full of that wrath of God, those plagues, and they come out to do God's bidding They do not rush out. They're not like a lot of folks when they leave church. Man, I'll tell you, when you say the last amen, you better be careful. Some folk will run over you. Well they'll I mean they'll run over you in the parking lot, they'll run over you uh in the in the pew or on the on the aisle somewhere, man they just can't wait to get out. I'm worried about that crowd that just can't wait to get out I know sometimes we got things to do and places to be, but boy, if we always anxious to get out of God's house, we ought to make sure that we wanted to get in when we first come. They walk out. Do you see that? Picture this in your mind. It's a scene of majestic order. There's nothing rash here. They're not rushing out in hot passion or temper, but they're going out. One of the four beasts gives them a vial. Each one gets his vial. And now they're ready. It's God's dealings. But you'll notice where they came from. They came out of that temple. Out of that holy of holies, they stand ready to do the will of God. Now watch this. I want you to see this display of deity. Because it says that after in verse 7 they were given those golden vials full of the wrath of God, the temple, verse 8, was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power. To understand this, we've got to go back to the Old Testament and remember when Solomon dedicated that first temple. And the Bible says that when he finished praying, That a cloud came on that temple. And the glory of God so filled it the priests couldn't enter in. In other words, God's presence was so real and so powerful and so glorious that it was impossible to move in that manifest presence of the Lord. They tell me in times of great revival that often men are destruck by the presence of God. That God is there and man knows it. That God has come and man's in awe of it. They tell me there was an instance in Wales when the men were down in the mine and God just showed up in the mine. Now we know God's everywhere. God just don't show up anywhere. God's everywhere. But the manifest presence of God is something special. And we see that. You see that on the Mount of Transfiguration, Jesus was as much God when he climbed the mountain as he was atop of it. But there was a time that he revealed his deity and his manifest presence made that a mountain of worship And often God will make God will make Himself known. And so God made Himself known in that mine, and one minor, one minor wrote this down. And it's been recorded from that time forward that he said, even the ponies bowed their head in reverence. They knew who was there. They recognized who was in their presence. They knew this is the Lord. This is the Creator. They recognize that God was there. Can you imagine when these angels step out and they're about to do a very solemn and serious deed? They're about to bring an end to all things. They are going to be the instruments God uses to pour wrath upon man. And they come out and they come out of a scene of worship where the glory of God is such that no man notice what it says i in that last part. No man was able to enter into the temple till the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled. It was such a manifestation of the glory of God. That you could not go into that place, that Holy Voice, or near that presence of God until they had done their job and brought this thing to an end. Oh, listen, what a display of the glory of the deity, of the Lord God Almighty. And listen, this is judgment. If God's judgment is so glorious, tell me what his favor is going to be like. If the judgment of God bears such glory that they can't even get no closer. You tell me, dear friend, what it's going to be like when he smiles on the earth and lifts the curse and the millennial reign begins. You'll need a new body, or you'll strip this one out of gear, giving him the praise for who he is. But I said all of that to say this. Before heaven went to work, heaven first worshiped And before you and I do anything for God, we need God to do something for us. General Booth said, Pray glory down on your soul every day. Pray glory down on your soul. Hey, if you don't know what it is to worship, you'll not know what it is to work with the blessing of God. You've got to worship before you work. I'll tell you why a lot of Christians are tired and discouraged and disgruntled and disobedient because they're sitting at home and they're sour and no longer serving God. Because somewhere they stopped worshiping. Somewhere along the journey, they said, you know what? What I gotta do is more important than what I need done in my heart. And so they got busy working and they forgot to worship. Church, don't neglect that. You say, when do I worship? You ought to worship every chance you get. Worship isn't about a day, worship isn't about a place, worship isn't about a posture, worship is about you getting in the presence of God and giving him the glory for who he is. Worship is about recognizing that God is God and He's the Almighty and we are mere servants of His and seeing Him in all of His splendor and beauty. You've been given a Bible and the Holy Ghost lives inside of you to take these things and make them real so that you'll have time to worship and take the time. You ought to start your day with worship. You ought to worship every opportunity you get. We worship in this place. All of these things help us as we prepare to work for God. These seven angels will not carry out this final command until they first worship God in heaven. And God is so pleased that his glory fills that place, and no man can enter it until the work is done. I wonder if our work wouldn't be more profitable if our worship was more present in our lives. Heaven's preparations always start with worship. There's a lot of things today we call worship that's not worship at all. It's mere the excitement of flesh, the stirring of emotion, the transient thing of the soul. It's a thing that just has to do more with time than anything But worship impresses on the heart the wonders of the God we serve. Worship makes you bend in awe of him who's altogether lovely. Real worship is not so much an expression as it is an impression. Now worship has to have expression, or else it'll explode. But the impression of it, the the the impressing upon the heart is that God is God. If I could say there's one thing lacking in the church today, it's this thing of real worship. You can sing a wonderful hymn and not worship at all. You can sing it accurately, scripturally, you can sing it pleasantly, and it be void of worship. It's not about the performance, it's about the reality of what it is we're singing about. Worship. Worship is the moving of a man's heart, his innermost being, to see the reality of the beauty and splendor and wonder, the great and marvelous things of God. Recognizing like John, he's great, marvelous. Everything about him is. Worship. By the way, you don't work that up. You prayed that in. You don't work it up. I'll tell you what, the presence of worship leaders is a sign we've missed the mark. There is a worship leader. He's called the Holy Spirit. And he leads us into worship. If we'll listen to him, he'll lead you into worship. I see that title and people say , well, this is our worship leader. No, he ain't either. The Holy Ghost is the worship leader. And if I need a worship leader, it means somewhere another I'm looking to man to do what only God can do. I'm not being foolish over semantics. I'm not just talking about terminology. I'm talking about the reality of understanding. that just because you sing a song and it's got a certain m mood to it and it's sort of prepared, uh it all of that is the work of flesh. I don't need that. True worship is born in the heart as the Spirit of God takes the truth of God and impresses it upon us. And we say, Oh Lord, you're great and marvelous. Great and marvelous. Jesus stood and talked to a lady and she said, Our father said you worship on this mountain. Your father says you worship here. Remember what he said? They that worship him must worship him in spirit. And in truth. Oh, dear friend, let the Bible teach us a lesson that worship always must precede our work May God make us good worshipers. Starting in our closet. Starting in that inner place. That place where you get along with the Lord. If you can't enjoy him in private, don't dream about enjoying him in public You can't get in that secret place and enjoy the Lord. Somebody says, well, you know, I uh it just don't do for me what being with others. And what they're really saying is that I need that priming. You know. I need my pump prime. Some of you are old enough to remember having to prime an old pump My my daddy had spent many hours. He probably spent a quarter of his life in the basement priming our pump. Had to pour water in it and get that thing to start pumping the water like it was supposed to. Oh, how frustrating that must have been He had to you had to give it water. Here's the strange thing. You gotta give it water to get water. You gotta pour a little something in it before it starts chugging and picking it up And you got your priming, that's what you're doing. And a lot of Christians are are are needing the priming. They need the priming of a crowd, or they need to priming of a of a song that moves them. I'm glad the Holy Ghost is big enough to do all the priming that we need priming. If your pup needs priming, get in touch with God. He'll do the priming. The Spirit of God is able to do that. Watch them worship. Oh church. May the Lord help us to be a worshiping people. Who worship in that secret place. And by the way, that'll make your private or your public place a whole lot sweeter. Because you've worshiped him there. Then when you gather with God's people, it won't be such a strange thing when your heart is impressed with the great and marvelous works of God, and you'll worship him for who he is. Father, take these few feeble words and use them for your glory