In John chapter number one, in verse number fourteen, the Bible says, And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. I want you to think with me for a few minutes this morning on the birth of Christ from heaven's perspective. The birth of Christ from heaven's perspective. Father, as we bow in your presence this morning, I want to thank you for what we've already both seen and heard. Lord, how grateful we are for the simple reminder that you came to this earth and came with a great purpose. Would you please open our eyes to see afresh just what the birth of the Lord Jesus truly is about? I thank you for the Word of God and the Spirit of God. I thank you for these young people. Who have honored you here this morning. And help us now to continue to do that, Lord, from your precious word as we preach the truth as it is in Jesus. For it's in his mighty name we pray. And God's people said, Man you can be seated. I don't know if you've ever Tried to read all of the accounts of the birth of Jesus Christ. In fact, when you do, you'll find out that Matthew Records the birth of Jesus Christ in about 30 verses. Doesn't have a lot of detail, but he does give us about 30 verses that deal with the birth of Jesus Christ. And Matthew looks at it from the perspective of Joseph and from the perspective of Jesus Christ being the King of the Jews. In fact, he starts out establishing in chapter number one the lineage of the Lord Jesus back to the great King David, so that we would understand that Jesus Christ Is rightfully the heir to the throne of Israel. He shows us the perspective of Joseph, primarily in Matthew's gospel. Now, all of the gospel accounts are true, and all of the gospel accounts bear details that perhaps the others do not But they all tell us something critical and important. When you get to Mark's gospel, Mark just launches right into the life and ministry. There's no mention of the birth of the Lord Jesus. When we come to Luke's gospel, we get the most detailed account. That is given in the Word of God. In fact, Luke records in about 104 verses the birth of the Lord Jesus. And I believe Luke gives us the human perspective. Because Luke talks about Mary's outlook, Mary's perspective, what Mary went through. Luke tells us about the shepherds. Luke tells us about Simeon and Anna. He tells us about the angels. And he gives us the whole view of the human perspective of what it was like to be there the night the Lord Jesus was born. It is Luke that tells us about the wise men. Luke shares with us about those men coming some two years later and bring him their gifts to present to that now toddler, the Lord Jesus And so he gives us that perspective. We get to the Gospel of John. I find it interesting. He doesn't use 30 verses. He uses 30 words. But in thirty words, what a mouthful is spoken. What I appreciate about my Bible is that it doesn't take God all day to say something. And when God says something, he says it with such clarity and authority that it doesn't take a whole lot of words to communicate a great big message. And that's what happens here in John 1:14. Verse number 14 is the only reference to the birth of the Lord Jesus in John's gospel. And he gives us heaven's perspective. I want you to notice that when John talks about the birth of Christ, he never mentions Mary. When John talks about the birth of Christ, never mentions Joseph. I'm going to have to say , I think that was i in their costumes up here, it's hard for me to tell. But I think that was Wyatt and Ellie. Is that who it was? Okay. That has to be the best behaved Mary and Joseph I've ever seen I watched Mary for a minute to make sure she wasn't a mannequin. I mean, she never moved. That's unusual, isn't it? A lot of times in our Christmas programs you have to separate shepherds who are sword fighting, and Joseph who's doing various things. But Mary and Joseph, wasn't they they did a wonderful job. Sitting there so stoic and and just so perfect. When John told us about the birth of the Lord Jesus, he never said a thing about Mary and Joseph. In fact, when John tells us about the birth of the Lord Jesus, he never tells us a thing about angels. Doesn't say a thing about angels. He tells us absolutely nothing about shepherds. He tells us nothing about The singing of the choir in heaven as they announce the birth of the Lord Jesus tells us nothing. John tells us nothing about wise men coming from afar. But what he does tell us is what we need to know. Because John tells us the reason he came. Matthew, Luke, they gave us the what. It's John who gives us the why. John says, let me tell you why he came. You see, the proceedings were not near as important as the purpose. It wasn't so much the details that surrounded. And there's some, to me, some very fascinating details about the birth of the Lord Jesus. I don't know about you, but I've often thought about it as I've imagined what it would have been like to be a shepherd and be standing there and all of a sudden an angel shows up. Now wouldn't that be something? I don't imagine those shepherds wore boots, but if they did, they'd be shaking in them I fancy they probably had their sandals on or whatever. Or maybe they were barefoot, I don't know. But I promise you this, there were some knees knocking when the angel You say, how do you know? Well the first thing the angel said was fear not. Don't be afraid. The reason he had to tell them not to be afraid is because they were scared to death. I don't care how big and bad you are, but something comes from another world and stands in your face. Says, I've got something to tell you, you're gonna be afraid. And they were afraid. I I can imagine I mean just imagine Can you imagine what it would have been like to be one of those wise men who travels all that distance and and and you're following this star and you realize that it's leading you? to the very king of Israel, the Messiah, the promised one, the fulfiller of prophecy. I believe those wise men had at least access to the writings of Daniel. And they're reading about what Daniel said, and they're doing the math, and they're saying, it's about time. The Messiah's to come. And they came in faith believing, and as they got there, they were able to kneel down and worship that King, the King, the Lord Jesus. I can't imagine what that's like. You imagine what it was like to be Mary and Joseph? To be on the front row of the arrival of God's promised Lamb? To hold in your arms, to touch with your hands, to look with your eyes, and see God come down from heaven in the body of a man? I can't fathom what that must have been like. But listen, all of that is inconsequential compared to the reason he came. The purpose. What's he doing here? It's not about it it it's not about as much as I love these beautiful decorations and and enjoy uh all of the the scenery, if you will, of this time of year. It's not about the beautiful nativity sets and it's not about the trimmings and trappings, it's not about the lights. It's about the Lord and the fact that he came. So John gets right to it, and John says, let me tell you why he came. It's three things I want you to see this morning. Number one, I want you to see the incarnation. The incarnation. And then I want you to see the revelation, because that's as important as the incarnation. And then I want you to see an explanation, a very simple explanation. Would you look with me first at the incarnation? The incarnation, that's just a big word meaning to take on flesh. That's all it means. He assumed flesh. We talk about the incarnation, we sing about the incarnation. I'm talking about the fact that God became man. Here's what the Bible says: and the word was made flesh. I want you to notice the word. Who's the word? You say, preacher, who are we talking about? Well, John 1. 1 says, in the beginning was the word. So, in the very beginning, the word was. You say, who's the word? Well, let's read on. And the word was with God. So in the beginning, there's the word. In the beginning, he's with God. And notice this, and the word was God. The word is another name or title for the Lord Jesus. He's the word. And John says it like this. He says the word became flesh. That word that was with God in the beginning, that word that was God, that word, let me say it like this, is God, that word became flesh. Notice this. Not only do we see the word, but notice what he says, and was made. The word was made. Now that's a neat little phrase in Hebrew, because here's what it is. It means to be made something without changing what you presently are. He was made flesh. Well wait a minute. John 1 1 says he was God. So what's the Bible teaching me? Here's what the Bible's teaching me. This God who became flesh didn't cease to be God, though he became flesh. In other words, Jesus Christ was the most unique person who ever walked the face of this earth because he wasn't just a man, but he was God as man. He was the God man who walked among us. The word was made flesh. Now, folks, here's the wonder of all that. It's that last word in that statement. The word was made what? Let's say it again. And the word was made flesh. If there is a marvel in the Bible, you just read it. That God would become us? That God would become flesh? You say, how much flesh was he? Well, he was flesh enough to be born a little baby. He was flesh enough to be laid in a manger. He was flesh enough to have to be cared for as an infant, like all infants have to be cared for. An infant can't do anything for itself, and yet that infant, this boggles my mind, brothers and sisters, this infant was God Almighty. That when Mary looked in the eyes of that little baby lying in the manger , She was looking in the eyes of him who was there when the mud seals of the earth were laid. Who was there when the earth was formed and fashioned? Who was there? Listen, beloved, who was there When God breathed into the nostrils of Adam the breath of life, and man became a living soul. She was not looking at just a baby. She was looking into the eyes of God who had become flesh and yet still was God. It 's an amazing thing. I'm going to tell you something. It's the greatest love story recorded in all of mankind's history. Now look, religion says this is what this God requires. And some of those gods, some of these false gods, little g gods Make deep and difficult demands of their followers. Some have to travel hundreds and maybe thousands of miles to appease their God. Some have to afflict their bodies and and abuse themselves in some way and go through all sorts of of of weird and and and often difficult and harmful ritual so as to appease that God. But I'm telling you of the God, Big G God who did not make a requirement of you, but made a requirement of himself. And he said, I will become them, so that they can come to me. This God understood, listen, our God tells us that the wages of sin is death And all mankind has sinned against the holy God. And because of that, there must be a just payment made. The only payment that could be made is made by perfect sacrifice, a perfect Lamb. God prepared his people hundreds and thousands of years prior. Teaching them that it you don't give a sacrifice that has spots or blemish, that's sick or afflicted. It must be the purest thing that earth can produce. And how many of you know this? Earth's purest things are flawed. There's no perfection on this earth. And so those sacrifices could not do. They just said, There's one coming. There is something to come. There's one who will be perfect. And I'm glad to report to you that on that happy day when Jesus made his entrance into this earth, Ment through the virgin's womb and was laid in that manger, God's perfect lamb was born. God's perfect lamb would live and my friend John the Baptist would be baptized in some thirty years later, and he would see him coming and recognize instantly who he was and make these words, this declaration Behold, the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world, and mankind would have introduced to them the perfect sacrifice. For three and a half years they would examine him and inspect him, criticize, question, scrutinize, look him over. And Pilate's final verdict would be, I find no fault in this man And I'm glad to stand before you here some 2,000 years later and tell you there's still no fault in this man. You look him over, you search him. out. You study him. You find everything out you can find out and you'll come to the same conclusion. He's perfect. Solomon said it thousands of years ago. He's altogether lovely. There's no fault in this man. And he would be taken and nailed to an old rugged cross. And it would be there he would lay down his life, not have it taken away. Jesus was not a victim of murder. He wasn't just someone who had his life taken. He laid it down He said, I lay in John chapter 10. He said, I lay my life down. He put it down. He willingly went to the cross. There was no struggle at Calvary. Jesus wasn't forced by Roman guards and held under spear point and a sword to his neck to make him do what he did. He laid like a lamb led to the slaughter. Now what does that tell me? That tells me he loves me. That tells me that he loves me with an everlasting love. Here I see the Lord Jesus hanging between heaven and earth, and what is he doing? Why is he dying? Folks, more is happening here than we understand. Here on the cross, Jesus is becoming sin. Not only paying for sin, but he's becoming sin. The Bible says, Paul wrote it in 1 Corinthians, he who knew no sin became sin. He became, he became my sin. Now you think about it. This is God. We're not talking about a glorified angel. I think one of the great tragedies of this hour is a misconception of the glorious Son of God. We view him sometimes as a glorified man or a glorified angel, something just a little bigger. I've got news for you. He's God, the very God. And when he hung there suffering, bleeding, dying, pouring out his life for you and me, he was God. It was God doing that. Not listen because he had to, not because he was forced to, but simply because he loved you with an everlasting love. And said with, listen, my friend, with tender compassion, I laid down my life, so that again I might take it up again. Not only did he lay it down But thank God, on the third and happy morning, he got out of the grave. He arose. Shouted. Can you imagine what it must have been like on that first resurrection morn? When the Lord Jesus got up and shouted till I believe the foundations of hell and heaven and earth, everything shook under his authority. I am he that was dead, but behold I'm alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death, hell, and the grave. That's the Lord Jesus. That's that little baby that was born. That's the word that was made flesh. John said, skip over all of the details. Skip over All of the peripheral things, and let's get to the purpose. The word was made flesh. Number two, I want you to notice something. Here's a revelation. Now you say, preacher, what's a revelation? A revelation is something God tells you, makes known to you, that you wouldn't know if He didn't show you. It's something hidden that's made known. It's a revelation. Now, the Bible, now we have a book called Revelation, but the Bible is a revelation. The Bible makes things known that you wouldn't know except you read it right here. Folks, listen. There's a lot of people looking for truth in all sorts of places. And I'm telling you, if you've got a Bible in your hands, you've got the truth. Stop looking. Start reading. Preacher, I I I just need the Lord to show me something. I want the Lord to show me something that I've never seen before. Lord, if you'll just show me three squirrels wind up on a oak tree branch, make them flick their tails in perfect choreography. I'll know you're saying something. I'm going to tell you something. The devil can line up squirrels and make them shake their tail in perfect time. Do you hear me? You don't need, you don't need extra revelation. Preacher, I need a vision. I need a dream. Go eat you some little Caesar's pizza about midnight. Lay down about 15 minutes after. You'll have dreams and mysterious things come your way. You'll think, my, I've been communicated with from another world. No, you're just suffering the effects of bad choices and horrible food, and your body's saying, don't do me this way, or I'm going to punish you every time you do You don't need a revelation or a dream. You don't need a sign or a wonder. Do you understand that the last days are going to be so geared that the Antichrist is going to deceive by signs and wonders? You know why he's going to be able to do that? Because that's what people want. That's what people are going to be looking for. Give me a sign. Give me a wonder. Give me some extra biblical revelation. Know this, the only revelation you can trust is right here in the 66 books of your Bible. That's the revelation. Now here's the revelation. Here's what it says. And notice this dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Here's God said, I want you to know something. That when that baby was born, he dwelt, look at his dwelling. He dwelt among us. Do you know that word is the word tabernacled? It literally is the word used for that Old Testament structure that was built in the wilderness for the people to worship, and they recognize God's there. That's where God is. If you wanted to meet God, you went to the tabernacle, because that's where he was. The pillar of cloud by day and the fire by night dwelt there. That was God. God was there. And the Bible's revealing something that this baby is more than a baby. He's the tabernacle. He's the tabernacle of God. He's God living among you. Now imagine that. Just try to wrap your little head around the truth that God would come and walk among us as man. He dwelt among us, but not only do I want you to see his dwelling, but I want you to see a display. Notice, he dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. I like that word glory. Hey, by the way, it's a good word to praise God with. Glory. Amen 's good too. Glory works. Glory, what does it mean? It means majesty, excellency. I like how old Webster defined it. He said the thing belonging only to God A thing belonging only to God. You know who look, when you say glory, you're giving glory to God. When you think of glory, you're thinking only of God, because that's what belongs to him. John said, we beheld it. His glory. Now, John, how did you see his glory? How did you see this majesty? I'm reminded of what Peter wrote. Peter said we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. Now John was one of the eyewitnesses. Peter, James, and John went to the Mount of Transfiguration, and it was there Jesus did something. Uh in his ministry that he never did again and he did it only in front of those three men, that's when he showed them his deity For a minute, for a moment of time. We don't know the amount of time, but it wasn't a long period of time. But for a period of time, the humanity of Jesus was eclipsed by his deity. Now he is always God. He's always God. You say, how do you know? Because when he spoke, the devil trembled and obeyed. Member Legion? Nobody could help him. And the Lord said, Come out of it. And that man who couldn't be tamed by anything on earth was conquered by the Lord from heaven. And you see him sitting clothed in his right mind. I'm going to tell you something. There's a lot of legions in this old world today that need to hear the same command, come out of him, and be made brand new in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Here's a man got saved who was controlled by the devil. I'm convinced we're living in a world that's more and more controlled by the devil and the people in it. How else can you explain the horrendous crimes and horrific things that men are guilty of? I'll tell you why. Because there's a devil that destroys and damns. But aren't you glad there's still a Savior who delivers? Who's able to give orders, and orders must be followed? I want you to see here the display of his glory. He put it on display. Oh, there was glory to be beheld when he cast out the demons, and there was glory to be seen when he raised the dead, and there was glory when he worked various miracles. But there was no glory like the glory when he transfigured himself before these men. And John was right there and he beheld it He saw it with his own eyes. But I believe there's another glory spoke of here. I don't think he's speaking specifically of the transfiguration. I believe he's going even further. Because there was a glory revealed in the resurrection. A glory that demonstrated, hey, Jesus is everything he said he would be. He's not just a man. You take a man and kill him, you know where you're going to find him tomorrow? You're going to find him dead right where he was. I'm just trying to be plain. God forbid, but if one of one of you pass away And and and they take your remains and put them either in the ground or wherever. The truth of the matter is that's right where your your body is going to be. Because dead men don't live That is until Jesus came. And church, I want to remind you that Jesus got up out of the grave. And my friend, he who was dead is now alive. And the good news I've got to tell you is that he'll never die again. He lives eternally. Thank God he lives eternally. And that's why if you're saved, you have hope. That's why I've got hope this morning. If if if all I had was what I see in this world, son, I'd be a mess. I tell you, if all I had was what I see coming from the pike, I'd be scared to death. If all I have is what I see in Christianity as a whole, buddy, I'd just go find me a a thousand acres and build me a fort in the middle of it and get armed to the teeth and say, hold on, boy, she's gonna get bad. But this isn't all we got. We have a Savior who lives. The Lord Jesus, our Savior, is not dead, church. Now, there may be some Christians who act like it and churches who worship as if, but the reality is he lives, he lives, Christ Jesus lives today. My friend, he's as alive now as he's ever been, and one of these days he's going to split the eastern sky and call us home. And listen, if if if you and I are already in the grave, you'll resurrect our bodies and we'll be caught up to meet the Lord. in the air. Listen, I'm telling you the good news is Jesus Christ is alive and the resurrection displayed a glory that none other has. Hey Buddha's still in the ground. Muhammad's still in the ground. All of these these cults and all of these leaders of dead religion, they're dead, they're gone. They no longer live. I don't care what shrine you build or what sort of a system you put around, all you've got is bones and death. But I'm glad to tell you Jesus Christ gives life. And that more abundantly. And those of you who are saved know exactly what I'm talking about. And if you're not saved, friend, you can know today that he lives. Because he'll come live inside of you and transform your life and heart. We see the deity in this. He dwelt among us and we beheld his glory. The glory As of the only begotten of the Father. Now, Paul would later write these words. He's the express image. Hebrews 1, is it verse 3? He's the express image of his Father. He was so much his father that, you know, I said something the other day and it scared me to death. I said, that's something my daddy would say. Now I spent about fifty years of my life wanting to be different than my daddy. It's awful hard to do. It's awful hard to do. Now, every once in a while, my wife will give me a little dig and she'll say, You're sounding like JD. That's my daddy's name. And I do have a few of his tendencies and she'll say, All right, Jay, pick up Start to say, pick up your clothes, you know My father had a favorite chair and he told my mother, he said, Mom, there's no reason I'm going to use them again. It's easier to get them out of the chair than it is the closet. I say amen to that. Every man needs a chair. How many vote with me like that? Majority rules, alright? I'm getting me a chair. I may be getting me a dog house. Some of you take the preacher in if I get in trouble. But listen, I I don't know where that comes from, other than there's some of him in me. And I'll never be able to get away from that because there's some of me in him. And I'm here to tell you Jesus said to Philip, Philip said, show us the Father, and it sufficeth us. And Jesus said to him, Philip, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. There's do you know something? The Bible says all the fullness of the Godhead dwells in him bodily. There's not just some of the Father of Him, the Father's in Him. You say, preacher, I can't get my head around it. I can't either, but I'll tell you what it does. It fills my heart with adoration that there's such a God in heaven that would love me enough To say I want to communicate something to you, and the only way I can do it is to become like you so that you'll see who I am, so I can make a way for you to get where I'll be. Thank God for Jesus. Thank God for Jesus. Notice with me now quickly the explanation. Notice what he says, full of grace and truth. Now I'm not going to take out of the Bible. Please don't accuse me of that. But I want you to read this without the parentheses, because the parentheses are an inserted thought. They don't go along with what's being stated here. They're a part of it, but read it without the parentheses. And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, full of grace and truth. Do you see that? How did he dwell among us? Full of grace and truth. Look at the measure here. He's full. Do you know what that word full means? It means complete and lacking nothing. I say this with the utmost respect, but Jesus is the total package. There's nothing missing in him. That's why that's why you can come to God through him and be saved. You don't need to be a Baptist, you don't need to be a Methodist, you don't need to be a Presbyterian You don't need to be anything else other than a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you can be born again. He's full. He's complete. And do you know what he's done for you? The old song says it, complete in thee. No work of mine can take, dear Lord, the place of thine. Listen, he's made you complete. Friend, listen, stop trying to help him do what you couldn't do, start with. Rest in the finished work of Jesus Christ. You're not saved, nor are you kept by your efforts or performance. You're saved by grace through faith in the Lord Jesus. The finished work of Calvary paid the sin debt in full And when it comes time to make the crossing, you'll not do it with one or of your own in the water. You'll do it only by the full grace of God. Carried in His strong arms on His great sacrifice. We see the measure. He's full. And then there's a message here. What's he full of? He's full of grace. Full of grace. By the way, religion distorts truth. Let me be specific. Roman Catholicism distorts truth. Al, you know what I'm about to say. Hail Mary Full of grace? Mary's not full of grace. Mary said, I'm a sinner. I rejoice in my Savior. And last time I checked, the only person who needed to be saved are sinners. You know who's full of grace? Jesus is. He's full of grace. Complete in grace. In fact, all the grace you'll ever need, you'll find it in Him. There's no other place to find it. There's no other place to look. You'll not find it by lighting ten candles. You'll not find it by jumping in the waters of baptism or being sprinkled on the forehead or going through any other religious ritual. There's no grace in the Lord's table. Next Sunday morning we're going to come to the Lord's table. And remember the death of the Lord Jesus. There's no grace in that. There's no grace in that. You don't get grace because you take communion, as we call it, or come to the Lord's table You know where you find grace? You find it in Jesus. He's the great reservoir of grace. He's full of grace. Friend, if you need grace, every sinner needs grace. One thing I can look every one of you right fair in your eyeball and say is this you need grace. I don't care how young, how old, how bad, how far, wherever, whoever, whatever, you need grace. But I'm glad to report to you, you'll find it in Jesus. You won't find it in Marinatha. You won't find it in all our ritual, but you'll find it in him. He's full of grace. And then he's full of truth. Notice that. These are the means. This is the means by which God brings grace. Can I just point something out as I try to wind this thing up? Truth is not a platform. Truth's a person. Truth is a person. John 14, 6, Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. If you want to know the truth about something, consult Jesus about it. He'll either tell you a principle, he'll give you a promise, or he'll show you a practice. And all of it's true. All of it's true. Oh, friend, he's full of grace and truth. So John says, I want you to look at the birth of Christ from this perspective. He came on purpose. His incarnation and the revelation of himself was for this explanation that you might be partakers of grace and truth. That grace and truth might come your way. And make the You know, the Lord tells me the truth I don't like to hear. Do you understand that there's truth that doesn't make me feel good or comfortable? Jesus said, except you repent, you shall all likewise perish. He said, there's a hell. He taught, he talked and taught about a place called hell. And he said, I want you to know every lost man, woman, boy, girl Every person who's not saved is going to end up in that place called eternity, and in eternity, he's going to be in a place called hell My friend, he describes the awful suffering and anguish of a place called hell. Why did he speak so freely of it? I'll tell you why. Because he's got eyes that behold it. He sees it in its reality. Understand with me this morning that the Lord Jesus warned of a hell to shun, but he told of a heaven we could gain. And he gave no shortcuts. He said, there's only one way. I'm the way. Jesus is the way. Folks, hear me out this morning. The birth of Christ is all about a way being made. There's a way. Oh, it's a strange way. Come by way of a manger. Through the life of a basically unknown man in the world that paid little attention. ended its first phase on an old rugged cross with the shedding of blood and the suffering for sin. It was taken up again on the third day when he arose. And my friend, listen, the way that is made is not through the religion of man, but with a relationship with the living Lord Jesus Christ. Who saves to the uttermost all who come to God by Him? That's the purpose of Christ's birth. That's the reason that He came. And what a tragedy it would be to celebrate all of this and miss the reason. Isn't it tragic to be caught up in something you don't know what's going on? We were. On vacation and we were in this town and they were having a car show and we didn't know it. And I came in off of a side street and I thought, man, there's some pretty cars around here. One's in front of me, one's behind me. And here we are driving our minivan. We're right in the middle of it and I just hit a deer down the road and the front end was all tore up and I was trying to find a place to pull over and at least make sure I could go a little further. And so we got deer hair everywhere, and I try not to be too graphic, but man, we were a gnarly looking ride. And we're riding down the road, and all these people are Pointing and some are clapping. There's people behind us people. I'm like, man, this is embarrassing. Maybe they see the deer. Where are we at the deer? I don't know what's going on. You know? And my wife, with her great wisdom, said, just smile and wave. Just smile and wave. I guess when it when you don't know what's going on, best thing to do is just smile and wave. A lot of people today, and you know what they're doing? Oh, they're singing their Christmas songs and they're buying presents and they're they're smiling and they're waving and they don't have a clue. And if that's you, my precious friend, you're among people that love you, and I want you to know the reason. I want you to understand that this is not about a season or just a celebration. It's about a person. A person who loved you enough to leave heaven's glory, to suffer earth's shame, to die on the cross and pay the sin debt in full. and to rise again to give you eternal life. And my friend, listen, he'll save you right where you are if you'll simply cry out to him. And my friend, listen, know this that no pleas for mercy from the Lord are ignored by his gracious hand. He saves everybody who will come to him by faith. Will you trust him today? See, we're all leaving here. It's just a matter of when. It's not a matter of if. And then the big question, where will I be? I'll tell you where you'll be. You'll be right where You're supposed to be as to your dealings with Jesus. A. B. Simpson said it like this. He said, be wise in how we or what we do with Jesus. Because one day he said that he wrote a whole hymn about it. He said, one day we'll be asking. What will Jesus do with me? In this same chapter, I read it and I'm done. Verse 11 says, He came unto his own, and his own received him not. That's one response. They rejected him. Is that you? They received him not. They said no. We'll not have this man rule over us. They said he's not our Messiah, he's not our King, and they rejected the Lord Jesus and turned into an eternity in hell. That's what happens to every person who rejects Christ. Look at the next verse, verse twelve. But as many as received him. Watch what he did. To them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. When you receive him, when you take him by faith, he makes you his child Maybe somebody's sitting here saying, Preacher, I can't be a Christian. I can't live up to the Christian standard. I can't do all the things that I know a Christian should do. Well, get in the line with everybody else. Because notice it says, to them gave he power. The only way you get power is you receive him. The only way you live the Christian life is you become a Christian by receiving Jesus Christ. He fixes that problem. And he'll make you his child. Do you need to be saved today? I wouldn't wait another minute. You need to be saved, friend. Your soul hangs in the balance. And can I say, dear brother, sister, please, please. Don't let all the trappings of tradition take your mind off of what it's all about. The purpose of his coming. Oh, he came to make a way. Well, the choir said it best. Born to die on Calvary. Born to die. That's what it's all about. That's the reason I've got hope. Jesus died and was buried and rose again. And my hope this morning is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. What's your hope built on today? You hanging on, hoping you'll be good enough, hoping you'll let go. Just put all, cast that stuff aside. Lay hold of Jesus Christ By faith be born again. He'll save you. That's the good news. Dear Christian, don't forget, that's what it's all about. Don't forget. God help us not to. Lord help us not to get so caught up in all the celebrating. We forget what we're celebrating about. Christ was born. Praise his wonderful name. One day we're going to see his glory too. John said we beheld it. One day you'll see it too. Then, face to face. What a day that's going to be, dear Christian. Let's stay true to him until that day comes. Would you stand with me, please, Brother David?