Amen. He is the fairest of ten thousand. He's the lily of every man's valley He's uncomprehendable. It's invincible. He's all in all. The Son of God became the Son of Man, so Son of Man could become sons of God. He was so much man that he cried at Lazarus' grave, but he's so much God he couldn't walk away without raising from the dead. He's so much man that he got tired and had to fall asleep in the boat, but he's so much God when he woke up he calmed the storm. He's so much man that he felt what we feel, but he's so much God he could do something about it. He's so much man that one day he died, but he's so much God that he couldn't stay dead. He's still alive, he's still on the throne, and that was free. Turn to Isaiah chapter 61. Isaiah chapter 61 and verse 1 My prayer is that you see the Lord and hear from him and that you can put my personality and all my dumminess aside. I told a couple brothers here before church started, told them I hope they had their M1611 with them. That good black M sixteen eleven. You can carry this thing through the trenches of Sand , it won't get wet and jam up and misfire. This thing will keep on shooting. And keep on shooting and keep on shooting. You can carry it till the war's over. But Isaiah chapter 61 and verse 1. Isaiah 61 and verse 1. Pray for me, please, that the Lord would be seen. That this place would be filled with his Spirit I want any any pride behind this pulpit. Just put me aside. Let God speak to you, please. I ask you to do that. Isaiah chapter 61 and verse number one. The Bible says, The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. Because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek. He hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted. to proclaim liberty to the captives and the opening of the prison to them that are bound. To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord, and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all that mourn, to appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness. That they might be called trees of righteousness, the planning of the Lord, that he might be glorified. That he might be glorified. Let's bow our heads and pray and we'll get into the word. Please, Lord, we ask you that you would just fill this place with your presence, Lord. We ask that you'd bless your word. Lord, we have the promise that it won't return void. I pray that, Lord, that no one here would see or hear, listen to me, Lord, that they would see you and that you would just do your work unhindered. Lord, that's all we ask Lord, I pray that you would just hide me behind the cross, Lord. I pray that you would let every heart in here that you would do what they need, whether it needs to be broken, whether it needs to be healed, whether it needs to be helped Lord, if someone's in here that's close to hell and needs to be saved, let them see that, Jesus, you're all in all. Lord, that you're Savior, Friend, God, you're the forgiver. Lord, you're that one that'll keep their soul for eternity Lord, I pray that you'd just do your work. Lord, I pray that you'd be welcome here. I pray that you wouldn't come by this church and get a cold shoulder. I pray that you'd be welcome. Lord, that you could walk in and start to do your work. Lord, we love you and thank you. Help me to love you more and help us to praise you here tonight. It's in your precious three times holy name, Lord Jesus. Amen. Isaiah 61, verses 1 through 3, we just read. And it says, the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me because the Lord hath anointed me. The Spirit of the Lord God. Something has been on my heart a lot here recently and I had several ideas I wanted to tie together, but it just wasn't coming together. And my brother-in-law, that's weird to say, my brother-in-law sent me a verse today, and it was this verse, Isaiah 61, 1. And it really just tied everything together. I'd like to preach tonight on the presence of the Lord. Now maybe you didn't get that from these verses, and that's okay. Spirit of God can work in whatever way he needs to touch you with. When I read this, all I could see was something that's been on my heart, and that's the presence of God. The presence of God. This quote here says to stand in the presence of God, that's what the gospel is It's not primarily about forgiveness. It's not really about good feelings or power. All those things are byproducts. The gospel is about the presence of God. With the presence of God is forgiveness of sin. Presence of God, we can only be in the presence of God when our sin 's taken care of. Because God's holy, he can have no part with sin. It's because of the Lord Jesus we can attain presence with God. The presence of God. I saved several quotes here that I liked also. This one says the most holy An important practice in the spiritual life is the presence of God. That is every moment to take great pleasure that God is with you This one says by Lawrence, the most holy and necessary practice in our spiritual life is the presence of God. That means finding constant pleasure in his divine company, speaking humbly and lovingly with him in all seasons at every moment, without limiting the conversation in any way. Here Rick Warren says God doesn't owe us an explanation for everything, and actually what I found is that explanations don't comfort. What comforts is the presence of God, not the explanation of God. Now I don't endorse any of these men, because I don't know a lot about any of them. What they said here is true. See a believer longs after God and to come into his presence. Longs after God and to come into his presence. I'd say here tonight, and I hope you agree that we need the presence of the Lord. If anything we need, it's the presence of the Lord. A lot of times we come to church for the sole purpose of coming to church. I know a lot of times I've walked into church and getting into the presence of the Lord, honestly, and to my shame has been the last thing on my mind. And if any of you are here are honest, I'd hope you'd say the same thing. If not, that's okay. I'll get to where you are someday. But see, we need the presence of God. I wonder if the reason we don't see souls being saved a lot like we used to years ago, even when I was a kid, I remember it seems like we've seen people saved a lot more. It seemed like God worked a lot more, even as a kid. Even that's not long ago. That's really not. It seems like a long time ago, but it's really not. That was what. Well some of you still thinking I am a kid. Probably am. When I was a younger kid A younger kid, it seemed like people got saved a lot more. It seemed like it wasn't so uncommon to see somebody get up in the middle of a message brokenhearted and come to the altar and get things right with God. What's missing? What happened I think somewhere along the way we figured out how to play church really good. We figured out how to come to church, check it off the list, say our prayer and never really pray. read our Bibles and never really read our Bibles or let the Bible read us. I know I'm guilty of that. I can read a chapter Walk away two seconds later. What did I just read? What did I just read? We'll go through all the motions so easy without the goal of getting to the presence of God. getting to the presence of God. I'm thankful that there is the promise that when we draw nigh to the Lord, he'll draw nigh unto us. When we give him time, he'll give us the time of day. But we need the presence of the Lord. I believe it's the presence of the Lord that changes everything It changes everything. We're gonna look here tonight. I won't preach long. Somebody already asked me not to be long-winded. John. I won't be. I won't be. But I want to talk about the presence of the Lord. The presence of the Lord. First of all, I see the presence of the Lord produces change. The presence of the Lord produces change. We see here Because of the Lord hath known me to preach good tidings unto the meek, sent me to bide the brokenhearted, proclaim liberty to the captives. opening of the prisons to them that are bound and on and on and on. I see a whole lot of change. A whole lot of change. You can't be in the presence of the Lord and stay the same. We look at Moses in the Old Testament. He was in the presence of the Lord. He came down, his face was shining. It was visible. Hey, it'll be visible when we've been in the presence of the Lord. People around us will say there's something different about that fella. There's something weird about him. He's been somewhere we haven't been, talking to people we haven't been talking to, talking to somebody that maybe they don't know. The Lord. Presence of the Lord changes things. Presence of the Lord produces change. It'll change situations. Presence of the Lord can change attitudes. It can change our position. It changes everything. The presence of the Lord changes everything. I believe the presence of the Lord changes a regular old church service. How many times have we come in? And expected it to be just another service. And by the way, that's not the preacher's fault. That's not the singer's fault. That's not the crowd's fault. It's all of us. Will we come in here to hear the Lord? If you've come in here to hear the Lord, you can hear him and be in his presence, and maybe the person beside you won't be That's up to the individual. If I want to be in the presence of the Lord, that's up to me. That's not up to the preacher, not up to the singer, because it's not a performance. Singers can get up here and twist your emotions and do this and hit that note and hit this note. Piano can play a minor key that can make you feel warm and fuzzy and shed a tear. People do it out in the world every day. People do it all the time. It's just emotions. That's how we're made. Speaker can get up and he can speak. motivational things and quotes and tell a story about little Timmy that almost died and made it. And here we end up crying and feel like, oh that was wonderful. It's not the presence of the Lord. Preacher isn't manipulating a crowd. He doesn't have to have a good personality to do this or that. I don't have a good personality. Singers, they don't have to be perfect. I've seen a lot of people that don't sing really great, but I'd love to hear them over anyone else because they just have the presence of the Lord with them. They prepare, get ready, and come up with the right heart and they just want to sing because that's what in their heart to do for the Lord. That's what I'm after. I've heard a lot of preachers that weren't great preachers, but they come up with the Spirit of the Lord on them and they preached for the Lord. And it was the best service you'd ever been in. Why? What's the difference? The presence of the Lord. I believe people would get saved if we come in here and just have the presence of the Lord. Now I don't mean something spooky or mystical that falls down and the fog comes on us , everybody's laughing and happy. I'm not talking nothing crazy like that, but I'm talking about being aware of the presence of the Lord. Everything clean between my soul and the Lord and Him being able to speak and being able to do a work. Even with the Holy Spirit, we know that we don't lose it, get it, lose it and get it. We have it from the moment we're saved. But are we always aware of it? No Are we always letting him work and take control? No. We always feel him? No. But the presence of the Lord produces change. Our church service would be completely different if we had the presence of the Lord. Our day-to-day life, my day-to-day life would be different if I had the presence of the Lord. I say for a fact, there's been days that have been different, those days that I've had the presence of the Lord. I'd like to see that a whole lot more often A whole lot more often. I hope you have it every day and I hope to get there. I hope to get there. I know there's a lot of days I go through today that you just don't feel like you got the presence of the Lord. My mind has been other places. You can pray for me. But the presence of the Lord. I need that. I want that. I hope you do. I hope you do. I want to see people come in that need Jesus and get saved I want to see lives get changed. I want to see my co-workers go to heaven with me. That's all I want. Just want them to go to heaven with me. I don't want this world to end and never see my friends again. Do you want the presence of God? We need Jesus. We just need him. We need the presence of the Lord. It produces change. Presence of the Lord proclaims the truth. It proclaims the truth. See, God's word was preached. You look here. It says that he's come to preach good tidings unto the meek. Verse 2, proclaim the acceptable year. And it says, proclaim again here, proclaim liberty to the captives. What does the presence of the Lord do? It proclaims truth. When we have the presence of the Lord, it'll produce change. When we have the presence of the Lord, truth will be proclaimed. When the presence of God is on this place and on your life, God's word and God's truth will have a high, high position in our life. God 's presence produces a proclaiming of truth. God's word will be preached. Who God is will be appreciated. Who God is will be appreciated. Music will be filled with truth and love. You hear a lot of the Christian music coming out today. If you really listen, you'll notice a trend. It's all about the individual. Contemporary gospel music, 99. 9 % of it is about the individual. It's about the heartache I'm feeling. It's about the trial I'm going through. It's about what I've had to face. What's happened to music that left me out of it and just talked about who God is? Not even who God is to me, but just who God is. Just who God is. When we have the presence of God, our music will be just about who He is. It'll be filled with truth. It'll be filled with God's word. It'll be filled with truth. The presence of the Lord produces change. Presence of the Lord proclaims the truth. The presence of the Lord, look at this, number three, purifies the believer. It purifies. Presence of the Lord purifies. Sin cannot live and thrive in the presence of God. Why do you think we are separated and born separated from the Lord? Sin. We're born with the sin nature. We got our birthday present from the devil We're born in sin, so we're born separated from God. That's why we need to be born again. We need to be have that spiritual birth. Because our sin separates us from God. I know this is elementary, but we have God here, and I'm here, and sin 's in the way. And I can't get to him because God can have nothing to do with sin. The presence of God means that sin can't live there. Sin can't live there. Now, does that mean when I'm in the presence of the Lord I'm sinless? I won't be sinless until I'm physically in the presence of the Lord. Physically in the presence of the Lord. But when I'm in the presence of the Lord spiritually in my day-to-day life, sin will diminish. It'll diminish. It can't live and thrive and grow in the presence of the Lord. You can't serve two masters, the Bible says. We're either serving God or we're serving mammon. Sin can't live in the presence of the Lord. In the presence of the Lord, it purifies the believer. Holiness and an attitude of gratitude abounds. An attitude of gratitude abounds. When you're in the presence of the Lord, I've found that I've been more thankful than ever for just what the Lord has done for me and who the Lord is. Just who he is. Just being in his presence, thankful for who he is. You think about it, he's everything. He's everything. This is not just a dead religion. I hope this isn't just a dead religion to you. I hope that you're sitting there and thinking of the Lord as you would be thinking of a friend. It's the Lord. Do you know him? Do you know who we're talking about? The presence of the Lord. Now I've gone through spells where I haven't felt the presence of the Lord for a long time. And you feel like the Lord isn't even there. Heard a preacher he was going through one of those stages. He couldn't feel the presence of the Lord. And we know that Feelings really don't mean a lot of anything, because you know you're saved. Some days you don't feel like it, but you know you are based on the Word of God. But he said he couldn't feel the presence of God, couldn't see God working. Couldn't even really understand or see if God was even still there. He called his mom on the phone and just brokenhearted poured this out to her. She said, you know It's when you can't feel God that God may be doing his most work. Said when you can feel the presence of God, it don't really require a whole lot of faith. Said, you don't really grow there. You just enjoy it there. Said, when you don't feel the presence of God, you have to work off a hundred percent faith. Said you're just growing. It's okay Just growing. But we need the presence of God. We need the presence of God. Holiness comes from the presence of God. Attitude of gratitude comes from the presence of God. I hope that You're not sitting there thinking that I've got this all figured out. No. No. No, no, no, no, no. No. I'm preaching this because my heart's burdened, because I want the presence of God. I'll admit to you, there's a lot of days that I don't have the presence of God. You know why? Because I haven't given God the time of day. Maybe you don't have that problem. I do. I do But I need the presence of God. I need the presence of God. Seeing God's presence, we not only realize who God is, but we realize who we are. I don't think you can be proud and cocky and just be a jerk after you've been in the presence of God. What's there to be proud about? You'll treat everybody different if you've been in the presence of God. You'll look at everybody in a different way when you've been in the presence of God. I guarantee you this, you won't hate nobody. You won't hold a grudge You won't get upset over things if you've been in the presence of God. The presence of God, it produces change, proclaims the truth. Purifies the believer. It puts life into perspective. Presence of God puts life into perspective. What does the song say? The things of this world will grow strangely dim in the light of his glory and grace. When we've been in the presence of God, it puts things into perspective. I don't know about you, but you may be like me and get wound up over stuff. Maybe that's I don't know if that's an expression that you've heard If you've been around me or my dad, you've heard that get wound up over something, get upset, up tight, blood pressure goes high. You start mumbling things and want to say things, but you keep it to yourself, get wound up. You can get wound up over something. I don't know about you, but I've been wound up over stuff. You get in the truck, slam the door, turn the radio on, turn it up. You turn it up too loud and it hurts your ears, you turn it off, you turn it back on, it'll be a preacher. or a song, and it'll just smite your heart. It feels like God just snuck in that truck door and sat down beside you. Says, what about that? We get wound up over stuff. The presence of God puts things into perspective. Big things to us get awful small in the presence of God. The presence of God and just who he is becomes the most important thing. Becomes the most He becomes the most important thing. By the way, when we're in the presence of God, we'll be able to do work for God. That's actually the first step. You can't work for God until you've been in the presence of God. What they tell them there believe in Acts says or at the Yeah, I believe Zach said, wait until you're endued with power from on high. He said, wait. Don't go out and start witnessing and start trying to do start a church and start doing the work for the Lord right now. He says, wait, because you can't do that without me. Wait. We have to have the presence of God if we're going to be effective. Have you ever tried to witness without the power of God? I have. That's the most awkward and embarrassing thing you've ever done You know you're supposed to, and you're trying to witness, and you just can't gather your thoughts and it just seems so unaffective. It's like what's wrong with that? Presence of God wasn't there Presence of God, but you weren't prayed up and ready. You weren't in the right spirit to witness. But when you're in the presence of God, you don't even really have to go searching. He'll bring stuff to you. He'll bring things to you. There's been days actually is believe two years ago during camp meeting. Either two years ago or a year ago. Um Preacher Danny Jack preached on that that passage where he said, wait to your you the power from on high. And that convicted me. 'Cause I've been trying to witness in my own power without being in the presence of God. I spent that night praying that He would let me have the power and strength from Him and be right with Him and have His presence. And then that next day at work, every single customer that come in, without anything, they'd they'd be starting a conversation almost like they're asking me to witness to them. And it was amazing. I went to him that night said, it's amazing. That's what the Lord does when you just let Him take control, get in His presence first. So many times we try to work, we have no power to do it, because we haven't completed the first step. That's get in his presence. Get his power, get his wisdom, get his mind, get his heart. Just worship him, then we're ready to go work. Then we're ready to work. Puts life into perspective Along with that, the presence of God places the correct priorities. It places correct priorities. What's important to the Lord will all of a sudden become important to me and you When we're in the presence of God, what's important to him will be important to me. What he thinks is number one will be number one to me. What he wants me to do will be what I want to do When we're in the presence of the Lord. The presence of the Lord. I told you I wouldn't be long tonight. But lastly, I want to see the presence of the Lord points to Jesus. The presence of the Lord points to Jesus. You know the Holy Spirit never speaks of himself. Never speaks of himself. That's why everybody's scared of the Holy Spirit. Well, the Holy Spirit, when it's all about the Holy Spirit, that's wrong. But the Holy Spirit, when it just points you back to Jesus, that's the that's the right road. The presence of the Lord points to Jesus. Turn to Luke chapter 4 and verse 14. Luke chapter 4 and verse 14. I read that passage in Isaiah. This looks familiar. So that kind of sounds like somebody I know. Luke chapter 4, verse 14. And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee. And there went a fame of him throughout all the region about, and he taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all. And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up, and as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and stood up for to read. There was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Isaiah. And when he opened the book, he found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, to preach the acceptable year of the Lord And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister, and sat down, and the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him. Would to God we come to church and all of our eyes would be fastened on him. And he began to say unto them, This day, this scripture is fulfilled in your ears. Is this scripture fulfilled in your ears? You know what he did? He got up, he read Isaiah, he closed the book, he sat down, he said, fellas, that's all about me. That's me. Isaiah was talking about me. I love when the road to Emmaus, those two that were walking, they were down, brokenhearted. Their Savior had just been crucified. Jesus come up to them. He's walking with him. It says that he started at the law and the prophets and he preached to them. You know what they saw by the end all that? It was all about him. This whole book is about him. This whole book is about him. See, the presence of God, the Spirit of God, points to Jesus All of this is who Jesus is. He is the fulfillment of the prophecy. He's the fulfillment of the prophecy. He's the most lofty one. He's what we're all about. He's what we're all about. See, I love this quote here. It says, You can practice Islam Never met Muhammad. You can be a Buddhist and have never seen Buddha. You can be a Mormon, never shook hands with Joseph Smith. You can be a false Jehovah's Witness, never met Taz Russell. You can be a Christian scientist and be neither a Christian nor scientist. You can be a Catholic and never gone to Rome and seen the Pope. But can I tell you, you cannot be a Christian? And unless you've had a head-on collision and conversation with the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. See, there's none like him. There's nothing like a Christian. You know what Christian is? Christ in you and me. It's all about him. This isn't, that's the number one thing when you witness to people now that they don't understand. When they hear church, they think of the Catholic Church. When you say church, they think of the other dead religions. They don't understand. I had one co-worker thought that I was crazy, that I could talk to God at any time. He came up, he had Catholic upbringing, he'd come to me, he says, so how many prayers do you have memorized? I said, none of them. He looked at me like I was the heathen It's like I had to explain to him. He never did get it. I don't think he ever did get it, but I pray that that the witness Some point in his life will come back. Don't know where he is. He quit and left and all that. But we had this conversation, I bet, twenty times, that I could just talk to the Lord Jesus like I was talking to him. He came up one day, I was on the forklift, and he asked about it again. I said, Kenny, guess what? I was just talking to him. That blows their mind. We're not living in a dead religion. He's alive. He's alive. He's alive. You say, how do you know? Talk to him today. I'm part of the family. I would know. I would have got the invitation to the funeral if he was dead. Part of the family. He's alive. He's still alive. Guess what? He isn't gonna die. He already did that once and he beat it. He beat it. He's got he took the sting out of death. He took bumblebee can't hurt you if you take the stinger out. It's just a whole lot of noise. A whole lot of noise and buzzing and all that. This is free, but you know what you call a redneck bumblebee? It's a bubba flea. You take the sting out. Take that stinger out. It's just a whole lot of noise. Jesus took the stinger out of death. He has the keys, death, hell, and the grave. Ralph Sexton used to say the devil's the only booger in business that don't even have his own keys to the shop. He's alive. It's all about him. It's all about him. It's all about Jesus. It's all about him. We already said that this this book here is about him. says in in Genesis, Jesus Christ is the seed of woman. In Exodus, he's the Passover lamb. In Leviticus, he's our high priest. In number He's the pillar of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night. In Deuteronomy, he's the prophet like unto Moses. In Joshua, he's the captain of our salvation. In Judges, he's our judge and lawgiver. In Ruth, he's our kinsman redeemer. In 1st and 2nd Samuel, he's our trusted prophet. In Kings and Chronicles, he's our reigning king. In Ezra, he's the rebuilder of the broken-down walls of human life. In Esther, he's our Mordecai. In Job, he's the ever-living Redeemer. In Psalms, he's our shepherd. In Proverbs and Ecclesiastes, he's our wisdom. In the Song of Solomon, he's the loving bridegroom. In Isaiah, he's the Prince of Peace. In Jeremiah, he's the righteous branch. In Lamentations, he's the weeping prophet. In Ezekiel, he's the wonderful four-faced man. In Daniel, he's the fourth man in life's fiery furnace In Hosea, he's the faithful husband, forever married to the backslider. In Joel, he's the baptizer with the Holy Ghost and fire. In Amos, he's our burden bearer. In Obadiah, he's the mighty to save. In Jonah, he's our great foreign missionary. In Micah, he's the messenger of beautiful feet. In Nahum, he's the avenger of God's elect In Habakkuk, he's God's evangelist, crying, Revive thy work in the midst of the years. In Zephaniah, he's our Savior. In Hagi, he's the restorer of God's lost heritage. In Zechariah, he's the fountain opened up in the house of David for sin and uncleanliness. In Malachi, he's the son of righteousness, rising with healing in his wings. In Matthew, he's king of the Jews. In Mark, he's the servant. In Luke, he's the Son of Man, feeling what you feel In John, he's the Son of God. In Acts, he's the Savior of the world. In Romans, he's the righteousness of God. In Corinthians, He's the rock that followed Israel. In Galatians, he's the redeemer from the curse of the law. In Ephesians, he's the head of the church. In Philippians, he's all sufficient Christ. In Colossians, he's the fullness of God, for it pleased him that in him should all the fullness of the Godhead dwell. In First Thessalonians, he's the Lord coming down from heaven. In Second Thessalonians, he's the judge coming with blazing fire. In First Timothy, he's our mediator between God and man. In 2 Timothy, he's the master. In Titus, he's the blessed hope. In Philemon, he's the one who paid our debt. Amen. In Hebrews, he's our great high priest. In James, he's the judge standing at the door. In first Peter, he's the chief shepherd. In second Peter, he's the morning star. In 1 John, he's the word of life. In 2 John, he's the Son of the Father. In 3 John, he's the truth. In Jude, he's the Lord coming with countless thousands of the saints. In Revelation, he's king and king and lord of lords. You cut this Bible anywhere. It'll bleed the blood of the Lord Jesus. You open this book up anywhere and you'll see him. It's a love letter from God Himself. To every believer, calling every lost person, saying, I love you, I want to know you, I want you to be in my presence. It's all about the presence of God, and it's all about Jesus. It's all about Jesus. The presence of God will give us a fresh view, fresh love, and a fresh fervency for the Lord Jesus If you're here tonight and you don't know him, I highly recommend them. Highly recommend them. He's a cure-all for what ails you. It's the Lord Jesus. He came to this earth, lived a perfect life Died a death for sin he didn't have. He died a death of sin that you and I committed, died with it, rose again, offers the free gift of salvation to whosoever will come. God so loved the world and gave his only begotten Son. Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. In Acts, it says he calls all men to repent, turn from sin, and turn to Him. The Bible says the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Have you called out to him? Have you accepted him? Do you know who we're talking about? Do you know him personally? Has he forgiven your sin? If he's not, you can do that tonight. You can know him tonight And what the presence of God will do in your life. I want his presence back. I want his presence back. Do you? I hope so. I hope so. If you need to pray, come forward here to the altar. I'm just gonna ask Andy Bishop if he'll stand up and pray for us. While he's praying, if you need to come pray, just come pray. Don't need any music, nothing like that. If you need to pray, you can just come pray. I'm gonna ask Andy if he'll just stand up and pray for us