I'm going to read just a few verses there and then ask you to go over to 1 Corinthians chapter number 1. And I'll read two verses there. John chapter 19 and 1 Corinthians chapter number 1. When you find your place in John, would you stand with me, please, and we'll honor the reading of God's Word? In John chapter nineteen, verse number sixteen, the Bible says, Then delivered he him, therefore. unto them to be crucified. And they took Jesus and led him away. And he bearing his cross went forth into a place called the place of a skull which is called in the Hebrew Golgotha, where they crucified him and two other with him, on either side one, and Jesus in the midst Would you look at those two little words in verse 17? His cross and he bearing his cross. Heavenly Father, I pray you'd help us now this morning. As Lord, we think about and focus on the most important thing that has ever happened. When Jesus bore his cross. Dear Lord, settle our hearts and fix our minds on things above. Lord, for a few minutes, separate us from the cares of life, the distractions, and all the things that would keep us from hearing you. And Lord, would you speak to our hearts? And Father, we'll give you the glory for what you do, for our eyes are upon you. We're trusting in you. We're waiting upon you. We love you and praise you and thank you, Lord, for your mercy towards us. We pray in Jesus' powerful name in God's people, sin. Man, you can be seated. I want you to flip over now quickly to 1 Corinthians chapter number 1, and let me read two verses there. First Corinthians chapter one, verse seventeen and eighteen. The Bible says, for Christ Sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with the wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us which are saved it is the power of God. The Bible says in John's Gospel that Jesus bore his cross. Now, the cross the Lord Jesus carried was not any different. Than any other cross that had been carried thousands of times to the place of death. Many people died on a cross. It was a Roman instrument of torture and death It's a common way to treat criminals in that day. Thousands of people were nailed on crosses And uh archaeology has supported that and reveals the truth that so many people in that day for offenses, for breaking the law, were nailed to a cross and crucified. But our Bible turns the spotlight on this cross. The Bible, for a very important reason, magnifies the fact that Jesus bore his cross. Now there are two others, it says with him. There were three men that were crucified that we know about on this day, one on one side of Jesus, another on the other, and Jesus in the middle. And both of these men were dying for offenses that they had committed. These men were criminals. They said by their own words, And it's recorded in the Gospels that these men had broken the law. They had uh had transgressed Roman law, and because of that, they had to die. And yet here's a man who's dying on a cross that's so much different than anyone else who had ever died. The man dying here on the middle cross was not a man like every other man He was not a man that was unlike any other. He he was the very Son of God. And I want you to notice this again that his cross. Now you say, Well, preacher, what's so important about his cross? If thousands have died, if multitudes have died in the same What made the difference about this cross? Well, there's one thing. It's not so much the instrument that was used to bring him to death. It was the man that was doing the dying. The one who died here was not dying for the offenses he had committed. In fact, the Bible makes it clear, Pilate said these words after examining him and judging him. I find no fault in him. He said, I can't find any reason to put him to death. I can't find any reason that he should die. Yet, my friend, he died. The Bible tells us over in 1 Corinthians chapter number 1 the reason. And the reason is that God conveyed the message through the cross. The message, there's a message in the cross. The cross was communicating something. By the way, everything God does, he's saying something. God's communicating. He's saying something. And we find that he's communicating here through the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, well, what is he communicating? Can I say just a couple of things by way of introduction? Number one, he's communicating the gospel. 1 Corinthians chapter 15 tells us that Christ died for our sins. And he was buried, and he rose again the third day. Do you realize that the gospel message is the message of the cross of Jesus Christ? You cannot preach the gospel without preaching the cross. To preach the gospel is to preach that Christ died for our sin. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day. That is the gospel message. I remember a gentleman visiting one time from Ireland And he said, I have been to churches in several countries, and he said the thing that bothers me most is that there's very little preaching of the gospel. You stop and think about it. We hear a lot about the Bible, and we should. There's great truths in the Bible. But central to the message of the Bible is the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. When God first communicated to man in the garden after he sinned, his message was, I'm sending a seed. I'm going to send a deliverer. There's somebody going to come. And he's going to have his uh heel bruised, but he's going to crush the serpent's head. And starting at that point and moving forward, your whole Bible is focused on on either preparing for or the preaching of or the pointing to the cross of Jesus Christ It is central to the Word of God. Do you realize all of those Old Testament things that are hard sometimes to understand? Somebody was telling me they had gotten in their Bible reading To the book of Numbers. And I said, Hold on, it gets better. Don't stop there. Just keep pushing through. Some of that you just have to read and just keep moving. But understand this, that in the middle of all of that, those offerings and those sacrifices, do you realize that all of them in some way or another points to Jesus Christ and his cross They all prepare our hearts to understand, like John did when he first saw Jesus when he came to the banks of the Jordan River, and he said these words: Behold the Lamb of God. What a rich, what a rich statement he made there because he's bringing together, he's culminating All of the prophecy of thousands of years and focus in the spotlight on one individual And when we come to the cross, we come to the place where the spotlight of heaven shines on one man, and that man is Jesus Christ. Not only is the gospel message found in the cross. But it is a life-changing message. In First Corinthians chapter 1, verse 18, the Bible says the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But unto us which are saved it is the power of God. You say, What do you mean by that? I mean this message changes lives. And if you're saved, you know how it changed yours. I'm not preaching a church. I'm not preaching uh religious exercise. I'm preaching the reality that when Christ died for my sin and was buried and rose again and became my savior, it was a life-changing moment. Now I realize not everything that says I'm Christian is Christian. In fact, we're so messed up in the day we live in, I believe half folks believe the devil's saved. And uh he could get by by being a Christian by the common definition of Christianity in our day. But I'm talking about real true blue Christianity that makes a new person out of the individual who repents and puts their faith in Jesus Christ. You can't deny that Jesus changes lives. And if you don't know anybody, my friend, let me say to you, I feel sorry for you, because the one thing that that pricked my heart as a young man that m I wanted to be skeptical. I wanted to be critical. I wanted to be cynical But there were just too many people that I could not explain what happened to them. My dad being one of them. My dad that was a drunk and he didn't take care of his family, that is, until God saved him. And when God saved him, it made him a man. He wasn't what he was. He he became something he'd never been, and it and and he didn't go off anywhere and go through twelve steps. He he wasn't put away somewhere in an institution. He was in an old prayer meeting, a cottage prayer meeting. set up uh uh by my mother for the very purpose of trying to reach him and he couldn't get away from what God was doing and God saved him and changed his life forever. Now some of you sitting here, God's done that for you. And you know that the message of the cross is the power of God unto salvation. My friend, listen, that message changed your life. Well, what is the message? What is the message? You know, we talk about things we do not understand And I think sometimes we sit in church and we hear it and we know all about it and we don't know a thing about it. You ever met anybody like that? They know something about everything, but they don't know anything. And I mean you talk to them, they can tell you a little bit about I mean they know the words, they know the they know they know things, they know about things, they've been around things, and they but and they can talk, but listen, do they really know? Do they really know And I don't want to be that way. I don't want our church to be I don't want you to be that way. I want you to really know what is the message of the cross You see, it's more than just a piece of jewelry, it's more than just a piece of religious regalia. It is a a message that God is communicating for time and eternity. What did God say on the cross? Let me say this. Number one, God said that a sacrifice has been provided A sacrifice has been provided. You say, why is that important? Well, if you'll note this, sin demands a sacrifice. And no matter what you believe or think about sin, you have to understand that sin demands a sacrifice. Why is it that individuals that don't know the Bible or anything about God naturally offer something so as to appease this God they know they've offended. You go to the most remote place imaginable and you'll find peoples That will make sacrifices. They may sacrifice fruit, they may sacrifice animals. In olden days, they've even sacrificed their own children. And what were they doing? Trying to appease God. You see, the very conscience of man knows that sin demands a sacrifice. When man sinned in the garden, in Genesis chapter 3, God made coats of skins and clothed them. Now you know how he did that? Over a sacrifice. Something had to die. A coat of skin doesn't come unless an animal, an innocent animal, dies. And that innocent animal, which I believe was a lamb, But it died, and a coat was made so that Adam and Eve could be covered. Their sin demanded it. Scriptures declare it. If you'll study your Bible, you'll find out. Psalm 50 verse 5 says, Gather my saints together unto me Those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice. Do you realize that all of God's dealings must be over a sacrifice? God doesn't deal with man unless he d has a sacrifice over which to deal with. You say why? Because we're sinners and he's holy. He's a holy God. In fact, he's so holy that he cannot look upon sin, and so to approach God, man must come over a sacrifice. Isaiah chapter 1 says, Come now, let us reason together. Can I say something to you? God can't reason with you or reason with me except it be over a sacrifice. There's got to be a sacrifice over which we reason together. My friend, the scriptures declare it, starting way back yonder in Genesis and going all the way through, every lamb that was slain, every goat that lost its life. Every bull that shed its blood, every single sacrifice pointed to the fact that man must come to God over the terms of a sacrifice. And then the Savior, and this is my favorite part of this truth, the Savior delivered it. He delivered the sacrifice. Hebrews chapter ten, verse twelve says that this man, this man After he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God. Do you know what he did? One sacrifice. You say, What did he do? Read Hebrews ten. He didn't bring the blood of bulls, he didn't bring the the the blood of lambs, he brought his own blood. He brought his own blood. He was the sacrifice. And that one sacrifice made a way for all men to come to God. The cross bears a message. When you look at that cross, when you look at that cross, you know we've sort of softened the blow of it. Artistically, we see pictures of Jesus and he's dripping a drop here and maybe a little stream of blood there. But the reality is Isaiah said he didn't even look like a man. He was so marred. His visage, his appearance was so marred. You see the cross was a brutal thing, and the cross was a bloody thing. But I oh my friend, the cross was a blessed thing. Because it is in the cross of Jesus Christ a sacrifice has been made and now I can come to God over that sacrifice. I'm so grateful I don't have to raise a lamb to to I don't have to raise some sacrifice and I don't listen, dear friend, I don't have to have uh some religious authority figure, make a sacrifice on my behalf, or approach God. He's made one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus And every one of you can deal with God, man to God, individual to God. You can go to him through Jesus Christ. He's the sacrifice for sin. You know what the cross says? The cross says a sacrifice has been provided. But I believe it don't stop there. There's so much more. The cross also says this. Sin has been put away. Sin has been put away. You think about this. Why did he die? What brought about this? Well, when you think about sin, you've got to think first about its presence The psalmist David said, Behold, I was shapen in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Do you realize man's born in sin? We're born with sin within. Those of you that have raised children You know this. You don't teach them to sin. Let me do a survey. How many mothers, daddies, how many of you had a class on how to sin with your children? Did you do that? You didn't sit them down and say, now l uh you know, l let me tell you how to lie. I'm I'm I'm gonna tell you, you don't know how to do that because you don't have a sin nature. So I'm gonna tell you how to how to tell a lie. Do you have to do that? Maybe you raised angels. I had to teach mine to tell the truth. And sometimes those little rascals were so slippery that they they sold me something I thought was the truth that ended up not being the truth, and I ferried I had to find out the truth and find out they were telling me a lie You know why? Because that's in your nature. You're born that way. You're born in sin. Everybody sitting here, born in sin. This man standing here, I was born in sin. Sin was born in me. The Bible says that our sin, this original sin, came from Adam. When Adam sinned, Romans chapter 5, it tells me that sin uh entered into the world. It came through Adam and by Adam passed on to us. And death by sin. And and all of us now, here's what the Bible concludes, we're all under sin. And every single one of us are condemned by it, and the Bible says all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Now I tell you what we do, and be careful about this. This is a Danger. We live in a day where we don't call sin anymore. Well, I messed up. You know what we ought to say? I sinned. I sinned. I broke God's law. Folks listen, when when men sin , they're breaking the law of God. I don't care what the law of the land says, and we've got such a messed up world. that the law of the land don't even uh bear a resemblance to the law of God. But it it doesn't matter whether it's in accordance with the law of the land. What's the what's what really matters is what does God think about it, and if God labels it sin, it's sin. And now we're here we are, we're all in the same boat. Somebody said we're all in the same boat and she's sinking fast. Well the reality is Is that we are all born in sin. And by the way, you know that you and I, personally I get honest. Now, that's hard to do sometimes, but if you'll get honest, you'll admit you're a sinner. I've sinned against God. Your conduct convicts you about it. Convicts you. I remember being a little boy and Went to school and we were gonna do a math problem with a bunch of marshmallows. And I don't know what got in me that day. I probably didn't get a good breakfast. I shouldn't say that. My I never left the house without a good breakfast. But but anyway, that teacher put all them marshmallows out there and I happened to be up close to her desk. I used to think it's because my teachers liked me. Then I realized why they put you close to the teacher's desk. Anyway, that took me a few years. But I was sitting right there and there sat those marshmallows and I thought, you know what? Wouldn't one of those be good? Now how many knows you can't eat just one marshmallow? I mean that's like potato chips. You just don't eat one. Give me a chip. Come on. You gotta eat a bag or two or three. It depends on what time of day it is. But the reality is, man, before I knew it, I eat the whole thing. And the teacher came in the room, she said, Where'd those marshmallows go? Now ignorantly I said, Mm-hmm. And my jaws are pumped out like a little rabbit, you know. And uh you know what? My conduct condemned me. I went to school when they wore you out for stuff like that. We had a Methodist preacher who was our principal in a public school, Mr. Warren. He's related to our family. She said, Why don't you go see Mr. Warren? And I went up to Mr. Warren's office, he called home and said, told him what I did and said, uh, I'm getting ready to give him a paddling and you come get him and take him home. And I thought, the whole world's against me. I'm gonna get beat here and beat home. I mean I'm gonna get it when I get home. And uh man I'll never forget my conduct condemned me. I knew I'd done wrong. I mean I I I didn't rob a bank, but I took something that wasn't mine. I stole, I broke the law of God. The Bible makes it clear that's a sin. And I had con listen, my conduct, but you know what else was bothering me? My conscience. My conscience was bothering me. You know why? I broke the law of God. Now, friend, listen, our conduct and our conscience both will condemn us. And we can alter those and get those hardened to where they don't bother us like they once did. But if we'll listen in the in the darkness and the quietness of our heart, we'll know I'm a sinner. But the Holy Ghost will also do that He'll point it out to you and often he does with such clarity and authority that it's it's it's it's earth shaking. I mean we realize, hey, I had sinned. I remember when God saved me, I understood for the first time that I was lost, that my mother couldn't save me And my dad couldn't save me, and my preacher, my church, none of that. I had to be saved. I was a sinner. I was lost and separated from God. Sin's presence. But you know something, there's also a power in sin. In Romans chapter 5, we read that because sin entered into the world, death passed upon all men. And sin brings a universal death and separation from God and judgment. My friend, listen, sin has entered into this old world. And because sin has entered into this old world, it is appointed unto men once to die. You stop and think about that. The greatest testimony we have, or one of the most visible testimonies that we have, to the authority of the Word of God, is the graveyards that dock this countryside. Every time you see a graveyard, you see the testament of the scriptures that the wages of sin is death. You understand that man was not made to die, God made him to live forever. God so engineered and created man that he was a being that was intended to live forever, but when man sinned, he violated the law of God and death entered into the human race, and now all men die. It's appointed unto men once to die. We all die because of sin? See, sin is a powerful thing, but let me give you some good news here just a minute The Bible tells me over here, I want to read it, I don't want to quote it and mess it up. In Hebrews chapter number nine, that sin has been put away. You say, what does that mean? That means removed, erased, obliterated, no longer exist as. Listen, Hebrews chapter 9, verse 26. For then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world, but now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself Do you realize what he did? When Jesus died, he blotted out sin 's record. When Jesus died, he took away the handwriting of ordinances that was against us. My friend, listen, all the sin that had accumulated through all of the ages, Jesus put it on the other edge of the ledger, paid in Fool. And he paid you say, Preacher, what about me? He paid your sin debt. Dear friend, he paid your sin debt. And you say, But I'm still under condemnation I still feel the weight of my sin. I'm still held by the wicked hand of sin. I still walk in the ways of sin My friend, when you come to God by faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, He takes the condemnation away. The Bible says there's therefore now no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. Oh, listen, friend, there's a place for sin. Sin to be put away. It's not up here in a baptismal pool. There's a lot of people get in there and they're they're they're dry sinners, they get baptized and they're just wet sinners. They're just as dirty and rotten and lost as they were before they ever got in. You don't find it by lighting candles and rubbing beads or bowing your knees and praying prayers. You know how your sin gets put away? When you put faith in the person of Jesus Christ. You trust in the one who can remove the record. And listen, you're justified when you get saved by grace. It's not that he just covers it up, he takes it away as if it never was. Thank God for salvation like that. Now you might be sitting here saying, preacher, that's too good to be true. Well, I'd believe that too if it wasn't in the Bible, but it's in God's Word. And that tells me it's true. Jesus put our sin away. The Bible says he put it away by his blood. Hebrews 9. 22, and almost all things are by the law purged with blood. And without shedding of blood is no remission. Makes it clear, doesn't it? Verse 12 Neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works for the living God? I'm telling you, friend, the blood of Christ is so powerful that it not only cleans the action of sin. But it cleans it cleanses the conscience of sin and puts that sin away. He purges your conscience. I heard a psychiatrist say this. He said, you know something, I could cure probably 90% of my patients if I could convince them that they are forgiven. If I could just convince them, you're forgiven. Whatever awful thing it is you've done, whatever awful thing it is you've participated in. He said, if I could, this wasn't a saved man, this was just a psychologist was making a statement that he believed if he could convince his patients that they were forgiven, that he could cure them. Well, I'm glad there's a Bible that'll convince me I'm forgiven. I'm glad there's blood that cleanses me so deep that I'm aware of the fact that I'm forgiven. Now I'll tell you, God saved me when I was a little boy. But but the reality is, I knew something was different. There was a load I was under called sin. And I hadn't carried it long, but I'd carried it long enough to get tired of it. And I remember when we were riding home, Daddy had an old Dodge pickup, had one of those extended cabs, one of them first ones, them ugly ones, about fifty foot long This thing was green and I was sitting on the toolbox. That was why it had a seat back there, but he had so much junk back there you had to sell on the toolbox. And I remember sitting on the toolbox as riding home and I couldn't help but cry And I don't know, I I was I was trying to hide it because you know uh I always heard if if you're crying, I'm gonna give you something to cry about, you know. So I didn't want nobody to see that, didn't want to get a reason to cry And uh dad got out to get gas, uh pump gas in the old thing, and uh mom turned around and she said, You alright? And it was all I could do to tell her. And all I could say is I got saved. I got saved. Now listen to me. I'm not saying that I have confidence in my uh my tears that I shed I'm not saying I know I'm saved because I shed tears. I I'm not saying that I know I'm saved because it was an emotional time. But I'll tell you this, I knew in my soul I knew in my soul I didn't carry what I was carrying. I knew there was a weight gone. I knew the condemnation had been removed. I knew, listen, that that that load had been lifted and I had been saved. And my friend, that's real. That's not a pie-in-the-sky thing. That's a real thing. And if you don't know anything about it, let me urge you today, trust the Lord Jesus Christ and find out He can take the load of your sin away I don't care how big it is, how heavy it is. Oh, you say I've lived a long time in a wicked life. He specializes in saving folk like you Here's a man dying right next to him. He's been a criminal his whole life. His very last deed is a deed of death, my friend. Listen, he he's he's he knows he's dying. He knows he's in trouble. And and he says, Lord, remember me? And our Lord said very graciously to him, Today shalt thou be with me in paradise. The mercy of God saved a man like him in the very last moment of time. There is no sinner so lost, no sin so dirty, no person so hopeless that the Lord can't save them. And that's you, friend. That's including you. He'll save you. He put sin away. He put sin away. But then I want you to notice this, last of all. I want you to see the message of the cross. Is that salvation is in a person. That's the message of the cross. Salvation's in a person. See, that is specified in the Bible The Bible says there's no other name given among men whereby we must be saved. There's only one name. It's specified in the Bible. It's spelled out. It's a singular name. In John 14:6, Jesus said, I am the way, the truth. And no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Friend, there's not ten ways to heaven, there's one way to heaven, and that way is the Lord Jesus Christ. I remember hearing a preacher said he was on the radio and he was preaching and he said that there's only one way to heaven. And if you want to if you want to know how many people listen, just be controversial and they'll let you know. And uh a lady met him in the post office. She heard him talking to the attendant, and the attendant uh she she picked up on that voice and and that lady said, Excuse me, sir, are you on the uh local radio station? He said, Yes. And she said, Well, you made a statement the other day I didn't like. And he said, Well, I'm sorry, ma'am, would you tell me what that is? And she said, Well, you said that Jesus is the only way to heaven. And he said, uh, well that's what the Bible says. I just said what the Bible says. And she said, Well, I I want you to know that offends me. She said, Do you not know that there are many ways to heaven? She said, Let me prove that And uh he said, Well, go right ahead. She said, Well, how did you come to the post office today? And he said, Well, I came up, you know, he named the street and went over here and turned and came out to the post office. She said, Well I came an entirely different way. She said I bet if we asked several different people that we would find out that there are multiple ways for them to get to the post office. And boy she's feeling proud of herself. She thought she'd put the preacher in his place And he said, Well ma'am, here's the problem. You're talking about the post office, and I'm talking about heaven. You may get to the post office ten ways, but you won't get to heaven ten ways. There's only one way, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. My friend, it's in a person. Salvation is in a person. That's the message of the of the cross of Jesus Christ. The Bible says in Hebrews 9 24, Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands which are the figures of the true. But into heaven itself now to appear in the presence of God for us. Do you realize he's appearing in the presence of God for us? You know why I'm saved here today? Not because I'm a preacher. Not because I belong to a Baptist church. Not because I even prayed a prayer. You know why I'm saved today? Because there's somebody in heaven representing me. There's somebody in heaven representing me. He's in the presence of God for me. I'm redeemed through him. My confidence is in him. My hope is in him. What he did has has affected me. It's been imputed unto me for righteousness. He's in the presence of God for me And let me just simply close with this statement. It's simple. It's simple. You know we're a weird lot. Simple things work, but we don't like it simple. Most people don't. You know, have you ever thought about when you sit down it's tax time, isn't it? I hate to throw a damper on the meeting. But have you ever just looked at a tax form and thought, you could ask me about eight questions and this would be done? I did my taxes last week. Lady said, You want me to print the whole thing? I said, No, just do me a summary. Well, the summary was eight pages. And I said, wonder what the whole thing is. Well I I got to look at it. It was about sixteen, eighteen pages long. The whole thing. You know why we complicate things. We complicate things. And I don't know w quite what it is, but the reality is sometimes we complicate this thing of salvation. We make it what God never intended it to be. You say it is it simple? It's as simple a little child can believe and be saved. That's how simple it is. Salvation is not a complicated thing. I didn't say it was a cheap thing. And I didn't say it was an easy thing, because my friend, it cost the Son of God his own blood. But it is very simple. It's this simple Jesus defined it. This is life eternal. That they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. In 1 John 5 12, he makes it even more clear. He that hath the Son hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. That's simple. I can't state it any more clear. It is as simple as you either have the son, if you have the sun, you have life. If you don't have the sun, you don't have life Doesn't have nothing to do with where you go to church, doesn't have nothing to do with who you are as a person, doesn't have nothing to do with all these external things we tack on to it. You either have him or you don't have him You're either you're either believing on the Lord Jesus Christ or you've rejected the Lord Jesus Christ. You're either trusting in him. Listen, you know when it comes time to die, it's not time to be complicated. When it comes time to die, I remember my pastor's wife came to visit my mom as she was leaving this world and And she said, you know, my mom said to her, she said, I'm having a hard time praying. She was very sick and struggling. And I remember something she said to her. She said, Carol, she said, there's no reason. There's no reason for you to worry about praying now. She said, you've done your praying. You just rest. Isn't it good when it comes time? You you y y you don't have to you don't have to have somebody there praying over your dying body You don't have to have some beads laying on your chest to rub and hope you get in. My friend, you just rest in the arms of the mighty crucified one. Who died in your place and shed his blood and rose again and will carry you home to glory when this thing's over. Rest in him. That's the message of the cross. It's simple. Salvation's in Jesus. I like this little thing. It says, life is short. Death is sure. Send the cause, but cross the cure. There's a cure. And if you're here lost, it's not God's fault. You hear me? It's not God's fault. If you're not going to heaven, if you're lost in your sin. And you're looking at an eternity in hell, it's not God's fault, and it's not there's nobody else you can point the finger to and say it's his fault or her fault. You know what you gotta do? Look in the mirror and say it's me. It's my sin. My sins separated me. My sins got me in trouble. But oh, my friend, at any moment of time that you're willing to come to Christ. Oh, if you'll but trust him, if you'll but hear his tender call, you know what he's saying? He's saying, Come unto me, all ye that labor and heavy laden, and I'll give you rest Some of you've tried to find it in a liquor bottle and that thing's left you broken and messed up, but I'm telling you you can find it in the Lord Jesus Christ. You've tried to find it in a church and you've gone from church to church to church and you're still as confused and mixed up. I'm here to tell you you're not going to find salvation in a church. You're only going to find it in Christ Jesus, the blessed Lord. Oh my friend, be saved today before it's eternally too late. You know what the cross says? The cross says there's hope. The cross bears a message, the gap's been bridged. Hey, there's a chasm between you and God. I I don't know who I heard singing But the kids are preparing for next week and I heard a song. I heard them. They were singing somewhere under my office this morning and singing loud enough that they were lifting the tiles But you know what they were singing? They were singing this song. He came to me. When I could not come to where he was, he came to me. He came looking for me. He made a way for me. Hey friend, he reached down into the slime pit of sin. That's what the cross is about. He got a hold of you. He lifted you up. Where's that other hand? That other hand's up heavenward. He's got the hand of the Father. And the Lord Jesus took the hand of the sinner and the hand of the Father, and he brought the two together. And reconciled me to God. He's the only one that can do it. Thank God He did. Now, friend, are you saved this morning? Are you trusting in Do you have the Son of God? If you have the Son of God, you have life. If you don't have the Son of God, you don't have life. And you need to be saved, and you can be. You can be. The cross says you can be. There's a way. You may have a profession, I junk that thing, because if that's all you got, you don't have much Be like my father-in-law told me one time I was driving a Dodge pickup. He said, Well, you got transportation, but you don't have much. I disagreed, but that's how he felt If you don't have Jesus, you don't have much. You just don't have you don't have anything. The reality is you need Christ. Do you have him? The Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. It's not in the posture of your body, and it's not in the words you pray. It's in the person that you trust. That's where salvation's found. It's in Him. Dear saved friend, brother, sister. Are you telling others the message? Folks, this is the only thing that's going to straighten us out. There's a lot of things we can be talking about, but the reality is this is what will help us. This is what your coworkers need, and this is what your family, this is what your friends. This is what our nation needs. They need to hear the message of the cross. That Christ died for sin. He was buried. He rose again the third day. He'll save you today. Don't leave here lost. Don't leave here lost. I pray God if listen, I pray to God if you do. That you'll be miserable and lost. That the Spirit of God will do His work and show you there's no hope, there's no peace, there's no joy. There's nothing outside of Jesus Christ. What a happy day. Happy day. You know the old song? Happy day, happy day, when Jesus washed my sin away. I I I still think of Brother Homer. He was he was a World War II vet and old Homer, he was in our home church, just a wee little man, but every bit of him was excited about the Lord. And we would sing that song, Oh Happy Day. And he'd get up, and you knew he was going to get up. He did it the whole my whole lifetime. And he would say, Pastor, and the preacher would just drop his head. Homer's talking again. Pastor, I didn't get saved the daytime. I got saved at night. And he'd say, Let me sing my version. Oh happy night, happy night, when Jesus made my black heart white. Man, he had a whole song and he would sing About how the Lord washed and made him clean. And I'm here to tell you, friend, night or day, it does not matter. The Lord Jesus will save your lost soul. Cry out to him. Cry out to him. Would you stand with me please? Brother Dow, please come to their hymn.