This evening. And may the Lord help us to do as that song says and arise. But I appreciate that encouragement and then You know, I appreciate the um song that we were singing. Uh Oh, that will be glory for me. And I love the song and the truth of the song. But one of the great blessings of that song is that it brings back just a special memory. Uh Perry Rockwood had a radio program uh years ago, and uh he was and still is to my knowledge on just about um every secular radio station across Canada. They passed a law sometime back that all of the religious things should be removed to particular stations, but because he had been on the radio for so long, they grandfathered him in And so rock and roll stations, country stations, all kinds of stations, uh all the time you'll every once in a while you'll hear that Oh that will be glory for me. And then Brother Rockwood will come on. Marinatha, friends. This is Brother Rockwood from Halifax, Nova Scotia. And uh he began to preach the word of God. And uh it's already been glory for him, because he's already seen the Lord face to face and The truth is that day's coming for us all, who are saved by the grace of God. And so we are grateful for that hope that we have. Well, I feel burdened tonight to revisit the text from this morning. And so I want you to go with me to Micah chapter number 6 and verse number 8. Micah chapter 6 and verse number 8. And perhaps this would be a verse that you will commit to memory in the coming year and ask the Lord to help you. We taught our King's Kids group this verse a long time ago. And maybe if if some of my crew can remember the actions, we'll do it. We had a little thing we did with it so that we would remember it. And uh one thing that stands out is the O man. Remember that? They're not going to answer me because they don't want to participate. But uh, O man, he hath showed thee, O man, what is good. Anyway, Micah chapter six, verse number eight, he hath showed thee, O man, what is good. And what doth the Lord require of thee but to do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God? Would you look at that last statement, those five words, walk humbly with thy God. And if I could just briefly review what we looked at this morning in regards to walking with God. I tried to give you a definition, and using the Bible to do that, we went to John chapter number 15. And in John chapter number 15, Jesus said, Abide in me and I in you. Now that little word abide means to uh abide, rather, means to dwell in or to live in. And so uh what we are to do as a people of God, if we are to walk humbly with the Lord, We must abide in Christ. We must live in Christ. And he talked about the vine and the branch. And he talked about how that the branch cannot bear fruit of itself except it abide in the vine. And so a part of abiding in the vine as a believer means that we stay in union and communion with the Lord Jesus. We're drawing our life from him. In fact, we're drawing everything from him because without him, here's what he said in John 15 and verse number 4, without me ye can do nothing. And so we looked at the definition. Then we tried to examine a demonstration. In the Old Testament, we went back to the life of a man named Enoch. And the Bible says that Enoch walked with God. And the greatest thing that we know, and the only thing we really know about Enoch, is that he walked with God. Now, the joy of this thing, and the beauty of this thing is, is that anybody can walk with God who's saved You know, there's a lot of things we, you know, we can't do. Somebody says, well, uh, there may be a lady who says, I want to be a pastor. Well, I'm sorry, ma'am. According to the word of God, you cannot be a pastor. The Bible does it makes it very clear that He's reserved that office and and and that's that's God's business. That's not our business, that's just what the Bible teaches. But you say, well, preacher, I'm restricted from that and this and the other. But hey, you're not restricted from walking with God. Every person, every person who's saved, young, old, rich, poor, intelligent, otherwise, it does not matter if you are saved by God's grace, you can walk with God. And Enoch did that. Enoch walked with God. He walked by faith, and he diligently, the Bible says, search for the Lord. He walked with God. And then we looked at a determination, and that determination involved a purpose in his heart. He purposed in his heart. I believe that when Methuselah was born, God communicated something to Enoch. He had a message for Enoch and he said, Judgment is coming. And that little boy bore the name of of Methuselah so that when he s his name said, When he dies or when his end comes The judgment will fall. And so here is a young man that God was was using. Obviously, the birth of that young man was used of God. And God was communicating something to Enoch and God said, Enoch, when he dies, when this boy dies, uh that there's going to come a judgment. And the Bible says from the moment of his birth Until Enoch was translated, he walked with God. Three hundred years. He were he walked with God. Now, tonight I want to give you uh not a definition or a demonstration or a determination. But I want to slow down a little bit and give you a detailed explanation. You say, what do you mean? I'm going to give you one-word statements that explain more clearly how to walk with God. And they all they're all words that'll come right out of the Bible. I'm glad the Bible tells me everything important I need to know. Peter said that he has given unto us exceeding great and precious promises. Now, whereby we may be partakers of the divine nature. having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. In other words, this Bible will communicate the life of God to my soul. God will take his word and communicate his life into my person so that I can have a living, thriving, vibrant relationship with the Lord. It's not a matter of just simply ticking off the box and saying I've done this, that, and the other. It's a matter of walking with the God who walks with you day by day. And I hope you know the joy of that, or we'll come to know the joy of that in the days to come. Now, I want us to pray and we'll begin looking at some of these explanations, these detailed explanations on how to walk with God. Father, again, we just want to bow our heads and thank you for the privilege to call on you in prayer. I want to thank you for the mercy that you've shown us. I want to thank you for the grace and goodness you've demonstrated to us. And Father, we thank you for the great hope you've put in us. Lord, we're grateful that, yes, that will be glory for me Lord, when we look upon your face, Lord, we thank you that from the moment of salvation you've put a longing in our hearts for heaven. We thank you for the work of grace. We thank you for the goodness of God. I thank you for this privilege now to pray and then Lord preach the word and I beg you to help me. Hide me behind the cross. Help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus Lord, would you please just give us what we need individually, collectively, and may your will be done, and we'll praise you for all that you do, for we ask it in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. Well, I want you to take your Bibles and go back to the book of Genesis with me, please. Genesis chapter number 18. And I'm going to give you our first word. And that word is the word meeting. The word meeting. M-E-E-T-I-N-G. Meeting Thank God that in the Word of God there there was such a meeting that will help us understand what it is to walk with God. Genesis uh actually it's chapter 19. Genesis chapter 19 And verse number 27. Look at the word of God. And Abraham got up early in the morning. To the place where he stood before the Lord. We're just going to stop there. The place where he stood before the Lord. From just simple inference, we find that that Abraham had a practice of standing before the Lord. What does that mean? That means you had a meeting with God. That means that every morning Abraham met with the Lord. There was a place that Abraham would go, and the Bible says that he would go early. in the morning and he would meet with the Lord there. It was there that he would hear the voice of God. It was there that he would worship the Lord. It was there that he would simply meet with God Now this was the most important meeting of his day. By the way, if you meet with God, that's the most important meeting of your day. Would you look at a couple of psalms that that address this same issue? Psalm Psalm number five will be our first Psalm. Psalm number five. And I believe it is verse number three, Psalm number five, and verse number three. The psalmist David said this. My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O Lord. In the morning will I direct my prayer unto thee and will look up. David said, Lord, I'm going to meet with you, and I'm going to be there looking up at you in the morning. Then notice this, Genesis, or excuse me, Genesis, Psalm 63. Psalm 63 in verse number one. The 63rd Psalm and the first verse says, O God, thou art my God. Early will I seek thee. My soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land where no water is. Notice, early will I seek thee. Someone has said, as goes the morning, so goes the day. There's a lot of truth to that. The manner in which you start your day will determine a lot of the manner in which you'll carry out your day. And so if if we're going to walk with God, we've got to have a meeting. And I'm going to say this morning is the best time to meet with the Lord. Now you say, preacher, I'm not a morning person. Well, uh maybe a a little bit of discipline and a little bit of of setting clocks and doing all of that will help us at least get to the place where we meet with God in the morning. Church, if I'm going to walk with God, I must meet with Him. Now you say, preacher, I read my Bible every morning, I pray, but can I ask you a question? Do you deliberately meet with the Lord? It's a different thing to go through your Christian rituals than it is to just simply say, God, I'm coming to meet with you. I want to hear you. I want to meet with you. This isn't just some dead exercise that I'm going through. Look, you can come to church and not go to church. We all know that We know that we can sit on a pew but never worship the Savior who's walking among us. We can come into a building and gather with the people of God, open the Word of God, sing hymns about the Lord. and yet not realize that we are in the presence of the Lord Jesus who loved us and gave himself for us. We can easily elapse into dead formalism. It it can happen in your devotional life, it can happen in our worship. And it becomes just simply a matter of going through the motions. You know I I I've told you this story, but I I was amazed when I was a little boy. We'd go over to the Cherokee Indian Reservation and they had these uh they had these little cages like and it had a glass front on it and you put a quarter in. And it would drop some feed, and out of this cage, out of in the back, would come this chicken, and he'd walk over there and he would play the piano and he would play a tune and then he would eat his corn. And he would do it so fast, I mean he did it all the time. Every tourist come by, put a quarter in, he'd come out, he'd play, he played Happy Birthday, actually is what he'd play. And he could play a s a line, a happy birthday, on that little piano, and then he'd turn around and go back after he eats corn. And listen, that that he he couldn't you you put up uh uh some some musical piece in front of him and he couldn't play it for nothing. He had learned the routine. He had learned to go through the motion. And church, I'm saying that we ought to guard, safeguard your heart from just going through the routines. Don't just go through the routine of reading your Bible, the routine of praying your prayers. Some of our prayers are so stale and musty that we've prayed the same thing for fifty years and said it in the same way, the same words, the same manner, and it has absolutely no meaning. That doesn't mean that we don't may may use the same phraseology, but it ought to come from a passionate heart. In fact, Jesus warned us that when we pray not to use vain repetition. That we're not to just simply repeat words, you know, like some would do. Now we get we get upset and we get aggravated, but folks who would take what they call the Lord's Prayer, what we call the model prayer, and they would repeat it by rope. They do it every service. They do it every time they gather. We'd say, no, that's wrong, you shouldn't pray like that. But how many times do we pray the same old thing in the same old language in the same old way, and it have absolutely no meaning? There's no difference And so what we're seeing here is that Abraham in the morning he had a meeting with God. And you know, in those meetings with God, sometimes the Lord will encourage you. Sometimes in the meetings with God, he will convict you. He'll correct you about something. Sometimes in those meetings with God The Lord will just have something very specific that he'll deal with in your life. But here's what's important. If we're going to walk humbly with God, we must have a meeting with God. Now, brother, sister, do you have those meetings? Don't answer me, but answer in your heart before the Lord. Do you have a meeting with God daily? Is there a time and a place that you gather with the Lord and that you open your Bible and say, Lord, speak, and you meet with God? You're there to meet with the Lord. Be a very important meeting. In fact, it's the most important meeting of the day. You see, no amount of attendance in church and no amount of doing all the spiritual things that we are taught to do can ever make up for a meeting with God. If you miss that meeting, you miss what you need the most. It's the refilling station for your spiritual life. It's where you're renewed. What did Isaiah say in Isaiah chapter 40 and verse 31? But they that wait upon the Lord That means to stand before the Lord, to be ready to hear from the Lord, but they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not grow weird, they shall walk and not faint. Hey, they that you know what that is? That's meeting with the Lord. Now look, we live in a busy day, but don't get so busy you don't have time to meet with God. When I first started pastoring, I pastored a little church that sat on the best fishing creek in Haywood County, North Carolina. And they stocked it regular. And the good thing about it was my office had a great big window where I could look out and see the truck when it pulled up and threw the fish in. But a buddy of mine in that church, he also had an office. He built log homes, and his office overlooked the upper end of the creek, so he'd see them stalking up there first before they ever got down there. And I'll never forget one day he walked in, he said, preacher, you got your pole? I said, I always have my pole in the truck. But uh he said, well let's go fishing a minute. I said, Freeman, I don't have time to go fishing. And I'll never forget, he was a much older man than me, and he said, preacher. He said, a man that's too busy to fish is too busy. Fix it, he said. I said, but Freeman, all I got's my suit. I got my dress clothes on. I had just been to the hospital. I had a necktie on, and uh I said, that's all I got to wear. He said, What's wrong with that? He said, You'll look right respectable when you catch a big fish. And then he and I went out there and we went fishing. And uh we both got our limit in that one hole up behind the church. Well, you know a lot of times we can say, Lord, I'm just too busy. I've got to get to work. Or Lord, I, and I understand you better go to work on time if you're a Christian. And I understand that we've got all these pressing matters that are coming down on us. But dear friend, there is nothing more important in your schedule than meeting consistently with the Lord. You are the one who misses out when you don't meet with the Lord, not him. You are the one who is lacking when you don't meet with the Lord. It is your heart that gets cold. It is your life that loses power. It is your person that loses its testimony when we don't meet with the Lord. Old church, have a meeting with God. Purpose in your heart by the grace of God to meet with him every day. Make 2026 a year where every day you meet with the Lord. Every day there's a meeting in his presence. There's a meeting where you're able to say, I stood before the Lord today. Let me give you another word. And this is found over in 1 Samuel. And I want you to go there with me, please. 1 Samuel chapter number 3. And I'm only going to read one verse here. There's many others in this chapter that apply here, but I just want to read verse number 10. 1 Samuel chapter 3 And verse number 10. I'm talking about a detailed explanation of what it means to walk humbly with God. First, it's meeting. It's meeting with the Lord. But I want you to note this next word. The next word, it's listening. Listening. First Samuel chapter 3 and verse number 10, look what the Bible says. And the Lord came and stood and called as at other times. Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speak, for thy servant heareth. There's the word heareth What are we doing? Listen, if I'm walking with the got with God, it means and I'm meeting with God, it means I'm listening to the Lord. I'm listening. How many of you know you can hear and not listen? Ever done that? Mm-hmm. And about a half a dozen men just got their ribs poked. You're hearing, but you don't listen. Are you listening? Has anyone ever said that to you? Are you listening to me? Are you listening? I know you're hearing me, but are you listening? And you know there's a difference. Samuel was hearing, but he didn't know what he was hearing. Samuel was hearing a voice, and he didn't know who he was hearing. He thought it was Eli. Samuel was hearing something, but it was only when he realized it was the Lord and he began to listen that he got a message from God. Listen, the Lord has something to say to you. Hearing what the Lord says is not an ear problem, it's a heart problem. It's not a matter of bad ears if I don't hear the Lord, it's a matter of a bad heart. Sometimes we don't hear the Lord because our hearts not right with the Lord. Oh, listen, uh I'm telling you, friend. Uh when when you and I are keen on something, when we are in tune and we are are are diligently concerned, we will hear the still small voice of the Lord. There will be a listening. Hey, all of you mothers, all of you dear ladies who are mothers, you know something about, you you know the voice of your child And you often can hear it in a whole room full of noise. Your child. I mean, I was always amazed they'd be ten children saying Mama, but Elizabeth could pick out her two. She knew their voice. And didn't Jesus say, My sheep hear my voice? His sheep know. We know the voice of God. You're saved. You know when he's speaking to you You know that voice. But listen, if we're not careful, our hearts will get calloused and cold, and we'll not hear. We might hear, but we're not listening. In Revelation, actually two chapters, two and three, this statement is made that each church, he that hath an ear, let can hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. Now God is speaking. You say, preacher, how does he speak? And by the way, listen, he does not speak in audible tone. You say, how do you know that? Well, Hebrews chapter number one. In times past he speak through visions and dreams and etc. But now he speaks through his son and he speaks by his word. That's how the Lord speaks. You say, preacher, I had this dream and I know God's talking to me. Uh-uh Uh now look, I'm I'm not trying to uh to to be foolish or anything, but you know this. There are a lot of things that'll give you dreams. Okay I told my wife last night, kids being home, we had pizza last night. I shouldn't have eaten before church. I mean before bed. On a church night, just before Sunday. And I had the weirdest dream. And and I remembered it when I got up, and I remember it right now. I could tell you all that, I'm not going to, but it was so weird, and I it was like I fought the devil all night long. And I I remember preaching and I was just preaching and preaching and preaching. Man, I tore the bed up through the night. I was I was wound up about something. But but you know what that was? That wasn't the Lord speaking to me. That was that rotten pizza about kill me. It was too spicy for my my constitution. And it about did me in. A lot of times people say, Well, I know God spoke to me because I saw a sign. You know. I I I saw the clouds form a certain uh thing and it it I know it was God communicating to me Somebody told me, they said, I I I saw a particular bird at my bird feeder and I knew it was God talking to me. I said, no, it just means you got the right kind of bird feed for that kind of bird and that bird likes your bird feed and he come to eat it. He's just hungry. Had nothing to do with the Lord. You hear me? You see, we're living in a day of great deception, and many people are turning away from the authoritative word of God. And listen, if God has something to say, He's gonna say it through the Bible. You mark that down. I'm telling you, friend, there's a lot of people getting off track because they're following signs and visions and wonders and all this other stuff when the scripture makes it clear. Your Bible will, if God wants to say something, he's got sixty-six books inspired from him that he will communicate to you through. Thank God for his Bible, for the precious word of God. But are we listening? I believe every time I open the Bible, God's got something to say. I believe we ought to come to church with an anticipation. You know, a lot of times we say, well, man, I wish so-and-so was here tonight because they needed that message. You know what that is? That's just throwing it on back. That's just giving it to somebody else when God has something for you. I hope you understand I'm not preaching at you. I'm preaching along with you. And and uh I'm telling you, God speaks to my heart just as plain through his word as he speaks to you. And and the joy that I find in preaching is that God's already dealt with me about a whole bunch of stuff as I've been studying and preparing to preach the word. Because God's word is the way God communicates. But if I'm walking with God, I'm listening. I'm like Samuel, who comes before the Lord and says, Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. You know a good pray uh prayer to pray on a daily basis before you open your Bible is, Lord, open thou mine eyes to behold wondrous things out of thy law. Lord, would you speak to me and show me something that I specifically need? And I'll tell you this, I believe God delights in answering that prayer. Listening. Let me give you a third word, and that's found over here in the Gospel of John. John chapter number four is where I'm going. And uh I want to read just a couple of verses out of John chapter number four. John chapter number four and verse number twenty-three and twenty-four actually In John chapter 4 and verse 23, the Bible says that the hour cometh, and now is when the true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father seeketh such to worship him. God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. The third word that I want you to see that involves walking with God is this word worship. Worship is the adoration of the heart. The bringing of the heart into a place of awe of the Lord. The wonder, behold, the wonder, looking at the Lord in wonder. Seeing him, if I can just be very simple tonight, seeing him big and everything else small. Recognizing that he's altogether lovely, no matter how unlovely everything else may be It's the attitude of a heart that recognizes the awesomeness of who God is. And if I'm going to walk with God, I must worship. And the Bible says the Father's looking for those kind of people. He's seeking those that will worship him. Man, I just quickly, and I'll just give you a few of these. I went through the Bible and saw what it had to say about worship. And Genesis 22, it involved a place. There was a place of worship. Now, this is a public place of worship. This is what this place is set aside for. That's why we're a little bit jealous around here about how we use our sanctuary. We use our sanctuary for worship. This is a place set aside where we worship the Lord. And whether we it's through hymns or prayers or songs or preaching, whatever it may be, It is designated as a place where we can sit in wonder and awe of God and worship Him. That's important. That's what church is all about. I'm not here to be entertained. I'm not here to be simply educated. I'm here for my heart to be drawn to a place of awe and wonder at the greatness of who God is. That's what worship is. And listen, it there's a place. Exodus 24, it talks about a people. And it's more than one, multiple people. You know, worship must start alone. But it can be carried out with many other people. It it listen, if we're all saved and and and God's working in our hearts here, then we can worship together. That's a good thing about the Lord's Day. We come in this place and we worship together. Isn't it a privilege to do that? I'll tell you, it's a real joy to be able to worship together. This crowd that says, Well I'll just worship up at home, they don't know what they're missing. They don't understand that they're at they're missing something very special When you can come together with brothers and sisters of like faith and worship the Lord Jesus together. Man, it's different. It's it's a whole new thing. Didn't we learn that way back on during COVID? I mean it's one thing to sit and listen to a radio or watch a Facebook live post, but it's another thing to sit in this auditorium among the children of God and lift our voices together and praise the Lord And to honor him and to worship him. We got to do that. It involves other people. Deuteronomy 26, it involved their possessions. They brought their possessions and gave them to the Lord as they worshiped. Joshua chapter 5, Joshua worshiped in prayer. He worshipped in prayer. Do you know prayer can be a worship? Prayer is an act of worship. In Psalm 5, we're to come with a proper attitude, the fear of the Lord. It tells us in verse 7 of that fifth Psalm that we're to worship in the fear of the Lord. That's why we've got to be very careful that we do not involve carnality in our worship That we don't engage our flesh, that worship is not about what makes me feel good or what makes what I think is good, but what does God say is appropriate. I've got to worship in the fear of the Lord in reverence and awe and respect in honor of him. Had some voice uh come and sit in my office and one of them had just uh recently made a profession of salvation and he had got involved in this United Pentecostal movement and uh they had gone to a concert and they were telling me how wonderful it was Now said, can I ask you a question? What made it good? Oh I'm telling you, that music just got me moving. So and they showed me a video. You showed me a little clip that they had on their phone and we're bouncing and jumping and I haven't a big time And I said to that newest, I knew them other boys had been brainwashed as to answer, and I said to that newest young fella, I said, What do you like about it? Oh, I like the music. I said, do the words matter? He said, I know they're good words, but I don't understand them. It's just some music that I like. And I said, young man, can I warn you about something? Because what's happening is that same , and here's what he said. He said, it's the same music I used to listen to. They just say it's got different words. Well hold on a minute. If you're not listening to the words, why does it matter if it's got different words? What's engaged inside of you, what was engaged inside of him was a soulish, a fleshly, emotional response. Now look there's the w how can I say this? Probably everybody's got a past and there's music from back there that brings feelings right here. There's things that you remember and and and things that you've heard and and and they stir up a feeling, they stir up an emotion, you know. They stir up something inside of you. I I mean there was there was a song they used to play before our football game And I'm not going to tell you what it is, but every time I hear it, I think of that football game, and here come all them football players, and they're marching out there, and they're really going to tear things up, and we lost every time. But that music, that music got them all stirred up, got the whole school stirred up. We had um what do we call 'em? Pepper Alley. We'd have a pepper alley And that music, that music was a key part. Listen, church, music is powerful. Be careful what you saturate your mind and heart with. What you're saturating your mind and heart with is the direction your heart's going to be tubbed. If you're in saturated with a fleshly music and you're saturated with a fleshly pool, your your spiritual life's going to go that way. It's going to come down. It's going to be the death blow for many a precious people. But if we fear the Lord, if we worship with the proper attitude, If we come in this place and say, it's not about what I like and it's not about what you like and it's not about what our culture likes, it's not about drawing people in with a particular beat or tone. that they feel comfortable with. It's about making the impression that God Almighty is wonderful. He's awesome. He's holy. He's glorious. And our eyes are turned to the to the greatness of the Lord. That's what music is for, and that's what worship is about. Psalm 66, verse 4, praise is involved in worship. Praise. That's the giving of thanks with your lips. That's the praising with your mouth to God. And according to Isaiah 27, sometimes it's loud praise. It's praise that He's worthy of. Folks, listen, we need to remember something that God is to be praised. Have we not learned through the study of Revelation that really this is the quietest world we're ever lived in? They're always praising him up there. Every scene we get to see, every time the curtains rolled back and we get to peek in over yonder, all we do is see him saying, Holy Lord God Almighty. We see them praising the Lamb who was worthy. We see them honoring the one who's seated on the throne. We see them taking their voices and lifting them up and praising the Lord. Oh, God help us to see this is worship. And then Psalm 95, 6, we see that there is a posture of kneeling in worship. Oh, come, let us bow down. Kneel before the Lord our Maker. We're worshiping him in a posture of kneeling. May the Lord help us not to get so proud that we are ashamed to get on our knees. I know we may be physically incapable, but if you're capable, we ought to get on our knees sometimes and just worship the Lord. Well again, there's nothing wrong with that. That's clearly taught in the Word of God. As they bow before Him and worship Him in the beauty of holiness. A posture of kneeling. Old Percy Ray was an evangelist from another generation. And he was preaching down in Mississippi in a great big First Baptist church. He said it was one of the most influential and wealthy churches in the state, and he don't know how he got invited there, but he got invited there to preach. And before he was to preach, the Spirit of God started dealing with him about his pride. And God so dealt with him about his pride that he said he just felt in his heart the only way to get this thing took care of was to get on his knees and crawl to the communion table. And he said, I stood there and I argued with the Lord and said, now Lord, I'm not going to do that. These are respectable people. This is a a and these are his words, but he said this was this is a highbrow church. You don't do that kind of thing there. And the Lord said, Well, Percy, if you want my power on me when you preach, then uh you'll listen to me. And Dr. Ray said he got on his knees and he crawled to that communion table and just started to pray. And he said, the more he prayed, the more glory came down from heaven. And the more you know he never got to preach in that church. He prayed, and as he prayed, God worked in that assembly, and before that service ended, there were dozens of people who got converted. You say, preacher, what happened? I don't know what happened other than God came down because somebody obeyed him and humbled himself before the Lord. I think sometimes we miss great blessings because of the stubbornness of our hearts. We we will not bow and bend before the Lord. And listen, God, listen, He loves humble people. He'll walk he tells us that's the only way we can walk with him. To walk humbly before thy God Let me say quickly number four. There's a fourth word and definition here of how to worship. John chapter number 14, verse 15 has that word. John chapter 14, verse 15 says, If you love me, keep my commandments. It's called obedience. The test of true love is obedience. Mary said to the servants that stood by in John 2. 5, whatsoever he saith unto you, do it. Loving obedience is testimony to true love. Now please understand you're not walking with God if you're not living obediently. The Bible says in 1 John, he that saith he's in fellowship and walks in darkness, he lies and does not the truth. If I'm say , and there's a whole lot of things, I mean there's there's multitudes of scriptures you could test yourself on and say, am I walking in obedience to the Lord? I had a guy tell me one time, he said, preacher, my church is the lake. I said, really? I said, Hebrews 10, 25 says, not forsake the assembling of ourselves together. Oh preacher, I worship God up there on that lake. I get in my boat, I go out there and I sing and I pray and I praise. I said, sir, I'm not questioning any of that, that you do all that, but what I'm saying is, is that you're being disobedient. And you can't be disobedient and walk with God. Just can't. Please understand that the devil will deceive us on any one point that we allow him to. And any deviation from the Word of God is a dangerous place. I remember Joe Author years ago flew out to preach a meeting and the old pastor picked him up in the airport. And you know, if you knew j Joe, a new brother author, he's real excitable. He's hyper. Now he's getting older and he's not near like he used to be, but boy, when he was young, he was uber hyper. And I mean he couldn't sit still for nothing. And I remember he he said I he said I got off that plane and I was just wound up, you know, looking forward to the meeting and I said to the preacher, I love Jesus, preacher, do you? And the old preacher said, Well, Joe, I'll tell you something. The Bible says, if you love me, keep my commandments, and I'll be honest with you, there's a commandment or two I've been struggling with. He said, I'm not going to pronounce my love for the Lord just yet. I'm going to ask the Lord to help me love him more Brother Joe says, you know what I did? He said I shut my mouth and rode quietly to the hotel room and never said another thing. He said I learned in a hurry that loving Jesus isn't just about saying it with your mouth. Loving Jesus isn't just how you feel in a certain occasion and say, Oh, I love the Lord. You may be gushing with emotion. Loving Jesus is about taking this old Bible and saying, Lord, this is what you said, this is the way, I'm going to walk in it. It's obedience. Let me give you one more. John 15, 5. So walking with God involves a meeting and a listening and a Worship and obedience. And perhaps this is critical here. John 15, 5, the Bible says the last part of that verse, without me ye can do nothing. It involves dependence. Dependence. An entire looking through, as Hebrews 12 says, looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. An entire leaning upon, trusting, living upon the Lord, a dependence Lord, I'm counting on you. How many of you have ever broken a leg, a foot, or something like that and had to use crutches? Did you raise your hand just real quick? You've used crutches, you know what I'm talking about. Well, you you you you learned that you had to depend on that crutch, right? Or or maybe a cane. Anybody had to use a cane. Some use them now. And and what you have to do is you have to depend on that thing. You lean on it. That's your leg, if you will, because you don't have strength in yours. And so you gotta lean on that thing. Maybe you've hurt both or or hurt some other part of your body and you've had to use two crutches. And so what you find out is is that you gotta depend on them. There's no use fighting them, there's no use trying to Uh, you know, put your strength in there and uh because you you gotta get better, all that's broke or whatever, and so you gotta lean entirely upon it. I'm sure all of us have fallen and had to have somebody help us up. I'm looking at a few folks with a little snow on the chimney top. And so I know this that when you go down you don't pop up like you used to. Amen. When you go down, you just stay down until you make sure everything stayed together. Then you get up. And you get up real slow. You get up and you say, Will you help me get up? Somebody reaches down, then they pick you up. So what are you talking about, preacher? I'm talking about depending on the Lord. I read the quote again this morning. I believe it was Habner who said, Take the Holy Spirit out of the church, and 95% of what has gone on will continue on, because we've learned to have church without him. We've learned to live without the help of the Lord. Precious Christian, if you're living without the help of God, you ain't living for the Lord. You're to depend on the Lord. Our our help and our strength and everything I need has got to come from Him. And sometimes God arranges the circumstances so that we need His help Lord, I I I gotta I gotta help you gotta help me. I'm lifting my hand up, I'm crying out. Lord, pick me up There's nothing more humbling than to start realizing your own weakness. I'm talking about in a physical way. Remember Dad called me, and I've told you this, Dad called me and said, Son, I went fishing with your boy And I said, that's good, Dad. And he said, you know what aggravated me? He said he had to help me get out of the creek. He said, my old legs are getting so weak I couldn't climb that bank He said that boy grabbed me by the belt and before I knew it threw me up on the bank. He said I felt like an old fish had just been caught. Now listen, every once in a while I need God just to get a hold of me and lift me up. Learning to lean, the old song says, learning to lean. May the Lord help us. I'm not praying the Lord will debilitate us or or or put us in a situation uh, you know, where Uh that that we're we're broken to that place. But what I'm trying to say is may God help us to realize that when I depend on the Lord, that I'll find more help in the Lord than I can muster from my own self. That I can get from God what I can't get from nobody else. That God can give me the strength I need. He can give me the boldness. that I need. He can give me wisdom and direction. He can give me power to resist temptation. He can give me strength to serve him. He gives me all that I need and just exactly what I need. And friend, listen, we've got to depend on the Lord for that to happen. I believe this is at the very heart of walking with God. It's an attitude of God, you've got to help me through this. It you've got to bring me through, you've got to walk me through this. You call it what you call it, I don't know what to call it, to be honest with you. But I remember years ago after six months of being a pastor of a church, a nervous breakdown, whatever you call it, I just got to the point where I couldn't do nothing. My nerves were bad and just different things going on. And I remember having to sit and say, God, you've got to help me just sit here to eat my meal. My nerves got so bad. And I realized during that time I wouldn't take nothing for it. I thought that was the worst thing that ever come in my life. And I really believed that that was the end of the ministry and I'd never preach again and I might as well resign and quit But here's what I learned in the middle of all that. God will help you. There's a God in heaven who will come to your aid, whether it's emotionally or mentally or physically or spiritually or whatever it may be. There is a God in heaven who will stand with you and will strengthen you and will carry you through. It don't matter what it is, He is faithful. And God is good like that. Church, I'm not just telling you some little storybook I've read or something, an illustration I have lived and know that if God don't help you, you can't do it. But if God will help you, if God does help you, you can. Paul said, I knew all things through Christ which strengtheth me. I don't believe it was the power of Paul's intellect or the power of uh of Paul's uh uh ability to speak and of various languages that he knew. that made him so useful. I believe it was the fact that Paul leaned entirely upon the Lord. Somebody said D. L. Moody heard Henry Varley over in England say it's yet to be seen what God could do through a man. who is completely yielded to him. And D. L. Moody said, I'll be that man. And D. L. Moody, without education, had terrible uh abilities to speak, was not a very smart or intelligent man, but he was a man who was big enough to lean on God. And when he leaned on God he found out that God can do things that nobody else can do for you. And that he'll help you. If God wants you to preach, he'll help you preach. If God wants you to serve him in some way, he'll help you do that. You can depend on the Lord And if I'm walking with God, I'm leaning on the Lord's strong arm every step of the way. This isn't an easy thing to define or to give details to. It's really a lifelong pursuit. It 's carried out in a daily practice that involves the continual purpose of your heart to simply walk humbly with thy God. Brother or sister, it's the greatest thing you can do this side of heaven to walk with God. Say, preacher, I I want to do this for the Lord, I want to do that. Well, let's start here. Let's start with walking humbly with God. If you walk with Him, He'll take you just exactly where you need to be going. And may the Lord help us. May the Lord take these few words and use them in our hearts here tonight. Let's stand together, please, and pray.