It is nothing but grace. And thank God for his amazing grace. I want you to open your Bible, please, to the book of Acts, chapter number 12. I want to read 11 verses in your hearing. Acts chapter number 12. And we'll read the first eleven verses. And I want to preach the Lord helping me tonight on how to survive an attack. How to survive an attack. In Acts chapter number 12, verse number one, why don't you stand with me this evening, please? The Bible says in Acts chapter 12 and verse number one, Now about that time Herod the king stretched forth his hands to vex certain of the church. And he killed James, the brother of John, with the sword. And because he saw it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to take Peter also. Then were the days of unleavened bread. And when he had apprehended him, he put him in prison and delivered him to four quaternions of soldiers, or sixteen soldiers, to keep him. Intending after Easter to bring him forth to the people. Peter therefore was kept in prison. But prayer was made without ceasing of the church unto God for him. And when Herod would have brought him forth the same night, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers bound with two chains, and the keepers before the door kept the prison. And, behold, the angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light shined in the prison. And he smote Peter on the side and raised him up, saying, Arise up quickly. And his chains fell off from his hands. And the angel said unto him, Gird thyself and bind on thy sandals. And so he did. And he saith unto him, Cast thy garment about thee and follow me. And he went out and followed him. And wis not that it was true which was done by the angel, but thought he saw a vision. When they were past the first and the second ward, they came unto the iron gate that leadeth unto the city. Which opened to them of his own accord, and they went out and passed on through one street, and forthwith the angel departed from him. And when Peter was come to himself, he said, Now I know of a surety that the Lord hath sent his angel and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod. And from all the expectation of the people of the Jews. Now that's a rich passage. And may the Lord help us to see some things here this evening. Let's pray together. Father, we come in Jesus' name and acknowledge the great need of our heart is to hear from you. And so, Father, for these few moments that we have together, Lord, separate us from the cares of life, from the distractions of the moment, and from all that the enemy would do to steal the seed of your word. Lord, I pray that you'll plant your word deep in our hearts. May it fall on good ground. And I pray tonight for fruit that will remain. Lord, we ask that you would do the work. We'll give you the glory. Hide us behind the cross. Help us to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. I pray, Father, you'll be pleased with all that's said or done in this place tonight. And Lord, we'll thank you and praise you for your help as we wait upon thee and pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. I want you to notice what was going on in the life of the church at this time. The Bible tells us that Herod the king stretched forth his hands to vex certain of the church. And you ought to highlight that word vex. It means to cause great trouble. It's a word very similar to the word tribulation. And what Herod did is he caused a lot of trouble for God's people. Herod in this passage is a picture of the devil. We see Herod with his intense hatred. He hated the Christians. He hated God's people. We also see that he had an insatiable desire to destroy the work of God. He was going to put to death anybody who owned or named the name of Christ. Now he took James and then he went after Peter, and the Bible says, because he saw that it pleased the Jews. You notice that he was interested in pleasing the Jews? He was interested, he was a people pleaser. And because he was a people pleaser, he was interested in what the people were interested, and apparently the people were interested in silencing the Christians. Can I remind you that the devil's tactics have not changed? He still hates God's people. There's an intensity about the hatred of the devil that is almost unbelievable. And he would love nothing more than to silence God's people. And yet we see here a man by the name of Peter being delivered by God. He survived the attack. He was he had a crosshairs on him. He he had a target on him. He had the bullseye of the devil front and back. He was gang listen, the devil wanted him. By the way, it wasn't the first time Peter went through his old slimy hands. The Bible says that Jesus said, Peter, Satan hath desired thee. And he has desired thee to sift thee as wheat. But I like what Jesus said, but I prayed for thee. Amen. Uh whatever the devil desires to do, if you've got the Lord praying for you, My friend, you're going to come through it. And he told, he told Peter, he said, when thou art converted, not born again, but when you're delivered out of this, when thou art converted, strengthen the brethren. In other words, you get busy helping them with the help that I helped you with to get through that attack. Well, it wasn't over. All of a sudden Peter's going along and minding his own business, and now Herod starts again. He kills James and he goes after Peter. I want you to think about this thing of surviving an attack. I believe it's recorded in the Bible so that you and I can learn how to get through what it is the enemy might throw your way. How to get through an attack. Remember reading, and I've read lots and studied lots about surviving a bear attack. And I don't know in a situation like that how you would keep your calmness to do what they tell you to do. I've sat in classes and heard them say, now if it's a black bear, you fight back. Act big. Be loud. Do and that's that's okay to do. But if you're attacked by a grizzly bear, they say play dead. I mean come on Some of us wouldn't have to play, would we? The old heart just go, You're done You're done. But play dead, you know, cover your neck and all this business. And they tell you your chances of survival are so much better. Well, the reality is I'm not sure I want to encounter either one But you and I can, on the authority of God's word , survive an attack from the enemy. Peter did. And Peter came out victorious. And I believe there are several things we can learn here, and I pray the Lord will take them and use them in our hearts. Number one, if you're making notes. And perhaps you enjoyed it in your in your Bible, so when you read this, you'll be encouraged. But remember this as you survive, the things that it takes to survive an attack of the enemy. Number one, respect the sovereignty of God's plan. Respect the sovereignty of God's plan. You'll notice what it says in verse 2, he killed James But in verse 3, he took Peter. He kills one and imprisons the other. Immediately somebody might ask, why didn't James get to be delivered? Why is James dead and Peter's delivered? Why does God let one man, you you see here the death of James, and the Bible tells us how he died, he died by the sword. We're told he was beheaded. He killed him with a sword. And yet Peter is put in prison, and the church prays, and he's delivered. You think about this and and you when you look at the two, here's James dead, here's Peter delivered. What's the difference? Are they not both God's men? Are they both not the servants of the Lord? Well, let me say this from the outset: there is a great deal of things God does that only God knows why He does what He does. You and I will lose our sanity trying to figure out why one dies and one lives. Why, God delivers some and he won't deliver others. But here's what I can do. I can recognize or respect the sovereignty of God's plan. God had a plan in all of this. He had a plan for the death of James. He had a plan for the detention and deliverance of Peter. And by the way, I think you see that at least in some measure, because in parentheses in verse three, we see the delay of time. The Bible says, Then were the days of unleavened bread. So they imprison Peter, and because of the time schedule, executions are paused. And i i it's no accident that Peter was arrested when Peter was arrested. You've got to understand that God's in charge of the calendar and the clock. Both are under his control. And here he is putting the in the days of unleavened bread. So now we can't kill anybody until this is all over, and it gives a space of grace. I'm saying that if you're going to survive an attack of the enemy, you must recognize or respect the sovereignty of God's plan, that God can do what he wants to do, when he wants to do it, with whomsoever he desires to do it. And he 's the one who's in charge. If not, you'll get mad and bitter and upset Now, Lord, why are you so good to him in this situation and you're putting me through this? I think in some small way, and I don't believe there's answers to all of this, But I believe in some small way you say, why did James die? Because God was through with him. The Bible says it's appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment. And James' ministry was over. Like John the Baptist of old, who came to that place after six months of ministry. That's all God gave him. Six months of ministry, and then he's put in prison, and he's going to lose his head as well. And he says to his disciples, you go ask Jesus if If he's the one, he's in a dark place, he realizes something's coming that that that that he would rather not face. And yet the Lord Jesus said, you go tell John. You go tell John what's going on. Tell him that the blind see and the lame walk and the deaf hear, the poor have the gospel preached unto them. Blessed is he whosoever's not offended shall be offended in me. And you know what? I believe that got John the help he needed, but John previously had said this when his disciples said, Hey, everybody's leaving you and they're following him. He said he must increase and I must decrease. I believe John recognized that God had a plan. He didn't comprehend it all, but he respected the sovereignty of God's plan. He respected the fact that God had a plan. And if you're ever going to get through what is thrown your way, you've got to respect the fact that God has a plan. And oftentimes it goes beyond what you can comprehend. Number two. I believe not only do we need to respect the sovereignty of God's plan, but we need to rely on the prayers of God's people. We need to rely on the prayers of God's people. I don't know about you, but I want somebody praying for me. I want people praying for me. I believe one of the benefits of being a part of an assembly of brothers and sisters is to have people who know you and pray for you. People that can pray specifically, people that can pray directly, people that can pray, these Lone Rangers, I let them be Lone Rangers, man. I need somebody praying for me. And you do too. You do too. Peter's in prison, verse 5 says, Peter therefore was kept in prison. I love this, but see that interjection? But prayer was made without ceasing of the church unto God for him. That immediately tells me this made the difference. This is the reason Peter stayed alive. This is the reason, but oh, he's in prison. We know Herod's intention. He's going to have him killed, but yet we know the church went to praying. You'll notice their intercession. The Bible says prayer was made without ceasing. There was continual prayer. In fact, we find them in the middle of the night at John Mark's mother's house, and what are they doing? They're all there praying. Can I put something in here? Isn't it a mercy that God answers any of our prayers? Here is a people not praying in faith. You say, how do you know? Neat. I know they're in there. That's how you feel sometimes you go visit. I hear you. I used to visit with an old gentleman, was bold as a tiger. He scared me as a young man to death. Well he'd scared me now as an old man to death But I I've seen him stand there. I hear you moving around. I'm not leaving till you open the door. I said, you're gonna get us killed, buddy. That's Peter. The little servant comes to the door and she's It's Peter. What does she do? She shuts the door and runs back in Someone said man gets delivered from prison and dies a death from a cold because they left him outdoors. They wouldn't bring him in. And they he you know the story of the account. They go back, she goes back in and she says, It's Peter. And they said, Oh no, it's his spirit. In other words, I believe they thought Herod had already done the deed. That he was dead. And they said, it must be his spirit stopping by on the way home. Because they did not believe that God But what are they there praying about? U apparently, according to the verse, they're there praying about Peter to be delivered from prison. And then God does it and they're all shocked by it. Now let's not look down our long spiritual noses and think them less than we. So I don't know about you. There's been many a time I've asked God for something, He did it, and I said, Lord, I didn't even see that coming. And you feel like saying, you know, oh me of little faith. But God in mercy answered their prayer. I believe God listen I believe God sometimes answers prayers. You and I don't believe He will, just to show us He can. To remind us that the The power of prayer is not in the people who pray, but in the God who answers. I want you to see that as they As he relied on the prayers of God's people. And by the way, I also want you to see the involvement of their prayers. The Bible says prayer was made was made without ceasing of the church. And when you go over to verse number twelve, you read that many were gathered praying. Many were gathered praying. Well not the it wasn't a sparsely attended prayer meeting. That that place was packed out. There were many who were who were there praying. There were multitudes of individuals who were burdened over Peter's condition and they were praying. Somebody said, God likes a petition signed by more than one. And when we pray, I really believe there's power in united prayer. When all of God's people pray, it ought to be a common thing for God's people to use. Surely there's something That we can come together around and pray about. Surely there's something that we can unite together and ask God for Surely there's something of of of value that you and I can say, oh Lord, help us in this way, and we can we can agree together, we can unite our voices. We can blend together and say, Oh Lord, hear our pleas and cry out to the God of heaven. That pleases the Lord. There's power in that. I've told you before, but I think we need to be reminded that Mr. Spurgeon, the great servant of God, we say a great servant of God, but he was upheld by the great prayers of saints. The folks that interceded for him and prayed for him , multitudes. I'm told that at times upwards of 500 people prayed as that man preached. Five hundred, can you imagine? Five hundred people. I mean, listen, when when when God's people pray and they unite their voices in prayer And they come together around a common burden, God hears their plea. It's amazing the difference it makes when we pray together about something. I believe it's what strengthens our homes. I believe we need to pray together as God's people together in our homes. But listen, in the church house We need to unite together in prayer and bind our hearts together and say, Oh Lord, hear our petitions, join our voices and lift them up to God. That's why I always say, and I believe with all my heart, that the most important meeting of the church is the prayer meeting. You show me a dead church, and I'll show you a prayerless church. I've told you before, but when we first went to Canada, the little church that we tried to help get going again Prayer meetings were dead. Sometimes it was me, my wife, and daughter. That was all. And then you might have one or two of the older ladies that would come. I think at that time there were two or three deacons, I can't remember. None of them came to prayer meeting. And after about a month, I realized we're dead for a reason. We're not praying. And we if we don't pray, if we don't pray, you can't expect God to do anything. Now, if we don't pray, you and I can do f some things, we can do a few things. There are the odd things that we can do without prayer. But they're not eternal things, and they're not substantial things, and they're not important things. Well, Dr. Paisley talked about a church that was dying And he said instead of calling a prayer meeting, they called a session of ideas. They were going to sit around and share ideas. And they decided to take out every other pew. And then they went on and made some other decisions. And and uh Dr. Paisley said one of the things that that he exhorted them to do was to have a prayer meeting. Call a prayer meeting. Have prayer. Well, I'm thankful. I didn't know how to take some. I I had two uh widows in in the first church I pastored that were both had been pastors' wives. And one in particular was unusually bold. She's in heaven now. And I remember Sister Modena, we were we were meeting as a church and praying, how are we going to reach this community? And people had ideas. And you know what? Ideas are just about as good as opinions. They kinda float around. Don't matter. Make make make much of a difference. And somebody said we need to have this social. Well I'll I'll never forget it. She had snow white hair and her face turned so red. I I thought she's having a stroke or something just to see her her countenance and she said Pastor, uh can I say something? And I said, Sister, you go right ahead. She got up and she said, We don't need to have an ice cream social. We need to get on our face and start seeking God. If we start seeking God, and buddy, she lit into some folks, and she said things that a young pastor might have been a little bit scared to say, but A dear old pastor's wife, she wasn't near afraid of saying what what she said, and buddy, she just told us, if we don't start praying, we're gonna die. And boy, that stirred my heart. Oh, I know that got some out of joint. I can feel it. Some of you would have a stroke if some old sister stood up and had something to say. But she had something to say we needed to hear. We didn't have any men that would do it. And she said, we need to pray. You know what we start doing? We start praying. And as our church started to pray, God started to work. It was an amazing thing to see what the Lord was doing as people. I remember one Sunday morning we had 35 visitors and I'm talking about in a little country church where we had more cows than we had people. I mean about the worst crime that was committed up that holler was somebody turning somebody else's cows loose and It it it was an unusual thing and and I remember the Sunday morning we went in and everybody's like, You know them? No, I don't know them. Who's that? I don't know. Why are they here? Well they're visiting And you know that's what we were praying for. We were asking the Lord to do some things. What I'm trying to say, church, is that prayer moves the hand of Almighty God. And Peter's life was spared because of the intercession of the saints of God. By the way, the prayers of God's people worked in conjunction with the sovereign plan of God. It didn't override nor overrule. It coincided with and went together. And boy, when you get those two streams running in the same direction, you're going to see God do something. That's what protected Peter. By the way, if you're going to survive an attack of the enemy, you better have somebody praying for you. If you're going to survive attack from the enemy, you better have somebody who can get a hold of God on your behalf There may be a time, there may be a time in a situation where you can't pray for yourself, but oh what a privilege it is to have a brother or sister, someone you can say, Would you pray for me? Would you pray for me? I can't pray right now. I'm in a situation. You may be physically incapable, but you say, would you pray for me? And isn't it good to know that there's someone taking your name before the Father? There are some of you, I'll say this very discreetly, but there are some of you tell me, you say, Pastor, I pray for you at such and such time. And I'll tell you that encourages me. There are times that that I have awakened at that hour and said, you know, so-and-so 's praying. They're praying for me. Well, that'll help you. And you and I need to pray. That's why the Bible tells us we're to pray one for another. You and I need to pray for, you need to you need to acquaint yourself with praying people. We need to be we need to have somebody in our corner pleading on our behalf and seeking God. So if you're going to survive an attack, yes, we must respect the sovereignty. of God's plan, but we also must rely on the prayers of God's people. But thirdly, let me say this, you need to rest, and I need to rest in God's peace. I need to rest. Aren't you grateful for that text that tells me that the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus our Lord? Thank God for that promise. But look what the Bible says in verse 6. When Herod would have brought him forth, the same night Peter was what All right. About four of you are awake. Let's go back. Verse 6. I'm not chiding you. If I wasn't standing here preaching, I'd be snoring. I'm pretty sure at this point. But here's what the Bible says with the the Herod would have brought him forth the same night Peter was he was sleeping. The same night before he was to be executed. I don't know about you, but that's not conducive to a good night's rest. Knowing that in the morning I'm gonna lose my head. That is unless God gives you supernatural peace. And that's what he gave Peter. Peter was sleeping. Notice his activity. And then notice his accommodations. The Bible says he was chained to two guards. Now these guards were tasked with keeping Peter in prison. And so they're chained to him, and I know that according to the rules, these men were not to be asleep. And I'm certain that they cared not whether he slept or not. He's going to lose his head. So he's chained to two guards. I don't know about you, but when I think about his accommodations, it's even more surprising that he's sleeping. Uh someone was telling me about having to wear those um sleep aids, the CPAP machine. And I can't imagine, I mean that'd be about as bad as being chained to two guards, wouldn't it? You're tied to that thing and you can't move one way or the other. But can you imagine? I'm I'm sure that he wasn't sleeping on a plush king-sized bed. He's sitting in an old dirty, stinky, rotten prison cell chained to these two soldiers, and yet he's sleeping. And not only is he sleeping and he's chained to these two soldiers, but notice the arousing. The Bible says a light. You see that? A great light. The angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light shined in the prison. Look at the next part. He smoked Peter on the side. That word means to uh to to to touch gently so as to awaken. And then the Bible says he raised him up. I don't know that I've ever seen that as I've read this text before. I've read it, but Sometimes you see something after you've read it time and time again. And that that that word literally it it means to lift so as to stir. You ever seen anybody so so sound asleep that when you lift them up, if you let them go, they'll fall right back down? A brother was here with his children, and one of his little ones was asleep back there on the back pew. And he set that little fella up. And he blinked his eyes and they turned around and started talking and he fell right back down. And they set him up again. And look, it was it was all they could do to get him awake. That's how tired he was, or how how deep asleep he was. And you know that's how Peter was. The angel had to lift him up. The angel said, Come on now, Peter, you need to wake up Folks, Peter wasn't lightly sleeping out of desperation. He was deeply resting in the arms of a mighty God. Come life or death, he knew God was in charge. God had given him supernatural peace And listen, when you face an attack of the enemy, you and I need to understand that there's peace, sweet peace that God can give to your soul in the most unusual of circumstances, in the most darkest of difficulties, in the most desperate of situations, God can say, peace be still. And when God speaks, peace be still, I don't care if you're chained to fifty Roman soldiers, or you're facing immediate, whatever it is, my friend, God can bring a peace that passes your and my understanding. Thank God for this real peace. And you know what Peter did? He just went to sleep. He rested in the peace of God. My Bible still says he giveth his beloved sleep. John Wesley would write in his journal. That he had learned to rest in the peace and protection of God. He talked about his travels and accommodations. He often slept outdoors as he rode horseback to preach He would sleep, he said, in some of the most filthy homes that you could imagine. Bug-infested beds. He would describe all sorts of things. He said, on one occasion they put him in a barn and he slept among the roosters and hens that he said kept him company all night long. And someone said, How did you sleep so well? He said, I claim the verse. That God gives his beloved sleep. And I lay down in the peace and protection of God. And I rested. Might be why he lives, be in his 90s. Because he had learned us to rely, or rather to rest, in the peace of God. Lastly, if you're going to survive an attack And by the way, you and I can wring our hands and worry worry to death about what tomorrow brings, and we have absolutely no power to change it. Peter could have stayed up all night long. Oh no. Is it gonna hurt? I w I wonder how I wonder how this is gonna happen. Wonder what he says gonna kill me tomorrow. I wonder if he'll torture I mean he could have worried himself to death, but he realized, listen, wouldn't it have been a shame him miss a night's sleep Now he didn't know it, but God did. He wasn't even going to die. God was going to deliver him. So we can rest in God's peace. But last of all, I want you to notice this. We need to recognize God's power. You see, we often limit God by our own human understanding. We look at things from mere eyes of men rather than the eye of God or the eye of faith. You'll notice something here about his freeing. The Bible says this. Verse 7, his chains fell off from his hands. You ever notice that? They fell off. Folks, chains don't fall off. Not by themselves. You gotta take them off. You've got there's got to be somebody's listen, here's what happened. The Lord said, Turn him loose. And the chains listened. You know, it oftentimes inanimate objects got more sense than us living beings. They'll listen a lot quicker. Here's what they did. They listened. He was free. The chains fell off. And then notice this following. The angel said to him here, follow me. Told him there in verse 8, let me just be brief here, get dressed and follow me. And he went out and followed him. Now, wait a minute, Peter, you got two guards. What happened to them? You got four more men at the door. What happened to them? You got another watch called a ward. Then you got another watch called a ward. And I believe those sixteen men were divided in in that span. And what happened to them? The angel said, Come with me. Now whether God made them blind or he struck them like dead men, the Bible doesn't say. But what we do know is that he got by them without detection. Brother Andrew, the Bible smuggler, often wrote about how God blinded these officials at borders. And he blinded them so that they would even open something and see Bibles. And close it and walk off as if they weren't there. You say, Well did it God blinded them. Listen, the God who made the eye can put it on pause if need be. He can cover up your vision. He can cause you to see what he wants you to see. And that's what happened here. Here's Peter. He's just walking along. I wonder how he felt. Here's these two men, and he gets up and he walks off. Are they asleep? I don't know. We don't the Bible's silent on that, but here's what we do know. They didn't stop him. And then he walks out of the cell, they didn't stop him. He walks through the first ward, they didn't stop him. He walks through the second ward. It's just like he wasn't there. If you've ever crossed international borders, you might have prayed sometimes, Lord, make them blind. Make them blind. We crossed a border that was rarely used and uh We thought that, you know, it wouldn't be a big hassle. You actually at that time could sign a paper. They had a s like a little sign up sheet and said, I crossed the border at such and such time And go in and come back and sign, I cross back in at such and such time. And you never met a soul. Well, this day it happened to be manned. And we were crossing over to go to uh every maner's delight, we were going to Mardin's. Or as they say, Maidens. We were going to Maidens. And uh Elizabeth had bought some little garment for a quarter. Twenty-five cents. I believe it was for Josiah. And we crossed the border and we both had forgotten. I mean it was so insignificant. Did you buy anything while you're in the States? No, not at all. Well, what's in that bag? Oh. It's a quarter. I don't care if it's a quarter. I mean, this was the deputy Barney Five of Border Crossing. And we might as well have been smuggling drugs the way we were interrogated. And ended up paying, I think we had to pay taxes, if I remember right, on that twenty five cent Garment. My notion was let 'em have it. But it was for the children, so it had to go. Alright? But you know, here's Peter. He's not leaving a country. Man, he's living confinement. He's leaving confinement. And those guards asleep, struck dead. I don't know what the Bible's silent, but we know they didn't stop Peter He's following. Can I say this? When you follow the Lord, the Lord is able to make eyes that see blind if it's to your benefit and to his glory. God is able, my friend, to make a way. How does a man get up, walk out of prison, go through all of those wards and land free on the other side? I'll tell you how. Following the Lord. And when you f when you and I follow him, he he certainly sets us free. But then there's one last statement here. Verse number ten, when they were past the first and second word, they came unto the iron gate that leadeth unto the city. Now watch this, which opened to them of his own accord. Someone said that's the first automated gate. Here it is in the Bible. It opened of its own accord. Now hold on. An iron gate doesn't have a wheel. That's what that means, of its own will. It opened of its own accord. But but who opened the gate? Well we know who opened the gate. The Lord opened the gate Now I'm told historically it took at least four of these soldiers and possibly double that to open and close these gates. They were so large and so strong. And yet they just open. And Peter had come in, obviously, that way, and Peter had watched the effort it took to open those gates. And now he's past these soldiers and he's come to the final barrier, and that final barrier is this formidable gate, and all of a sudden it just And he walks through. And the Bible says once he walks through, the angel departed from him. You know why? He wasn't needed anymore. He was free. He was set free. I'm trying to say that you need to recognize the power of God, that there is nothing too hard for the Lord. I don't care if it's chains or if it's guards or if it's gates, God is able to make a way. In our lives, sometimes we limit the Lord. We say, Now, Lord, I can't see how you're going to change that. Well, I don't have to see how He's going to change that. The God who holds The key to the whole universe is able to change whatever he desires to change. And he did that for Peter. If you and I are going to survive an attack of the enemy, we need to recognize God's power. You may say, I don't have the strength to get through. You and you don't. But you have a God who can take you through. That's the difference. Oh, but preacher, I don't know how I'll stand, and having done all stand, I'll tell you how. Be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might I don't know if if I can just get to the other end of this thing. It's too long. It's too dangerous. It's too difficult. Oh, but my friend, there's a God in heaven. Who makes a way when there is no way? Who opens doors that no man can shut, and he shuts doors no man can open. He's the God of heaven. Recognize his power. I think we suffer from little God syndrome in this late hour. The God of modern Christianity is nowhere near as powerful as the God of the Bible. The God of the Bible can do anything. He's able to do anything. My friend, He's capable. He's mighty. He's all powerful. Recognize that. And by the way, he's got more power than the devil. Study your Bible, you'll find out. Look at Job and his life. God allowed him, God allowed him to do some things to Job. But when it was all said and done, God said, now devil, you're finished. And instead of allowing the suffering and torment of Job, God turned the window of heaven open on him and blessed him. Brought him back to a place far beyond where he was before the devil took him down. You know why? Because God has that kind of power. I wonder if Job sat there on that ash heap. Wondering, am I gonna live? His body's covered in severe boils. And the Bible says he's scraping himself, trying to get some relief. He's such a pitiful sight, his wife tells him, just curse God and die. You know something I've heard a lot of of uh wrong haranguing of Job's wife. I don't know that Job's wife was such an evil woman as I've heard her made out to be. You gotta remember something, she's suffering too. That's Job. That's her husband. She 's looking at it from the point of view this man's this man's near, he's that close to death. And death would be a relief. But you know what? Job lived through that. I'll tell you how. Not because he had a strong constitution. But because he was in the hand in the hand of the strong Creator. And God said, Job, you're gonna come through this You don't know it just yet, but I'm going to bring you through. My power will bring you through. Your body's racked with pain. Your mind is jumbled with questions. Your heart is broken with disappointments. But I'm going to see you through. Because that's how powerful our God is. We need to recognize God's power. He can make chains fall off. He can make iron gates open at their will, or his will. He can make soldiers blinded to what's really going on. And I like how this over here It tells us about in the morning. It says, and when Peter was come to himself, he said, Now I know of a surely the Lord has sent his angel. Delivered me out of the hand of Herod from all the expectation. I'm reading verse 11 of the people of the Jews. Look at verse 18. Now as soon as it was day There was no small stir among the soldiers. What was become of Peter? You imagine when the lights came on? Heaven's light came on? Where'd he go? Where is he? Who set him free? I imagine them old cards woke, they're like, what in the world? Where'd he go? He's disappeared. Did somebody come get him? Yes, they did. God did. God brought him out. Friend, listen, there is nothing too hard for the Lord. When you and I face an attack of the enemy, and by the way, it's not a matter of if, it's just a matter of when. When we face an attack of the enemy. Respect God's sovereignty. Just respect his plan. God has a plan. And James, it was God's plan for him to go home to heaven. Peter still had work to do. Peter had a gospel to preach. Peter had, there was something yet more for Peter to do. Rely on the prayers of God's people. Have people pray for you. I think sometimes we don't ask for prayer because we're proud. Pride stops us from saying, Will you pray for me? I don't want anybody to know I I need God. Hello? We all need God. It's not a revelation. It's not something unusual. Everybody sitting here needs the Lord. Sometimes we need him worse than we know. Rely on the prayers of God's people, then rest. Just rest in God's peace. It's very real. You've been saved any length of time. I hope you know something of God stopping by and saying, Shh. And your heart just it's okay. I mean everything's not okay, but you're okay I'm grateful early in my life God let an event occur in our lives and I remember being greatly distressed over what had just happened. And I got right to the front of that vehicle. We'd had a bad car accident. And I walked around to try to get the door open to get Elizabeth out. And I remember God saying, son, it's okay. And in all that chaos and all that confusion, all that I didn't know what was what would come. Here's what I knew: it was okay. Totally contrary to my nature. It wasn't natural. But yet God said, Shh. And when God does that, friend, your heart can rest. Rest in God's peace. And then folks, recognize God's great power. Our God can do anything. And God will often do many things to deliver his people that defy even nature itself. Because that's the God He is. Recognize the power of God and see God bring you through. Aren't you glad? I was thinking as we were singing tonight, God will take care of you. God will. And thank God he does take care of his people. Would you stand with me if you need