I want you to take your Bible, please, and go to the twenty-third Psalm, Psalm 23. And when you find your place in God's Word, I'll invite you to stand with me, please. And I'm only going to read one verse. And that is verse number one Psalm twenty three Verse one states this The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. I want you to look at those last four words, and I want us to think about what is being said here in Psalm 23. I shall not want. Heavenly Father, would you help us this morning? We certainly need to hear from heaven. Lord, I pray that you would fix our eyes upon the Lord Jesus, for He is the answer. And would you, Lord, just meet the great need of every heart? Now, Father, I pray that you'll hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. And may you do the work that is needed. Lord, we we trust you. We thank you. Lord, I praise you this morning and thank you for the privilege of saving my soul and allowing me to be able to say this morning, the Lord is my shepherd. And because, Lord, you are my shepherd, I shall not want. Father, make these truths so clear to our hearts, and we'll thank you for all that you do. For we're trusting, looking to you. Lord, just want to be channels only. Well thank you for what you accomplished, for it's in Jesus' strong name we pray. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. Let me remind you this morning that to be able to say the last part, you have to be able to say the first. I cannot say I shall not want until I can say the Lord is my shepherd. I want to read that and emphasize each word in those first five words, if you will, just for a moment. And think with me about what it says. Notice, thee, Lord, is my shepherd. That little word thee, that definite article, speaks exclusively of one There's only one Lord who is my shepherd. In John chapter fourteen and six, the Bible says Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Aren't you glad there's no confusion in the Bible about who we're speaking of here? We're talking about the Lord is my shepherd. Then please look at the very next word, Lord. The Lord is my shepherd. And that's a a a title given to the Lord that That name of Jehovah, I believe it is the New Testament or the Old Testament equivalent of the New Testament word Jesus or titled Jesus. And I don't believe I'm harming the scripture at all by saying, Jesus is my shepherd. In John chapter 10, we read it this morning in verse number 11. Jesus said, I am the good shepherd. Aren't you glad you have a shepherd this morning in Jesus Christ the Lord? He's our shepherd. We see the Lord. Then notice that next little word. The Lord is my shepherd. The Lord is. And I know it's italicized here because uh it it is not in the Hebrew, but it is implied there, or else it would not be there. The word is speaks of the tense of time. It is present. The Lord is my shepherd. Meaning presently he is my shepherd. I'm grateful this morning that he's not the Lord who was. You know, there's a lot of stuff that was that just isn't anymore. And and all of the wases that used to be are of no value in the sense of helping me today I'm thankful for every meal I had last week. But you know what? I'm gonna be hungry here in a little bit and need another one. And what I ate last week's not gonna help me today. I need a present, a present meal And the Bible tells us that our Lord is an ever-present help. I'm glad He is the great I am, not the great I was. The Lord is. He is my shepherd. Then let me emphasize the next little word. The Lord is my He's my shepherd. This is personal. It becomes personal the moment you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and get saved. It's one thing to know He is a Savior. It's one thing to know even that He is the Savior. It's a whole different thing altogether. to know he's my savior. My Savior. Do you know that this morning? Do you know that he is your Savior? Can you say with the assurance that only the Bible can give you that the Lord is my shepherd? There's a point in time when you put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. You may have been born in this country and say, well, I'm an American. That makes me automatically a Christian, not according to the Bible. But I was raised in a Christian home, you might say. But can I say to you, dear friend, that being raised in a Christian home as good as that is, as wonderful as that is, as as as great a blessing as that is, that does not make you a Christian? My friend, you say, but but preacher, I I believe. I believe all that the Bible says. I believe that Jesus is the Son of God. And and as good as all of that is, even the devils believe and tremble The only way for you to be saved is you must be born again. You must exercise personal faith in the person of Jesus Christ and had that moment in time where you were convinced of your lostness, your the fact that you needed to be born again, and by the way That's the work of the Holy Spirit. We may not understand all of that, but that's the ministry of the Holy Spirit. He makes me know these things that I cannot know apart from him. And when you understand you're lost and you understand he saves and you cry out to him. And listen, a lot of times we put a whole lot of emphasis on what we cry, and we make that some sort of magic uh charm or some sort of mantra. We repeat it. But may I tell you this this morning that in the Word of God there's all sorts of prayers that were prayed by sinners that got saved. It is not the content so much of what you pray, it's the one to whom you pray. It's the fact that you call out to him, Be merciful unto me a sinner. Listen, when you cry out to him for mercy He does not turn a deaf ear. He does not ignore the cry of the lost for salvation. He saves. And when he saves, here's what you can say. The Lord is my shepherd. Let me ask you this morning. Is he your shepherd today? Now look at the next word, and let me emphasize it. The Lord is my, look at it, shepherd. The Lord is my shepherd. What is a shepherd? A shepherd is someone who we know cared for sheep. A shepherd is someone who took care of sheep. He tended to the sheep. He showed his concern for the sheep. He took care of them. He ministered to them. He fed them when they were hungry. He gave them water when they were thirsty. He protected them from danger. In other words, he watched over them. The Lord is my shepherd. He's the shepherd of my soul. Peter said he's the shepherd and the bishop of our souls. And if you're saved today, you have a shepherd. You have someone who's taking care of you. And because you can say the Lord is my shepherd, and I'm gr I'm grateful this morning. I'll get it out here in a minute. I'm grateful this morning for John chapter number 10 that it lays it out so beautifully and clearly that Jesus Christ is that shepherd. He's the good shepherd, the Bible says, as the good shepherd, he lay down his life for the sheep. He tells us that he's the door into the sheepfold. He said, By me, if any man enter in He shall be saved and shall go in and out and find pasture. Beloved, this morning, this this thing, if you will, if I can say it in that way, of Christianity is not about you and church. It's not about you and the works that you do. It's not about you and all of the other things that we tag along. It's about you and the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord is my shepherd. Now, I pray you can say that this morning. If not, I pray before this day ends you'll be able to. Because somewhere you'll cry out and ask the Lord to be your Savior, forgive your sin, and make you a new creature in Christ Jesus. And friend, he will do that in a mere moment of time. And then you can say this, I shall not want. Have you ever thought about those four words? They're big, it's it's a big statement. I shall not want. It means so many different things, and I believe he goes on to tell us what those things are. in in this psalm. And I'm going to highlight those here in just a moment, but I want you to think about what he's saying. He's saying, I shall not want. I'm under such good care that I shall not want. I have such a shepherd that that that because he's my shepherd I I I'll not have a need. I I I'll never be in danger in the sense that I'll not have protection. I I I shall not want. In other words, I believe the little sheep, by the way, that's what Psalm 23 is It's often been called the shepherd's psalm, but it really ought to be called the sheep's psalm, because the sheep's speaking The sheep is doing the talking here. The sheep is testifying. The sheep is saying these words, I shall not want. He's my shepherd, and because he's my shepherd, I shall not want. In other words, the sheep is saying, I'm content. With my shepherd. I'm content with my shepherd. Can I ask you this morning, are you content with your shepherd? You know, we live in an age where discontentment is a cultural norm. People want bigger, better, different something, and we're discontent. Our whole society, in fact, it seems that our whole economic situation seems to thrive on the discontentment of peoples. We're discontent with what we have, and so we want more. And we're discontent with life, and so we want a different one. But can I say to you this morning that as a Christian , there's a place of rest that you and I can enter into and we can say, I'm content. Paul told us that godliness with contentment is what? Great gain It's great advantage. It's great prosperity. It's a great advancement, if you will, if I'm content, if I know what it is to be content. Now the sheep is saying, I'm content. I've got no reason to look elsewhere because the Lord is my shepherd. I I'm content with the Lord Jesus. And and I want to challenge you this morning on those lines of of I shall not want. Is that the cry of your heart? Is that the testimony of your life? Can you say this morning with firm assurance that the Lord is my shepherd and because he's my shepherd, I shall not want? You have found in him all that you need. That's what he's saying. The sheep is saying, my shepherd's all I need. He's all I need. He's really all that I need. Now oftentimes I believe it was Vance Abner who said that we do not know he's all I need until he's all I've got. Sadly, sometimes that's where we gotta get. But the truth of the matter is, before we get to where he's all we've got, he still is all I need. He's all I need. Look at what the Bible says. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Number one, I shall not want for care For care. Look what it says. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. Green pastures for the sheep is symbolic of care. A shepherd moves his sheep to pastures that are green because that's where they'll be cared for. That's where they'll get the nutrients they need. That's where they'll get the food and all the nourishment. And he takes those little sheep and he moves them from pasture to pasture, because if he doesn't, they'll eat all the pasture and they'll destroy the the ground and they'll destroy that pasture land. And so They have to be moved from time to time, but the good shepherd knows where the good grazing can be found. And so he takes them and he says, now this is where I I can feed you, and this is how I I'll take care of you. And what this is a picture of is the care of the Lord for his people. God takes care of his own. If you've been saved more than just a few minutes, you know this to be true. How many times have we fretted and worried over things that God has already got a plan for? Well now how am I going to take care of this? Remember this, he's taking care of you. He makes me to lie down. By the way, the sheep that lie down are the sheep that are got their little bellies full and they're content. Hungry sheep will not lie down. Hungry sheep will not rest. Hungry sheep will be discontent till they get full. But here's a picture he's saying, I take such good care of my sheep that they can rest. Are you resting in his care? You you you know if you if you have a habit of of following the news line and the news stories, and I don't care what where you get your news from All of it is geared in one way, and that's to be an alarm. And if we're not careful, we're watching and listening and we're filling our minds. And you know what? We're worried. What if we have to pay $10 a dozen for eggs? You say that's silly. My wife showed me the other day somewhere they're selling for $7 now. $7. $7 a dozen eggs. Well how how are we gonna how are we gonna do it and and if you listen to all of the uh the uh uh forecasters of things to come, oh it's gonna get bad, it's gonna get worse. And I don't know, I'm not disagreeing with all of those things, but here's what I'm trying to say. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. The shepherd will care for his sheep. The Lord will care for his people. Don't doubt that at all. Don't doubt that at all. The devil wants you to think that somehow or another he'll forsake you, but my Bible says that that I have never seen the righteous forsaken nor his seed begging bread. God takes care of his children. God does. Oh listen, don't think for a minute that God's all of a sudden perplexed over this modern situation. Know this, our God's able. Millions of people in the desert were wandering and saying, We have no food. How are we going to eat? And God said, manna. And he fed them. Forty years he fed them. What are we going to drink? There's no water in this land. It's a dry land, a thirsty land. And God said there's water in that rock. And God provided. And don't forget for a moment that the God who brought manna out of nowhere and water out of the rock is the same God that watches over you and I, who declare, who know He is our shepherd. He will care for his home. In Matthew chapter 6, the Lord told these disturbed disciples, look at the birds. Look look, they they don't build barns and raise gardens and put up food, but I feed them. And look at the lilies and consider how beautiful they are, and they don't toil or spin. He said, Consider Solomon in all of his glory was not arrayed like one of these. And then he tells us the root of the problem, O ye of little faith. Listen, he said, I'll clothe you. If I can clothe the grass of the field and feed the birds of the air. Will I not do so much more for you? And obviously I'm paraphrasing there, but I'm trying to get the point across that God takes care of his own. Philippians 4 teaches us, but my God shall supply all your need according to his riches, not according to Wall Street. not according to the stock market, not according to the economy, but according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. God cares for his own. You need to know that, and I need to know that and be reminded of that. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. Some of God's little people are worrying themselves sick about what's to come and how things are going to go. And quite frankly, we need the reminder and perhaps even the rebuke that the Word of God brings us and tells us that we do have a shepherd who cares for his sheep. That he's not turning a blind eye, he's not got a deaf ear, he's got a mighty arm that's able to save. And friend, listen, we we often worry about things that God already has the solution for. My God shall supply all your need. I want you to see the care, the care of the shepherd. I shall not want. I shall not want for care. He'll never stop caring. He'll never stop caring. He'll never stop taking care. I think a lot of times older Christians who have lived through a thing or two have something to teach us that's very valuable. Because they've lived through things and they they can say, you know, the Lord has been faithful. The Lord has has demonstrated his care over the years. And when I couldn't see a way, God's always made a way. God has been able. I think it more important this morning that we hear the voice of the shepherd than we hear the voice of our society. Our culture is crying with a clamorous voice be afraid, be full of fear, worry, and fret. Make yourself sick from wondering what's to come. But the the little sheep get close to the shepherd and the shepherd's heart seems to beat and with every beat says, I'll care for you. I'll care for you. I'll care for you. I gave my blood to save you. I'll care for you. I died in your place and paid your sin debt. I'll care for you. I'll take care. If I provided for eternal things, don't think that I'll turn a blind eye to temporal things. He says very clearly, I will care for you. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. I want you to notice I shall not want for care. Quickly, I shall not want for peace. He leadeth me beside the still waters. Here is a picture of the peace that passes all understanding. Sheep by nature are timid creatures. They're easily spooked. They're alarmed, loud noises make them run. They dart and they'll fly off. And oftentimes they'll hurt themselves from from from that experience. They're just They're they're they're just sort of flighty. They're on the edge. We we have a little little dog, little hoss, and we call him Boo. Because he's scared of everything. If you drop some, he's and he's wondering, what are you gonna do? You know, he's with Boo, that's his name, because he's just afraid of everything. You move a chair and he jumps and he runs and he hides. He's been that way since he was little. He just he's scared and the older he gets, the worse he gets He's just afraid and and and and and it it doesn't I mean you can open a window. I opened the window the other day and he jumped out of his skin. He scared me because it scared him. He and I both are standing in the corner shaking here. What just happened? I don't know what happened. Somebody in here I don't know about, you know? Goodness. Nervous people shouldn't have nervous dogs. But I want you to see this sheep. He he he leadeth me beside the still waters. That's a place of peace. There is a peace that God alone can give. John chapter 14 and verse number 27, Jesus said, My peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I give Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Aren't you glad there's peace today? In fact, Colossians says he is our peace. My peace is not a feeling. My peace is not an emotion. My peace is a person. And that person is the Lord Jesus Christ. So long as he is, all's well. So long as he is, all's well. It may not look well, and it may not feel well, and it may not appear to be well, but so long as God is, all is well. He is our peace. Oh, thank God. I shall not want for peace. He gives the peace, and and and what a great peace that is. By the way, I'll say to you this morning, there is no peace until you know Jesus as your Savior. The Bible says there's no peace for the wicked. There's no peace. You'll not find it. You can look for it high and low. You can travel far and wide, and you'll never find peace until you come to the Lord Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. There's no peace outside of him. Our world's trying to figure out how to have peace, but here's the problem. They're leaving out the Prince of Peace And so long as you exclude him from the equation, there never can be peace. There might be a temporary truth, there might be a uh a a continual calm, but there never will be peace until it comes from Jesus. Don't think for a moment in your life you'll ever find a place where there's no troubles. I asked my dear pastor years ago, I said, are there place is there a place in your Christian life where you don't have a battle anymore? Is there a place in your Christian life where you don't fight the things you fight? And there's no there's no warfare, so to speak. Is there a place Where you just sort of get the upper hand and keep the upper hand, just sort of sail on to glory. He said, Dream on, son. There's no such place. So long as we live in these bodies, we'll have conflict with flesh. So long as we live in a fallen world with a fallen nature, there's going to be troubles abounding. But I'm glad in the midst of all of that there's peace. God's peace. Real peace. It's peace that, as the Scripture teaches us, will pass all understanding. When we take all of our cares and lay it out before his feet in prayer, I'm glad that he gives in exchange that peace, that sweet peace, that real peace, that lasting peace. Peace is not necessarily the absence of trouble. Jesus taught his disciples that in the world you'll have tribulation. In the world you'll have, there's going to be a conflict. There's going to be a battle. And listen, don't think for a moment that things are getting better in the world. We do live in a world, in fact, I I do believe the direction we're headed, it's going to be harder, even harder still to be a Christian in the world we're living in. There's going to be a conflict. If you stand for Christ, now if you lay down and roll over and play dead, then that they're not going to mess with you. But if you stand for the Lord Jesus and the f the the gospel of grace that that is so clearly outlined in the Word of God There's going to be conflict. There's going to be difficulties. There's going to be opposition. But Jesus reminds us he's already overcome that. And that in him we've got peace. A peace, my friend, that will sustain you through the darkest hour, the most difficult of of situations of peace that's real and lasting and thank God supernatural in nature for it comes from the Lord's hand. I shall not want for peace. Look at our Lord on that stormy Sea of Galilee, laying in the bottom of the boat of sleep. He wasn't wringing his hands and fretting. He wasn't fearful over what could happen. He he wasn't pacing the deck of the ship saying, I hope she stays afloat. He'd put his head. Listen now. He had put his head on the sovereignty of his father. God is God. And he rested in the reality. He had the peace, that peace. He of course is peace, but I'm saying he gave us a wonderful example of how to sail through the storms of life. I'm not saying it's easy, and I'm not saying i i it's it's just uh you know natural. In fact, it's quite contrary to most of our natures to realize that there's peace in the midst of a storm. I think most most Christians are sort of like chicken little the sky is falling. But you've got to remember who put the sky in place. And we've got to remember who's in control of all things. He is our peace. I have peace with God through him. My sin rises up and says, condemned. My Savior stands and cries, forgiven. He is my peace. He's my peace in the midst of storms, for he said, I'll never leave thee nor forsake thee, so that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper. He is our peace. Thank God that we can say, The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want for peace. Look at this next one with me, would you? I shall not want for restoration. He restoreth my soul. Restoration It 's going to be required from time to time for God's people. You're going to need to be restored. I was reading somewhere not long ago, and I heard that sheep need to be reassured by their shepherd. And that often sheep will pass by the shepherd, and all the shepherd has to do is put a kind hand on their head or across their back. And it restores that sense of calm. And I thought, what a picture of my Lord. David cried after a grievous sin, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. David's soul needed restoration. David had sinned against God, and his soul was troubled deep within, and he needed to be brought to a place of cleanness before the Lord and quietness in his heart And I'm here to report to you there's a shepherd who can restore your soul. I don't have to be restored by the church. Now I might need to be restored to the church, but I don't have to be restored by the church. There is a difference. I don't have to be restored by the work of man. I don't have to go and confess my sin to men. My Bible says in 1 John 1 9, if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just To forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Our restorer is the Lord. He restores. And what a marvelous thing it is. Look at Jonah. That running prophet , mad at God , hates the Minevites, yet God spares them. And you know what Jonah needed? He needed restoration. He needed to get his own heart right with the Lord. He sat there with a with a mopey look and said, I knew you'd do this. You're gracious and merciful, and that's why I didn't want to come in the first place. Well, he's just barren his own bitterness. He needed restoration. Look at Aaron Peter, Peter who denied his own Lord, and yet watch him as the Lord says, Children, have you any meat? Come and dine. And on the seashore there, on the Sea of Galilee, they sat along the shore. And Jesus said, Do you love me? You know what he's doing? That's that hand on the head of that sheep. That's restoration. Peter, do you love me? He's restoring him. He's restoring his soul. He's bringing life back. He's bringing that that that zeal back, that devotion back Listen, he restores my soul. I shall not want for restoration. If you're not right with God, it's not his fault. Did you hear me? If you're not right, if you're saved and you're not where you ought to be with God, it's not his fault. We sit around and think that somehow God's supernaturally going to strike me with something and suddenly I'll be right with the Lord. That don't happen that way. The Bible tells us we're to confess our sin, we're to forsake our sin, we're to draw near to God. If we draw near to God, He'll draw near to us. It's not that he wants us to live at it at arm's length. In fact, it's as strange to him as it is to you. To live at a distance. You don't have to live at a distance. He restores. I shall not want for restoration. You need restoration this morning. You can only find it in one place. Is your soul dry like an old desert? Is your spiritual life barren and empty? Is your heart cold and or are you away? Listen, there's restoration to be had. Go to the shepherd. Go to the Lord Jesus. He's the great restorer of his sheep. He delights in restoration. He delights in restoration. Read your Bible throughout the whole Old Testament. You know what I find? One story after the other of God restoring people. God taking people who had no hope and given hope. God taken individuals who who who who it seemed like it was over, they're done, they're finished. When Naomi and Ruth come home, they're broken , they're barren. You know what? They're burdened. Down there in that place where they had left, they left the Lord and went down, left the house of bread. Down there they knew nothing but loss. And then they come home. And it was at home they found restoration. It was at home they found food to eat. Those little handfuls of purples. Just dropped everywhere. It was there as as they came home that she that that Ruth was made bright again It was there at home when they came back that all that had been taken was restored. I'm just saying, dear friend, that there's restoration in the Lord Jesus. Go to Him. Go to Him. You don't have to go to men. You don't have to go to particular places, you say. Just go to the Lord. He restores my soul. He makes it live again. As dry and thirsty as that inner man may be, there's a God in heaven who satisfies that thirsty soul. Look at Jesus sitting by the well there in Samaria. Here comes a woman. Boy, she's needing water. What she didn't know is she needed more than water. But boy, when she met the Lord, oh she found everything she'd wanted. He restores my soul. He restores my soul. Let me give you one more, please. Not only shall I not want for care, and I shall not want for peace, and I shall not want for restoration. But I shall not want for direction. Look what it says. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Preacher, I don't know what to do. He does. Follow him. Follow him. He leadeth me. Uh what 's the the old hymn? He leadeth me, oh blessed thought. Isn't it a blessed thing to think that he leads me? He leads me in the paths. These are very distinctive paths. They're paths of righteousness. He never leads you in paths of unrighteousness. He will not lead you into sin. He will not lead you into wrong. He'll never lead you across the pages of the Word of God. He'll never do that. He leads in paths of righteousness. How? For his name's sake. Oh, dear friend, listen, there's direction to be had in the shepherd, he'll lead you. I like this. He not only knows the way, but he is the way. Preacher, I just don't know what to do. I don't know how to where to go. I don't know what what he wants me to do. I don't know the decisions I need to make. Know this. Just get close to the shepherd, and you'll get to know what he wants you to do. Because he's the one who directs our paths. But you know, we we often try to get it all figured out. I was thinking last night, you know, all the things that I had figured out when I was twenty was all the wrong path. I had it look, I had it laid out just as plain as day. And I've not walked one step in those paths I had planned. Not one. But I believe he's led in the paths of righteousness. Listen, he'll lead you. We sing that old song, Our Lord Knows the Way Through the Wilderness. All I have to do is what? Follow. There's the struggle. There's where the battle is. Am I going to follow him? You know what you've got to do to follow the Lord? You've got to submit to the Lord. You've got to submit to him. You can't lead something that will not submit. You ever try to to lead something, maybe an animal, a pet, uh something of that nature? I I was thinking we were moving some calves one time, they were six month old. And we put a halter on them and and we were trying to lead them. You don't lead them if they don't want to go. I don't care how talented or strong I remember Elizabeth's brother, he he worked with us there and He said, I'll show you how to lead them. And boy, he got treated like a rag doll all down the all down through the the uh driveway there. Burnt the bottoms of his boots off to the skin. He tried to stop. You're not going to stop something that don't want to be led. And you know, sometimes we treat the Lord like that. You know what God called Israel? He said, You're a backsliding heifer. That's what he called them. He said, You're stubborn. You won't let me lead you. You stiffen your neck and you go your way. And look, do you see what it ha what happened? Does it bring any good? Absolutely not. You and I need to go in his way. Let him lead us along. The Lord leads us along. Thank God for his leading. He he will lead you in the paths of righteousness. Submit to the Lord's leading. Let the Lord have his way. That's the best way. I shall not want for direction. Now, friend, none of this is true if you cannot say the Lord is my shepherd. And if you're not saved today, let me urge you today, take this thing seriously, because your soul is at stake. Eternity lies before you Heaven is real. Hell is real. Salvation is real. Being lost is real. Not knowing the Lord is real, and knowing the Lord is real. Friend, what you do with the Lord Jesus will determine one day what the Lord Jesus will do with you. Do as the Bible declares, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Trust him today before it's too late. My dear friend, if you're saved by the grace of God, look to your shepherd. He will care for you. You can say with with bold assurance, not because of who you are, get this please Not because of what you do, not because you have the right title, not because of anything that has anything to do with you. It's all about the shepherd. He'll care for you. He will provide for you. He'll prosper. He'll take care. He'll give you peace. He'll restore you. He'll give you direction. Look to the shepherd. Look to the shepherd. I shall not want. Is that your testimony? Dear Christian brother, sister, you know, I find when I need restoration it's it's it's when I'm I'm not thankful as they sing about this morning, or oftentimes it's when I 'm not looking to the shepherd for these things I've spoken of this morning. I need restoration if all I'm doing is grumbling and complaining. Now look, I'm going to be honest with you. I don't like the direction of the economy at this point, no better than anybody else. But that's bigger than me and that's beyond me. I'm the Lord's. You're the Lord. If you're saved, you're his. We're under his care. He's the one that taught me to say, our Father. He's responsible for me. He's responsible for you. He's made himself responsible. Look to him. Could we not just look to him? Listen, dear Christian, I don't think you've got to do a whole lot of spectacular things in the world we're living in to be totally different from everyone else if you will just start looking to the Lord. And looking to him because he's your shepherd. Oh, may God help us to look. What burden you carry on your heart? Look to the Lord. What dilemma lies in your future? Look to the Lord. What great unknown stares you in the face? Just look to the Lord. I'm not oversimplifying anything. I'm simply trying to get us back to the precious Word of God where there's answers, where there's hope, where there's victory, where there's joy, where there's truth. There's truth, church. Don't get smarter than God. You can't do it. Some of you think you are. Because you're trying to do the things he told you not to do. Look to the Lord. The Lord is my shepherd You see that little sheep, I like to imagine in my mind that little sheep, he's not boasting in him. He knows he's just a sheep And the sheep don't have any way to look after themselves. They're rather uh helpless little things. But you know what he's doing? He's saying, He's my shepherd. I I can you know I can bo I can boast about that. I can be proud about that. I can be thankful for that. I can glorify God over that. The Lord is my shepherd. Oh, may the Lord help us to look to him this morning. Would you stand with me, please, Brother Dow, you come. Father, help us this morning, please.