Amen. I want you to take your Bibles again, please, and go with me to Psalm 23 once more. Psalm 23 and verse number one. And when you find your place. I'll invite you to stand with me, please, as we honor the reading of God's Word. Psalm 23, and I would like to read just verse number one this evening again. Psalm twenty-three and verse number one says, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. I want to magnify those four words I shall not want. Heavenly Father, would you help us again, please, this evening? You know the need of every heart, and I trust you'll meet that. I'm thankful, Lord, that we do have thee to be our shepherd. Lord, how grateful we are that you are faithful and unfailing. We're thankful, Lord, that we can rest in your good care. Now I pray, Father, that you'll open your word to our hearts and your heart, or rather our hearts to your word. And have your way with each one. Lord, if there's one listening or attending this service who's never been saved, I pray that today would be the glad day that they trust you to be their Savior. Lord, would you do that work that is needed to convict of sin and of righteousness and of judgment to come and accomplish that miracle work of the new birth that only you can Lord, I pray you'd be pleased to draw near us. Help me now in these moments. Hide us behind the cross. Help us to lift up the Lord Jesus. And have your way we pray in Jesus' strong name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. I again want to remind you that the only way that you can make the statement, I shall not want. Is that you're able to make the first statement by saying, The Lord is my shepherd? If the Lord is my shepherd, you can assuredly say, I shall not want. I want to highlight those words individually. Let me read them and do it in this way. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. I Aren't you glad the Bible reads the way it reads? The Bible does not say David shall not want. It's broader than that. The promises of God are much more inclusive than that. The Spirit of God said, David write, I shall not walk. So that here we are, these many thousands of years later, we read the Word of God and we can say with great confidence, I shall not want. And whoever the I may be, you can rest assured if the Lord is your shepherd, you can claim this because he's no respecter of persons. Thank God for that little word I. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Let's look at the next word. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. I shall not want. Do you see in the text here that he's anticipating things to come? He's looking down the road and he's saying, Whatever may come, whatever the future may hold, I shall not want. And so in that little word shall is such a broad coverage of everything imaginable, whether it be the valley of the shadow of death. Whether it be in the presence of mine enemies, whether it be through the place of difficulty, you can say with calm assurance, I shall not want. Then notice with me those last two words. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall, now watch this, not want. In other words, all needs and all matters and all issues are addressed in that statement. I shall not want. The sheep is literally saying, no matter what may come my way, I can rest assured that God will provide. I'm glad God's grace. Here's what God told Paul. He said, My grace is sufficient for thee. God's grace is sufficient for whatever the stri the struggle, whatever the trial. Whatever the difficulty, there is sufficient grace for every need. God's grace is a sufficient grace. Do you realize that the grace of God has never been exhausted? Though millions upon millions have trusted in the grace of God, not just for salvation, but to sustain them through every imaginable situation, the grace of God is inexhaustible. You'll never need grace that it's not there for you. There will never be a situation where God's grace is not capable of going And providing and encouraging and meeting the need, why? Because God's grace is sufficient. And so he said very clearly, I shall not want. We looked at a few things this morning concerning this matter of I shall not want. I want to just briefly remind you before we go on in the text and remind you again that I shall not want for care. The Bible says He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. How faithful God is to care for His people. God is faithful. If we took the time this evening to have every one of you stand and give testimony to the care of God, we'd be here probably until Jesus comes. Because God cares for his own. I mean we could we could stand here and and tell story after story. That's not our purpose tonight. But but we could tell you uh of the care of God, the faithfulness of God. God is faithful to care for his own. How good the Lord is to do that. I hope you have some testimonies. I hope you have some evidences. Let's call them a biblical term. I hope you have some Ebenezer 's You know what I'm talking about in the Word of God, the Ebenezers, hitherto hath the Lord helped us? They're testimonies of the fact that, hey, God helped us. God helped us. I was thinking this afternoon of a dear brother who I I had never met before and he came up into Canada and we had just been there a little while and Uh we uh went with five hundred dollars a month support uh uh a month and for that first little while and I'll never forget the church. Thought this one was sending it, and another one thought that one was sending it, and so nobody sent it for about six months. And we're starting to get a little concerned. And here comes this guy from Tennessee. Don't know him, got a very unusual personality. And he pulls up in the yard and he says, You the preacher over there at the Independent Baptist Church? I said, I am. He said, Good, I've got something for you. He was pulling this enclosed trailer. Didn't know him. I didn't know who he was. And he said, In in I I've got some things in here for you. Just come in here and tell me what you need. And I said, Well sir, I don't I don't know that. Just Uh you know, what I uh who are you? What's he said? That's not important. He said, I I've got some things here and and what he did, he traveled up from Tennessee and he came across, he stopped in Lancaster and he got some stuff from the Amish He had all sorts of meat and cheeses and food of all sorts. And he said, just fill your freezer up. That's why I bring it up here. And I got to enjoy the fellowship with Brother Bob Creel. And Brother Creel was was unique. My family remembers Brother Bobby. He was a unique man. He he would he he bought his wife passed away. Went to be with the Lord and he he bought the hearse that they carried her body to the grave in. And he painted on it, prepare for eternity. And would set that thing up in these shopping centers and preach the gospel to people. And he said, the last person that rode in this car was my wife. And then he'd tell them how to get saved. And and oh how the Lord used that dear man and what a testimony it was. But he said, you know, he said, I don't like crossing the border. He said, I get mad over there. And he could get mad. He very well could get mad. But he said, you know, I crossed the border and they they didn't want me to bring all this food stuff in. You know they had all these regulations. He said, I told them. How insane. He said, you people don't take care of your preachers over here, and I got some of them that are starving to death, and you're going to keep this food from them? He said that border guard dropped his head and said, go, get, go on. Come on in. Well, he wasn't afraid to do that. He was something else. Well, why did I tell you that? I'll tell you that because God sent him at the right time. That was the care of the Lord. That was the care of the Lord. Didn't know him from that, didn't know who he was, and he really didn't know who we were, other than we pastored that little independent Baptist church. But here's the truth: God did. God knew all about that. You know why? Because God takes care of his own. I shall not want for care. I shall not want for peace. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. I shall not want for restoration. Aren't you glad he's the restorer of our soul? He knows how to make live what's about to die. He knows how to comfort and to and to bring to life that which is struggling. He restoreth my soul. And then he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. I shall not want for direction. The Lord knows how to take us through. He knows the way. You know, have you ever noticed as you follow the children of Israel through the wilderness that God led them a particular way? He didn't lead them the easy way, because it would have got them into a conflict with an army that they weren't prepared to fight. In fact, he told them, had I led you that way, it could have been that that battle would have made you turn back and you wouldn't have gone any further. But God led them a different way. Why? Because he knew that was the way they needed to go. I'm glad God knows the way I need to go. And he knows the right and his way listen to me, his way's always the right way. His way's the right way. Now look, it may not make a bit of sense to us or look It looked like it really should be that way, but we know that if it's his way, it's the right way. I shall not want for direction Now let me look with you, please, the verses four and five. And I want you to notice I shall not want for protection. I shall not want for protection. Notice what it says, yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For thou art with me, thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. I want you to notice the protection of the Lord. There's several words you ought to mark in that text. The first one is the word through, yea, though I walk through. Aren't you glad that he don't leave you in, but he leads you through the valley of the shadow of death? There's no stopping place there. He don't just lead you into, he leads you through the valley of the shadow of death. That means the valley is not permanent. It means the valley is is something that is not continual. That valley is that place that he's going to lead me through. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. Notice what he said, I will fear no evil. Why? Thou art with me. Thou art with me. Whether it be the valley of the shadow of death Or the valley of difficulty. Or the valley of obstacles or discouragement. Whatever the valley may be. And beloved, listen, if you're saved by the grace of God, There are plenty valleys to go through. There are plenty of valleys you've got to walk through. Being saved does not make you immune from difficulty. The lie of the prosperity gospel is that if you're saved, there are no more troubles. But yet look at dear Job. And here was a man who was stricken with troubles, the good Lord, troubles abundant, and yet he was right where God wanted him to be, doing right what God told him to do, and and and even God's own testimony was there's not another man like him. So, yes, there are troubles. Yes, there are valleys. David, the sweet psalmist of Israel, would say, I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. There was a valley. There were valleys that we've all got to face and go through. But aren't you glad you're going through? And you're going through because of his presence being with you. I shall not want for protection. Listen, my friend, there's not a valley deep enough to swallow you up so long as he's with you in it. There's not a valley that is so difficult in nature that his presence will not carry you through. Why? Because he's the Lord of every valley. He's not only God of the mountaintops, he's God of the valleys as well. He rules in the valleys like he does in the mountains. The height or the depth does not make no matter to him. He's Lord over all of that. And thank God for such a Lord. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. How faithful the Lord is to be with his people. In fact, Hebrews 13 teaches us that Jesus said, I will never leave thee. He said, I'll never leave thee. I'll never forsake thee. Never. What a promise we have from the Lord. You say, but preacher, I want something more substantial. You can't get anything more substantial than the promises of God. God 's promises are bedrock to stand on. You can't get anything stronger than that promise. He said, I'm with you. I'm with you. May the Lord help us to get a hold of that. May he grip our hearts with the reality that he's with me. He's with me. Mr. Wesley's favorite psalm, I believe, was Psalm 46. It's the God with us psalm. God is with us. And as he lay dying, he said, Best of all, best of all, God is with us. That's best of all. That's best of everything. See, there's not a valley so deep, and there's not a mountain so steep, and there's not a difficulty so uh so o opposing and and so imposing that that God's presence cannot get us through. He's the God who carries his children along. He's with us. He's with us What a difference it makes when you're traveling in the right company. Changes everything. When you realize who's with you. Oh, listen, you're not alone. You'll never be alone. He's with you. He's with you in that valley. And friend, when you go through the valleys of life, you learn that there is one who sticks closer than a brother. And the nature of the valley does not alter the nature of the God of the valley. And he remains the same. There are valleys you go through that that are different. Uh as you live there's all sorts of things come along and the valleys change and they're various, but aren't you glad God doesn't change He said, I am the Lord and I change not. He's Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, today, and forever I'm glad we can hold to that unseen hand through every valley of life and know this: he's with me. Thou art with me. You know, sometimes we give too much credit to the enemy. Well, I think we do. I think sometimes we focus so much on the intimidation that the enemy's sending forth that we forget who's with us. He's with us. He's with us. Oh, listen, the protection of God is very real. I shall not want for protection. Doing the will of God and following the Lord does not mean there'll be no difficulties. When you follow the Lord, sometimes He'll lead you right into a fight. He'll lead you right into a head-on collision. Study those Old Testament prophets. My goodness, you talk about people that were hated and opposed. Look at Jeremiah. That man would not have lived had God not mercifully protected him. Many wanted his head. Many wanted him to die. But may I say to you that no matter what they put him through, God was with him and got him through. And he'll do the same for you. He'll do the same for you. He again is the Lord who does not change. How faithful God is to protect his own. See, his presence is what the enemy fears. It's not near you. It's the Lord. It's the Lord's presence. I know I've told you this, very crude illustration of what I'm trying to say. But I remember as a little boy, we had a trailer park, a mobile home park across the way. My buddy and I were in a dirt clod fight with the kids in the park. There's a hedge that separated us and we had a good pile of dirt clods. If you don't know what a dirt clod is, A dirt clot is what happens when they plow a piece of ground, turns them up. Best throwing instruments you can find And we were tossing them back and forth in a very unfriendly manner. And uh one of the smallest boys in that bunch got hit with a dirt plug that had a rock in it and it cut his eye, cut him right here under his eye. And he started crying and man those bigger boys, they got mad. And so they decided they were going to do a number on me and me and my buddy, we weren't just young fellows. And so they went home and they came back in just a few minutes and they had pipes and chains and two -fours with nails driven in them. And buddy, they were going to do us in. They were going to teach us a lesson. And I told my buddy, I said, we don't have enough dirt cloths to pin this off, buddy. We're in trouble. And we sort of valiantly were shaking hands and saying goodbye. They're just boys. And I heard the screen door. Now I didn't think anybody was home. Daddy was at work, mom was at work. I didn't know my brother had come in for some reason. I still don't know what he'd come in. But he opened the screen door. Now my big brother was my big brother. He's a big brother. Big in size and every other way. And I remember when he opened that door, he said, Hey, what are you boys doing? And those fellas across the way, oh Mr. Groups, we're not doing anything. I I said, no, hey, Eddie, they're here for us. What do you mean they're here for us? Buddy, when he came out of the house they ran like rats with their tails on fire. You talk about taking off. You say, what'd you do? We got up on top of the wood pile and we were saying, Yeah, that's what we thought. You better run like that See, it wasn't us that they were afraid of. I want you to get this, please. It was not us that they were afraid of. It was the one that was with us. Hey, every once in a while the enemy will take off. Why? Because he's afraid of the one that's with us. He that is with us is greater than he that is against us. Greater is he that is within you than he that is in this world Get a hold of that, dear Christian. There's a protection that comes from the Lord. The Lord is with us. When we walk through the valley of the shadow of death, Yea, I'll fear no evil. Why? The Lord is with us. And look, he goes on to say, Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Thou preparest the table before me, I love this, in the presence of mine enemies. Right under the nose. God's protection is such that the devil don't derail his plans. We sometimes again think that the devil is omnipotent. He is not. Beloved, listen, it is God alone who's omnipotent. He is all powerful. He's the one who's all-knowing. He's the one who's omnipresent. He's everywhere. So as we go through this walk of life and face our valleys and face our battles, And face our difficulties and face our struggles and face our obstacles and all that goes along with being a Christian. Know this, he's with me, and he'll care for me right in the presence of my enemies. And often God will use the wrath of man to praise him. He'll use the very tactics of the devil to bring glory to his great name. When I study the book of Ruth and I read about how God intervened there again in the presence of the enemies. When I read Esther, and I see this wicked Haman, and he's wanting to destroy the Jewish people, and especially focusing his hate on this man Mordecai. And he builds these elaborate gallows looking for the day that he's going to see uh Mordecai's feet swinging high on those gallows and know that his troubles are gone. Little did he know. The very thing he built for for the one he hated was the thing that was going to take his own life. And sometimes the the Lord will take the very thing the devil meant to destroy you with, and he'll turn it around and make it work for your good. Look at Calvary. Don't you know the devil thought he had scored the blow when Jesus said it is finished? Don't you know he thought that he had won the day when Jesus bowed his head and gave up the ghost? Little did he know that the death of Christ would be the defeat of himself, it would be the destruction of the devil. The resurrection would prove that he lives, that hell could not hold him, and the devil could not contain him That he rose victorious and he lives. Listen, brother, sister, know this. He will protect you. I shall not want for protection. I shall not want for protection. Quickly notice with me next. I shall not want for joy. Look what the Bible goes on to say. Thou anointest my head with oil, my cup. runneth over. What's he talking about? This anointing the head with oil. It's a picture of the ministry of the Holy Ghost. The ministry of the Spirit of God. And by the way, don't do not minimize the ministry of God's Spirit. God's Holy Spirit. Sometimes we Baptists get so baptist we don't believe the Bible. But in the Bible is a clear teaching on the Holy Spirit of God. And he has a marvelous ministry in the lives of God's people. He ministers to and through. Listen, he's working in our hearts. He's very real. He's there to enable, he's there to edify, he's there to encourage, and and and so many other ministries, the Spirit of God is there. And as we see that head anointed with oil, and then he goes on to say this, my cup runneth over. You see, only the Spirit of God can put joy in the midst of tears. Only the Spirit of God can put strength right in the middle of weakness. Only the Spirit of God can put hope in the middle of hopeless. I mean, he's the one. It's his ministry. It's the working of the Spirit of God. I shall not want for joy. Listen, friend, the Spirit of God will never leave the people of God. And His ministry is going to be carried out right to the very end. Look with me again. He he anoints my head with oil. What a ministry. As the Spirit of God. Now listen, you say who has the Holy Spirit? Everybody who's saved. According to the scripture, the scripture teaches us in 1 Corinthians, if you have not the Spirit, you're none of his. In other words, you're not saved. When you get saved, you don't pray for the Spirit. You don't pray for more of the Spirit. God, the Holy Spirit, comes into the life of everyone who's saved. And he comes in fullness. He comes in fullness. Now listen, how many of you have children? And want to admit it. All right. Okay. You admit you have children. How did you receive those children? Those ch that child was a person, right? And you received that child as a whole person. You didn't get portions of that child. Right? It came as a person. And all of its personality and all that it all that it was, it was a total package. I'm not pleased, I'm not trying to be disrespectful of the Godhead, but the Spirit of God is the whole package. When you got saved, he came in in entirety. He lives in each one of us who are saved. You have the Holy Ghost. Now the great question is, does the Holy Ghost have you? Does He have all of you? Does He have all that there is to have of you? Is He in control of you? There's where the real question is: not do you have the Holy Spirit, but does the Holy Spirit have you? But He anoints my head with oil. Oh, listen, as a child of God, I shall not want. For the joy of the ministry of the Holy Spirit in my life, He's there. He's there working. And here's what I do know, he that hath begun a good work in me and in you will perform it until the day of Christ Jesus In other words, what he certainly say, preacher, I don't know what he's doing. That don't mean he's not doing something. I can't see it. I I I can't understand it. It don't make a lot of sense to me. That doesn't mean that he's not active. I firmly believe God's always active. God's always active. He's always doing something He's always up to working in our lives and in our hearts, and he's doing things. And again, as he anoints our head with oil, our cup runs over. There's an abundance. Only a Christian, only a Christian can have joy with a crushed heart. Do you know that? Only a Christian can have joy when they're shattered on the inside. You know why? The Spirit of God within you. It is the Spirit of God who carries out that overflowing ministry. Don't you love what Jesus stood and cried that day, that great day of the feast, that last day? And he said very clearly that if we believe on him, out of his innermost being shall flow what? Rivers. Rivers. Plural. Speaking again of that abundant ministry of the Spirit of God. That he's he he 's he's not a little trickle He's not just a mere brook. He's represented as rivers. An abundance. He is the God of abundance. And please know this, that the ministry of the Spirit of God is only straightened and only restrained as we restrain him. What a beautiful picture is here. I shall not want for joy. The Spirit of God doing his great work in our lives. Then notice with me quickly next, I shall not want for companionship. Look at what verse 6 says, Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. You see, the goodness of God and the mercy of God have been on your trail from the beginning and will follow you all the way home. You could stand tonight if you if you are observant and and you could say goodness has been on my trail. Mercy's been on my trail. Look, sometimes that goodness and mercy's been hidden, but that doesn't mean it's not present. It's there. About this time of year, maybe a little later, Elizabeth and I were walking on the marsh, and I noticed every time I stopped I heard s I heard two more steps That's strange. And we'd walk along, and when I finally caught on to it, I I said, I said, Elizabeth, let's walk real fast and then stop. And then I caught three or four more steps. I said, there's something following us. And she said, really? I said, yeah, something's following us. I said, watch this. Take a few more steps. Shh , you can hear it. And it was a big female coyote. She must have had a den around there somewhere. And she was following us, making sure we were leaving her territory. I didn't see her. I'm pretty sure I know where the the den was, and and she had probably followed us at least a couple of miles walking back out the road. And I thought, you know, how many times have I walked through here and she's been right there and I didn't even know it? Here she is following me all along. Hey, I've got news for you. Goodness and mercy has been on your trail. Every once in a while you hear a rustle in the leaves, but most of the time you're not aware. But the goodness and mercy of God's been on your trail. You're going to find out one day that you've had companions along the journey that you were not aware of. Like that young servant who said to the prophet, Master, Alas, what shall we do? He said, Lord, open his eyes. They that be with us are more than they that be with them. And when he opened his eyes he saw the hills full of the chariots of God, and he said, I'll tell you what, there's no reason to be afraid. Why, goodness and mercy has been on our trail. Dear little Christian, don't hang your head and feel sorry. Don't think for a moment you're missing out on anything. Don't get the notion that, oh, I'm just a poor little Christian trying to make my way through this world. You know this. Goodness and mercy has followed you all the days of your life. Goodness and mercy has been on your trail. Every once in a while you get a glimpse of God's goodness. You know I was thinking about the goodness of God. The psalmist said he crowns the year with it. Goodness is a crown. The Bible says God's mercies are new every morning. I mean, look, you face the year with the goodness of God, you face the morning with the mercies of God Friend, you're in a good way if you're saved. You're in a good way if you belong to the Lord. Goodness and mercies followed you. Don't chalk things up to coincidence. Unbelief says, what a coincidence. Unbelief says, isn't that amazing? Unbelief says, imagine it working out like that. I was talking to someone recently and they were at a place where where the right person at the right time just happened to be there for that particular moment and to meet that particular need. And it it had uh a hundred things had to come together for that to happen. You say, What is that? Goodness and mercy. Goodness and mercy. It's not accidents, it's not coincidence, it's not happenstance, it's just not the universe. Listen, you know what it is? It's goodness and mercy on the trail of God's people There's a companionship that we have. I shall not want for that. I shall not want for that. I mean from the big things to the little things to the unknown things. Here's what you can rest in. The Bible says, goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. All the days of my life. Aren't you glad for that? Not just my early days or my latter days or my middle days or whatever days, my good and my bad days, but all the days of my life, every day of my life. for the entirety of my life. The goodness and mercy of God. Friend, listen, as you get older, don't think for a moment, God will forget you. Don't think for a moment that God will say, Well, I've walked with you this far. You've got to make the rest of the way home by yourself. No, no, goodness and mercy. Goodness and mercy shall follow us all the days of our life. All the days. What a promise from God. What a place to pillow your head. What a truth this is. And I can say, Lord, I shall not want. Your goodness and mercy is going to follow me all the days of my life. And then finally, notice this. I shall not want for home. I shall not want for home. Why? I shall look watch this. I will dwell. In the house of the Lord forever. I will. No doubting about that. There's no disputing over that. I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. You know something, as a child of God, we've got a home we've never been to. We've got a home that we've never stepped foot on. We've got a home that's waiting for us, that's more home than any home we've ever had. Some of God's people live in the same home they've been in. I mean I I know people that were born in a particular home, they lived in that home, they stayed in that home, and they died in that home. And they went to heaven from that home. But however much home that home is, it's not home like the home you're going to. It can't be. We're just pilgrims and strangers. We're like Abraham. We're looking for a city whose builder and maker is God. Thank God we've got a home awaiting us. There is a home. It's our real home. Well some like uh you know, you may have have been thrown from pillar to post, they say. And and you know, homes a it's a strange word 'cause you You know, this isn't home and that's not home and this really isn't home. And I find the older I get, there's really no place that's home except uh you know it's sort of the the place where you are, but but the reality is I do have a home And that home's not here, that home's over yonder, and the promise of God is I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. And here's the good news, as I'm making my way home, I've got a home in the Lord. Because he's my refuge. God is my refuge. You made your home in the Lord. It doesn't matter where you may roam or where where where you may find yourself. That place is is not what's important. The person is. The person is. Have you ever noticed how it's not necessarily where you are, but it's who you're with that makes the difference? Not so much the the the where. I mean the where 's oftentimes just uh it's not that important. It's the who makes the home It's those those individu that's that those individuals. That's what that makes that home. And aren't you glad there's a place where all the people of God one day are going to be? Not just a few, or not just uh uh uh the the odd one here and there, but all of God's people will be home. All of them. There'll not be one missing Even that precious little group of people that have been so wrongly taught that they could never know for sure they're saved, they're going to be shocked one day Those precious people are going to be shocked because if they truly trusted in Christ, they may have doubted and thought they lost it, but the good news is if they belong to Him, they're forever His, and they'll be home too. They'll be home too. And all of God's little children are going to be home. Many of you have people there already awaiting on you. They're home Their home, their labors are over, their troubles and trials are past, their difficulties and struggles are gone. Folks listen, I'm not talking about a pepper alley. I'm not trying to cheer you up. I'm telling you the word of God. We've got a home. There is a home awaiting for you and I. This old place uh don't put you tent stakes down too deep. God'll jerk them up. We're not home yet. We're not home. There's a home waiting for you on the other side God help us to get homesick for our real home. Here's old Abraham, he's traveling. He travels, pulls his tent, stays up Travels his whole entire life, one place to the other. He doesn't have a permanent home, but thank God he was looking for it. And when his eyes closed in death, he found it. He realized that the home he was looking for, God didn't build down here, but he built up yonder Jesus said, I go to prepare a place for you. Aren't you glad for that? He's gone to prepare a place for you. Heaven's not a figment of the imagination. Heaven is not just that place that a pie in the sky, religious uh conjob. Heaven is the reality that Jesus said, I'm going to prepare And if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again to receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. Now some of us, I'll tell you, dear brother brother, sister, you be careful about getting too attached to this home. This ain't home. And thank God it's not. Wouldn't it be a tragic thing that if this is as as good as it gets? I'll tell you for the lost world this is as good as it gets. For the unsaved people this is as good as it gets I I I'm telling you, I had a dear foot neighbor, and uh he was in uh World War II and and uh landed there in Normandy and and went through all of that. And I said to him, I said, Mr. Embry I said, sir, you don't want to go to hell. I said, hell's such an awful place. And here's what he said, son, I've been there. And he talked about being there. And I can't imagine the horrors of what he went through. I can't imagine what it was like to be wounded and laying on that beach. He laid there for days and they were actually putting his body with all the dead bodies and he said he moved. And when he moved, they said he's still alive, and they pulled him out And laid him on a stretcher and put him in another place. And then they shipped him over to England somewhere and a and began to care for his body. But here's what he said. He said, I've already been to hell. Boy, that broke my heart. I said, Mr. Emory, you you I I respect what you did. I'm thankful for what you did. I owe you a great debt of gratitude because we're free for what you did. But listen, sir, that doesn't even scratch the surface of the real place called hell. And do you know what hell is? Hell's not a home. Do you know that? Hell is not a home. The Bible teaches us that hell was made for the devil and his angels. It's where men go as intruders. Listen to me. Can you imagine being an intruder for all of eternity? You ever been somewhere you didn't belong, been somewhere you didn't fit, been somewhere you weren't wanted? Man, what a horror. But hell's going to be that magnified by millions. Oh, what a place hell is. But listen, if you're saved by the grace of God, there's no hell awaiting you. There's a home. It's called heaven. And that's where God's people are going. And all of God's children will be there. Every saved soul will be there. Time will no longer separate us. Distance will no longer be a factor. Age will not be factored in or considered. Thank God it's home. It's home. I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. You know what David said? My home's in the Lord now. One day my home's going to be with the Lord forever. My home's in the Lord now. My my home is in Christ. I'm in Christ, and Christ is in me. That's your home spiritually. That's where we're at home. God's people, listen, God's people are at home in the Lord. But thank God there's coming a day we're going to be at home with the Lord. And what's been by faith will one day be by sight. Can you imagine? When you see the Lord, my my my. Absent from the body, present with the Lord. It's what the book teaches. I remember when I got to call about this time of year, not too many years ago, said Dad was gone My brother called me and he said Dad was sitting in his chair and looking out over the valley, sitting in the sunshine. He was cold all the time. He'd loved going to church here, boy. He 'd say, Now that's the oven I like to sit in, buddy. He'd love this. He's sitting there in the sunshine, just looking. Now I went and found the cherry is sitting in. I sat in it. And when I was looking where they said he was is a little church on the mountain right there. Mount Pisgah Baptist Church. Mount Pisgah Baptist Church is where my daddy got saved. My mother had had these cottage prayer meetings for dad because he was so rotten and no good, and they were praying for him to get born again. And they and those cottage prayer meetings, man, he hated them. Daddy couldn't stand them because he'd get under conviction. And finally she got him to go to revival meeting there at Mount Pisgah. And they'd been praying. They'd been in a cottage prayer meeting for about two years in and out of the house. And he got saved. He went to that church and got saved. And I thought here he is sitting in his home. He's looking where he got saved, got ready to go home, and the next thing you know, he is home. He's with the Lord. How good the Lord is. I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Friend, listen to me. If you're saved, you're as good for heaven as if you're already there. It's as uh look here good. Don't you worry being left on the side of the road somewhere. God's gonna get you home. I shall not want for a home. Psalm eighty-four says this, for the Lord God's a son and shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee. Dear friend, listen, are you trusting in him? The Lord is my shepherd, what a statement. But it quickly must be followed with this: I shall not want. I shall not want. I'm glad I have a God. I if I could just say it like this and simplify it , He's enough. He's just enough. It don't matter what the uh equation or what the question or whatever's put up, he's enough. He's just enough. He'll always be enough. He's all I need, like the hymn writer said it more eloquently. He's all I need. But can I say again, he's still just enough He's enough for you to go to work tomorrow. He's enough for you to face your battles. He's enough to deal with discouragement. He's enough to fight sickness. He's enough to to to face life. He's enough to raise your family with. He's enough to look into eternity and long for that place called home. He is enough. Oh, that God would grip our hearts with that. He's enough The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. Let's stand together, please. Heavenly Father, we thank you this evening for the truth.