A little lunch that the lad gave the Lord fed five thousand. And the little witness from the little maid brought about the healing of a great man. And what little you and I give over to the Lord, he takes and does great things with them. And I'm grateful that we serve such a God. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to Judges chapter number eight. There's a verse I want to magnify in your hearing here this evening. It's found in verse number 4, a very familiar verse, but please don't let the familiarity of it rob you of something new or something fresh from the Lord. You know the account here. We're obviously reading about Gideon. And the Bible says something here in verse number four that I believe captures A picture of the Christian life in reality more than I think sometimes we care to admit. But when you find your place, if you'd stand with me, Judges chapter 8 and verse number 4 The Bible says this, and Gideon came to Jordan and passed over. He and the three hundred men that were with him. Faint yet pursuing. Faint yet pursuing. Heavenly Father, we bow our heads just now and we ask again that you would undertake for us Lord, would you please take your word and speak to hearts and and Lord just minister as you see fit. We come and give ourselves to thee afresh and pray that you would accomplish what you desire in each of our lives. Give us ears to hear what the Spirit saith. Fix our eyes upon thee. Lord, for these few moments, separate us from the cares and distractions of life. And Lord, may we just tune in to heaven. Lord, I want to thank you for the privilege that we have to be here tonight, to open our Bibles, and to wait before you. And Lord, I pray you'd help. You'd get the glory, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. And God's people said. Thank you. You can be seated. Again, I want you to notice that verse. The Bible says about Gideon and those three hundred men, they were faint, yet pursuing them. These men were tired. If if I can just say it in plain if you let me say it in my North Carolina v vernacular, they were just plain war out. They're faint. These men had been in a battle. I I'm going to show you a few things I believe, five reasons that I believe that they were faint. But the purpose of this message tonight is not to explain why they were faint. The purpose of this message is what kept them going. How did these men keep pursuing even though they were faint? And I want you to see that. May the Lord help us here this evening. I want you to notice with me, number one, I believe these men were faint because of a reduction of soldiers. A reduction of s of soldiers. You remember the Lord had given Gideon the understanding that he was going to lead a group and they were going to overcome the Amalekites? And so he summons or calls for all of these people who are willing to go to battle, and 32 ,000 show up. Now that's a pretty impressive number. And then the Lord says, Gideon, that's too many. And uh the Lord says, You tell them if they're afraid, you you tell them just to go home And you remember what happens, 22,000 of them decided they would go home. Now I don't know about you, but I I I think thirty-two thousand to ten thousand is uh is enough. I mean I would say right there That's good. Let's stop there. But then the Lord says, Now I want you to give them a command, and I want you to tell them to go down and drink water. And you watch how they drink water, because I'm going to identify a certain group, and those that drink water with uh a a measure of awareness or alertness, I want you to pick those men. And and it came down to three hundred. Now, I'm pointing that out because of this. Oftentimes, it's the reduction of soldiers that often causes us to be weary. Sometimes it's a reduction through sickness, sometimes it's a reduction through death, and and it's reductions are a big part of life. Sometimes Uh the things the Lord takes away. We wonder, Lord, why? And and and and Lord, it it wearies us, but I believe these men were faint because we've got only 300 going into battle. Number two, I believe they were faint because of the reality of battle. You read there in chapter 7 and verse 21, this was a hand-to-hand combat battle. Someone said uh war is only romantic in the movies. There's nothing good about war. Just play nothing good These men, I mean listen, it it says here, they stood every man in his place round about the camp, and all the host ran and cried and fled, and the three hundred blew the trumpets, and the Lord set every man's sword against his fellow. This was a horrifying scene. The reality of battle. And listen, dear brother or sister, the warfare that you and I are engaged in at times is very tough. The spiritual battle is not something that is non-existent. The spiritual battle that you and I are engaged in is often taxing. If nothing else, it's troubling to the flesh. We're battling, of course, the flesh, and we're battling with the world's mindset, and we're battling with a very real enemy. Sometimes that the reality of the battle just makes us faint. I believe there's a third reason that these men were faint, and we see it in chapter 8 and verse number 1. The Bible talks about the rising up of the brethren. In verse 1, we see the men of Ephraim, these are fellow Israelites, said unto him, Why hast thou served us thus? That thou callest us not when thou winnest the fight with the Midianites. And they did chide with him sharply. I mean the men that should have been in his cheering section are the men who are are criticizing what he's just done And they chide with him sharply. Doesn't it sort of take the wind out of your sails when brethren chide with you sharply? When the people that ought to be cheering you on just criticize you again and again. Well we see the rising up of the brethren. And then I believe one of the major things is these men began to realize their limitations. In chapter 8 and verses 4 and 5 it says, They came faint, yet pursuing. And he said unto the men of Sucoth in verse 5, Give, I pray you loaves of bread unto the people that follow me, for they be faint. These men were hungry. Their bodies were tired. I heard a man say one time: sometimes the most spiritual thing you could do is take a nap. Not in church, all right? I know how some of you little rascals think You say, preacher, you said take a nap. I need one, so I'll see you at seven o'clock. Well, please don't do that But in reality, a preacher friend of mine up north, he said, he said one time he was complaining, going on, and the the old pastor who lived down at Tennessee, he said, Listen, go home and eat supper And he said, get all this off your mind and go to bed and sleep and get up in the morning and see if it don't look a little better. Now, sometimes our bodies just get worn out. There's a limitation to our physical being. And Gideon said, hey, these men need bread. They're tired. They've been fighting in the battle. And you know when Elijah wanted to quit. And here's what he said. Now Lord, I'm not better than my father's. Let me die. The Lord didn't honor that request, but he provided him a place to sleep. And he gave him food to eat and let him rest and get over it. You know why? Because he realized his limitations. Not one of us are machines. We might think we are, and you know, there was a day if you'd told me that I would have laughed in your face and said, look, I've got endless energy. But something happened. I don't know if it was Pastor and Marinath the Baptist Church or just age, but something has happened to my body. I mean, I don't have endless energy as I once had. But here's what I do know. I do know that all of us, no matter what we think or what we believe, we all have limitations And your physical man affects your spiritual man more than you and I often realize And so we see here that they had realized limitations. And then let me give you the fifth reason I believe these men were faint, and I believe it was because here in verse number five, the refusal of help. He said to those men, in Sukath, give us, I pray, loaves of bread unto the people that follow me. And verse six says, And the princes of Sukath said, Are the hands of Zeba and Zalmuna now in thine hand that we should give bread unto thine army? In other words, hey, you don't have those guys yet, so get back with us when you catch them. And then they go to another uh group of, and these are brethren, these are I believe these are part of those tribes that stayed on the far side of Jordan. And to Newell, he went and says to them, likewise, and they answered him just like the men of Suchath answered. And they said, Hey, we're not going to help you. When you get those men, when you catch those men, we'll come back and we'll consider it. The the truth is they didn't believe they would could do it. They didn't believe those three hundred men were going to be able to conquer these mighty Amalachite princess. I like Gideon 's reply. He said, I'm going to take some forms and I'm going to tend to you when I come back. Alright? I'm just giving you my own uh Truth here out of that text. And uh he did, actually he did. Well, after he got those two, those, those men, he came back and he dealt with them. But the point is, these men refused to help How many times have you turned to a friend and said, Hey, I need help, and they had none to offer? How many times have you said, Hey, I really need some help, and there was just no human help to find? And oftentimes the refusal of human help brings us to a place that we're faint. But I don't want to emphasize that because the reality is they were yet pursuing. Here is a miracle. These men had every reason to quit, but they did not. They had every reason to stop, but they wouldn't stop. I heard Brother Clarence Sexton talk about the days that he played football, and he wasn't a very big man, and I didn't realize That he actually in that little hometown he was quite the football star. He was quite fast and But his coach said in later years that what made him a great player was his refusal to give up He had pneumonia on an occasion and showed up to play. He said he was so unable to breathe that he thought he would pass out from the lack of oxygen, so he took Vic's vapor rub, stuffed it in both nostrils. put a big chunk of it in his mouth and said it felt like it opened him up enough to breathe so he could finish the game. And he actually scored the winning touchdown. Gideon said, We're tired, but we're not going to quit. We're weary in this thing, but we're not weary of this thing, so we're not quitting. I believe somewhere in our Christian lives we've got to come to the place that we say, by the grace of God, I will not quit. I may be weary and I may be worn out and I may be tired, but Lord, if you'll just keep me going, I'll keep going. I'm faint yet pursuing. And here we see Gideon doing that. You say, preacher, how'd he do it? That's what I'm interested in. How'd he do it? How did he do it? Was it mere determination? Was it a matter of grit and gall? Was it a matter of just saying I'm gonna hang on and hold on and hold out? How many of you know that there's even a limit to that? You can determine all you want to, but there comes a day your determinations have a have an end road. They have a finish line, and you can't go beyond that. But oh, Gideon had much more. You say, what did he have? I want to give you that deceiving as the message. Number one, if you're making notes, I want you to notice what I believe kept Gideon and those 300 men going. Number one, he had a meeting with God. He had a meeting with God. Would you go back a couple of chapters in chapter number six? And go down with me to verse number eleven. Verse 11 says, There came an angel of the Lord and sat under an oak which was at Ophrah. And I want you to notice there, Gideon's threshing wheat, and read on down verse 12. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him and said unto him, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. You know, a lot of times we make a lot out of the fact that the Lord called him a mighty man of valor. And we say, oh, Gideon was not a mighty man of valor. He's over there hiding behind the wine press. He's threshing his wheat in a place of secrecy. He is afraid. But the the the point of of what's going on here is not the man Gideon. The point of what's happened here is that the Lord God had met with Gideon. And by the way, we're all like Gideon apart from him. We all are weak and limited and perhaps hiding away, but when the Lord shows up, it makes all the difference in the world. Gideon had a meeting with God. In that meeting there was an appearance. We read here in verse 12, the Lord appeared. In verse 13, there were questions that were asked. Gideon said Notice that, Lord, if the Lord be with us, why then is all of this befallen us? How many of you have trouble sometimes reconciling God's promises with your reality? And you ask the question, Lord, if you're with us, why this? Well, the truth of the matter is that the Lord is with us regardless of our reality or circumstances. And he said, Where be all his miracles, which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not the Lord bring us up from Egypt? See, he's got questions. He's asking questions. And then I like what verse 14 says. And the Lord looked upon him and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites, have not I sent thee? Here, God's given him ability. And I'm going to say more about this later, but here Gideon is given a command, and that command comes with God's enabling. And then if you read on there, you'll read that Gideon brought an offering and he put it before the Lord. And verse 22, and when Gideon perceived that he was an angel of the Lord, Gideon said, Alas O Lord God, for because I have seen an angel of the Lord face to face. And the Lord said unto him, Peace be unto thee, fear not, thou shalt not die. Then Gideon built an altar there unto the Lord. You say, what happened to Gideon there? Gideon met with God Now, listen, you and I will not have a meeting such as this. For you and I to expect God to come from heaven and do what he did for Gideon is to anticipate something quite wrong. God doesn't communicate in that fashion anymore. We've got a Bible, 66 books. We have truth that God reveals himself through. But God will still meet with his people. You see, what Gideon did, I believe, was meet with the Lord Jesus. He was concerned about dying. He didn't seem just a regular angel. He seemed the Lord Jesus. Old Testament appearance of Christ. And it was here that he realized, hey, I've seen the Lord. And what a difference this made in his life, as we're going to see on in a little bit. Christian, can I urge you to make sure that you have meetings with God? May I urge. I'm not talking about just doing devotions. I'm not talking about just reading your Bible. I'm not talking about just praying. I'm talking about l tarrying and staying until you know you've been with the Lord There's nothing that will keep you going like just meeting with the Lord. I believe the swift move of the devil is to keep us all so busy we don't have time for such a meeting. We enter into our prayer closet in a hurry, we open our Bibles in a rush, and we try to do everything we do with the nervous anticipation, I've got to get to the next thing. Every one of us, including me, are guilty. The reality is the pace of the culture is go, go, go, now, now, now. Hurry, hurry, hurry. If you don't believe that's the attitude of this age, you stay three milliseconds longer at a light when it changes green and watch what the reaction is. I believe if some people had bulldozers, they'd push you out of the way and run on. In a hurry, where are you going? I don't know. Don't really have anywhere to go. But they're in a hurry. And hurry is death to spirituality. If you get in a hurry trying to meet with God, you're not going to get anywhere with God. God doesn't hurry and He don't want you to hurry. Yeah, but preacher, I've got to be at work at such and such time. I've got an amazing answer for that. Get up earlier. Start earlier. I I I I just I I just don't have the time. My my friend, listen, we've got time for everything that we deem important. What I'm saying is have a meeting with God. Have a meeting with God. It'll change your life. Well, preacher, how do I meet with God? Well, as I've already said, you meet with him on the pages of his word. He talks about Jesus said the scriptures testify of me. The revelation of the Lord comes through the pages of truth, and as we get into our Bibles, we begin to see, I appreciate what our brother testified this morning about reading his Bible, and the Lord said, read more. And he read more and he read more. It wasn't to the point of reading more, it was reading until God spoke to his heart Learn to read your Bible, not to finish three chapters or five verses or whatever it may be. Read until you get something from heaven. When you meet with God, dear church, when you meet with God, He'll put fuel, and I don't mean this disrespectfully, but when you meet with God, He'll put spiritual fuel in your tank that'll keep you going. And we can't run. Listen, you can't run on fumes. Gideon had a meeting with God. This meeting changed his life. He builds an altar. First altar we find Gideon building. And as Gideon built, by the way, you go back and study these altars that are built in the Bible, and every one of them were life-changing places for people that built them. Everybody who built an altar left that altar much different than the way they came to that altar. The altar is the place where we're to be altered and and I'm not talking about an altar in the front of the church. We use our altar, thank the Lord. I hope we always do. But I'm talking about that place where you meet with God. It may be your couch. It may be your your your sofa. It may be the front seat of your car. I don't know where that meeting place is, but wherever it may be, make sure that you've got a place where you can get alone with God. And when you get alone with God, let God get a hold of you. I believe Gideon kept going because somewhere back there in the not too distant past he had been with the Lord, and Gideon understood the Lord is with us. And we may be worn out physically, we may be hungry, we may feel like we can't take another step, but God met with me. And I'll tell you, like Elijah of old, you can go forty days in the strength of that meat if God meets with you. My pastor used to say, young men learn to meet with God in such a way that you'll never be content without it. We need to meet with God. You say, preacher, how'd I go on? I'm wore out. I'm weary. My tank's running empty. Have a meeting with God. Have a meeting with God. Would you let me testify for a minute? Man, the last few months it seems like I have run fifty ways at once. And I'll tell you, my tank was getting in tent. Yesterday I said, you know what? I'm not coming out of this room. I'm going to open my Bible. I'm going to stay here. And Lord, I don't care what happens or what comes. I'm going to stay here till you meet with me. Well, I'll tell you it makes a difference. It'll it listen, the Lord can do more for you. You say, Well, I'm gonna call my friend. How many of you have ever called a friend and say I need some encouragement. Time it was over, you wanted to hold hands and jump the bridge together. Maybe you don't have friends like that. I got a few. But the reality is, my friend, what I need, you can't give it to me. As much as I love you, let me tell you something. What you need I can't give to you. It's not in my hand to dough it out. I wish I could. I wish somehow or another I could open the top of your head and pour in spiritual fuel in your tank, but I can't do it. But there's a God in heaven who strengthens his own. He gives power to the thing. He that hath no might, he increaseth strength. You need to have a meeting with God. You need to have a frequent meeting with the Lord. I'm glad, my friend, we can begin our days in the presence of the Lord. We can continue throughout the day meeting with God. We can end our day meeting with the Lord. The important thing is that we have a meeting with God. Gideon had a meeting with God. Number two, I want you to notice quickly, Gideon had a mandate from God In verse 14, it says, The Lord looked upon him and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites. Have not I sent thee? You ever thought about what God told Gideon here? He gave him a mandate. It's interesting, first, the consideration. He looked upon him. Ponder that a minute. You ever ever have anybody size you up You ever go to go to help somebody somebody one time? They said, I I want to help you. They said, I'm going to help you. And I looked at them, I looked up and down, I thought, Ain't going to be much help. The Lord looked on him. You know what he saw? He saw a weak man. He saw a man with all the infirmities of any other man. He saw an individual whose frame was dust, but aren't you glad there's a God in heaven who knows all my flaws and yet he still calls? He knows that I'm made of dust. He knows my frame. He knows my frailty. He knows how fragile I am. But yet he says, I've got something for you to do. He looked upon him. And then he gave him this command, go. You notice the Lord's commands are often very simple in one word. Go. Get in, go. What do you mean go? I I don't know which way to go. What just go, just go. I'm gonna go with you. I've got something for you to do. And dear Christian, you and I need to hear the voice of the Lord say to you and I, go. Oh, he's made a consideration and he's given a command. Has the Lord not given us the command to go into all the world and preach the gospel? Has our Lord not given us the command to go and to follow him? We see not only did he have a command, but he had a commission. Look at this commission. Have not I sent thee? Get in, I've sent thee. I want you to see that he had heaven's orders and divine resources. He had heaven's orders and divine resources. An army can only progress as far as its feet and its belly will carry it. If you don't provide food and nurse, if you don't provide shoes, if if if you don't keep them physically able, they can't go forward. And many of the battle strategies of the past were directed at stopping the flow of supplies. Because it's supplies that give strength and make that army victorious. And the devil knows that you and I can only go forward as we're supplied with the Lord's strength And so he's going to attack at that point. But notice this, this mandate from the Lord meant that Gideon was marching not under his own orders, but he was marching under heaven's orders, and he was going forward with heaven's resources. God said, Get him, you go, and I'm going to go with you. You go and I'm going to provide. Reminds me of the children of Israel walking through the the the wilderness, and even though they were backslidden in a in a state of backsliding They were not being obedient to the Lord. They were there because they wouldn't go into Canaan land. But yet what did the Lord do? He provided a pillar of fire by night and a cloud by day. And he gave them food and water out of the rock. He gave them manna from heaven. He made their shoes endure. You know what he did? He made sure they had heaven's resources. And can I remind you this evening that if you're saved by the grace of God and you're trying to follow the Lord, you might be worn out. But know this: you've got resources in heaven already issued coming your way. God provides for his own. And you know something? These men thought we won't make it another step, and God said, Oh yes, you will These men thought they wouldn't make it another battle, but God had already ordered it to be so and given them a mandate from heaven. Know this. Know this. God's decrees are as good as done. And man may be frail and fail the Lord, but the Lord doesn't fail men. His resources are rich. His resources are inexhaustible. You ever feel ashamed of having to ask the Lord to help you again? Lord, I just ask you, I I hate to do it again, Lord, but I just need help. I used to feel awful guilty about just always saying, Lord, I need help until I realize that's that's all I can do. That's what I've been commissioned to do. That's what I've been instructed to do. I need the help of the Lord. It's when I think I don't need the help of the Lord that I'm in real trouble. So we see that he marched forward under a mandate. These men had a mandate from God. I'm glad the Lord said something about the church. He said, I will build my church. And my friend, I want to remind you something. That is a mandated decree from God, and it will get done. No matter how weak and frail we may feel, God's mandates are accomplished by his mighty power. I want you to see quickly number three. I believe Gideon kept going because he had a meeting with God. I believe Gideon was able to keep going because he had a mandate from God. I believe Gideon was able to keep going because of the mighty Spirit of God. Look in chapter 6, verse 33. Then all the Midianites and the Amalekites and the children of the East. Now this thing's swelling. This this army's growing. were gathered together and went over and pitched in the Valley of Jezreel. They were setting up camp, getting ready to do battle. And I want you to notice that as they assemble and as they gather and the multitudes come in, verse 34 says, but The Spirit of the Lord came upon Gideon. And he blew a trumpet. And Abbeyzer was gathered after him. Now listen, you say, what's going on here? God was doing something. The multitudes of the enemy had gathered together. Can I just say this? The devil don't fool with something he already controls. He fights what gives him trouble. And my friends, if you're you're feeling the resistance, you just rest assured God's doing something. That vast array, that vast multitude, here they are, they're all gathered together, and they're ready to do battle. But not only do I see the multitudes, I see the mercy. Notice God butt in. It says, but God stepped in and said, Oh, that enemy thinks they're going to overrun my people. That enemy thinks they're going to put them out of business. They're going to silence them. We're talking about an innumerable army here, a group of individuals well capable of running over little Israel and putting them out of existence. But God steps in. And you know, if I just look at this thing from a human point of view, I'd be very discouraged right now. If I look at the church and the state of the world and the Christians around me, And I would just kind of view things from that human viewpoint, I would think it looks utterly impossible. We're raising a generation of children that have no respect for God or no regard. We're raising, in fact, we've raised several generations now of children like that who have been taught that they're nothing but but glorified animals, and we wonder why they act like they do. We're watching a whole generation that have been taught to rebel against authority, and my friend, my wicked heart doesn't need help being a rebel. I'm born that way. But yet we feed and we fuel that fire. And my friend, I look around me and see our world coming apart at the hinges. And I have to say humanly speaking it looks impossible. But I'm glad every once in a while God interjects and says, but What happened? The Spirit of the Lord came on Gideon. I want you to notice the mighty power of God was greater than the many enemies of God. God's able, I'm telling you right now, there might be somebody standing somewhere cursing the name of God that God's Spirit could invade that heart, break them down in conviction, and tomorrow they'd be preaching the Christ they despise That's the power of God. That's the mighty Spirit of God. I'm telling you, the mighty Spirit of God can do the impossible. And here he came upon Gideon. Now, remember what Gideon was doing prior to this? He was threshing wheat over behind the wine press. Look what he does after the Spirit of God came on him. He blew a trumpet. You say, well, big deal. That is a big deal. You know what a trumpet was used for? Calling soldiers, rallying soldiers. Get ready for battle. Here is a man that was cowardly in himself, had no courage, was hiding away, but when the Spirit of God came on him, he was a different man. He was not the same man that was over there threshing weak. He's now a new man, a man empowered by the Spirit of God, and it was this man that would lead the charge. I'm just saying to you, my friend, we need the mighty Spirit of God in our lives. Because without him you can do nothing. But I can do all things through Christ which strengtheth me. You need the mighty spirit. Oh, listen, the mighty Spirit of God can work miracles. He blows the trumpet. Oh, what a changed man he was. Anytime God's spirit rests on one, he can no longer be the same. You study your Bible when the Spirit of God comes on a man and enables him, he makes him a new man. He makes him a unique individual He does through that person what cannot be done apart from the Spirit of God. And you know what's lacking in our Christianity today? We don't have a lack of resources as far as Bibles. We don't have a lack of resources. a as far as funds and things, but what we do have is a lack of the mighty Spirit of God. When the church, the early church, was just a we thing, an infant thing And the Spirit of God came upon them. That little band of nobodies, having nothing but God, marched out into an old wicked world, preached Jesus until some of them were put to death, and yet they turned the world upside down because they had the mighty Spirit of God on them. I'm not talking about charismatic foolishness or confusion. That's the devil's counterfeit. My friend, listen, the the Spirit of God doesn't make you act a fool, he cleanses all the foolishness out of you. He's going to do a work in your heart and going to make you like Jesus. He's going to transform you. Uh you say, well, what about speaking in tongues? He'll clean that tongue up. He's not worried about you speaking a new language. He's worried about straightening up the language you got. That's what the Holy Spirit will do. The Holy Spirit will make you bold where you're not bold. When you're afraid, He'll give you courage. The Spirit of God will give you favor and enablement that you just don't have. You ever witness to someone and just sense God helped you do it? I mean you didn't have the words and they were asking questions you didn't know the answers to, but here the Lord came, verse after verse after verse after verse after verse. And and and you you you get almost amazed. It's like you're having out of body. You just say, Is that me? Is that really me? And it's not really you, it is the Lord. The Spirit of the Lord, the mighty Spirit of God. Look at Gideon, see the contrast. Here he is, prior to the Spirit, over there, threshing wheat, afraid of the enemy. Now he's blowing a trumpet saying, troops, let's rally. There's something to be done. God is going to take us into the battle. Oh, may, may God's people Get a fresh enabling of God's Spirit in their lives. May we get, and listen, until you aware you need the enablement of God, you're not going to seek Him for it. May we understand that I people say, well, I'm not a preacher, I'm not a Sunday school teacher. My friend, if you're a Christian, God has given you His Spirit. And His Holy Spirit is to enable you to live your Christian life. And oh, that we would say, God, please help me. Help me to be the Christian on my job. Look, you don't know who's watching you at work You don't know whose life you're going to impact by the words you speak. You don't know what one little witness in some busy store how it's going to make a difference in somebody's life for all of eternity. Our missionary up in the state of Maine. His father was a drunk, Brother Ronnie Bale. He's now in heaven. And yet there were some Christians on his block that got a burden for him and wanted to bring him to the Lord, and so he just knocked on his door. And that man was so enabled by the Lord to be a witness that Ronnie listened. Usually he'd run them off, cuss them out. But he was interested. This man had something to say, and it seemed to be something he had never heard before so clear and plain. And it was through the witness of that man that Brother Ronnie came to be saved. And God began to work in his family's life, and now his son's a missionary, having started uh near a dozen churches in the state of Maine And being used of the Lord, you say, What w what made the difference? Somebody got the Spirit of God. Somebody by the mighty Spirit of God wasn't able to be a witness for the Lord Jesus and made a difference in a man's life. You and I don't know where God's going to take us or what he might do, but my friend, it will require whatever it may be, the mighty Spirit of God upon you. It may be the restraining spirit of God, but God holding your tongue and saying, don't say that, because if you say that, it may cut the ear of that person off, and you'll never get another chance. Maybe that restraining spirit. I don't know what it what it is, but here's what I do know: that we need the mighty Spirit of God. And the Spirit of God came upon Gideon. Now this is Old Testament. The Spirit of God did not feel men like he did in the New Testament or does in the New Testament times of the age of grace. He would come upon them for special service. Samson He's a kid listen I I don't believe Samson was like built I I don't believe he looked like some of these fellas that work out big old bulging muscles I don't think he walked around. In fact, quite honestly, I believe what would have brought more glory to God if he was a little old string bean fella. Just a scrawny little thing. Little old Biddy Arms, you'd think if he if he hurls a rock, he's going to shatter in pieces. But when the Holy Ghost came upon him, the power of God came upon him, he had strength that was supernatural. Backed up to the gates of Gaza and picked them up, iron gates, on his back and ran to the top of the hill and threw them down. Chains couldn't bind that man's arms. It wasn't because he had big muscles, it was because he had a big god. And oh that we could see tonight afresh that, friend, it's not about what you can do or I can do or what kind of power we have. It's about the God we serve that has power to do the unthinkable, the unimaginable, the impossible. That's the kind of God He is. Oh, the mighty Spirit of God came on the man and made a difference. Oh, may each of God's little children, our little Sunday school kids, they need a teacher with the mighty Spirit of God on them. Me and my boy Josiah were talking today about Brother Don Cameron. He's in heaven now. And I miss that man. He was a deacon for many years in the church I pastored up north, and my dear friend, the prayer warrior. He was just a plain man, a common man. He didn't like things that were fancy in fact I told him, I said, you know, your wife might appreciate a car that you don't have to walk home from at least once a month. I mean, come on, get a vehicle that'll get you back and forth. First time the preacher would visit his house, he was a machinist and he had a machine shot in his basement. But they were living in the basement till he could build the top of his house. And it would flood when the snow would start melting. And so he said, You better keep your boots on because we got water in here. And went in there and sat down on the couch and here come a dog bowl floating around. Floated through into the next room, turned around, floated right back. He was content. Didn't bother him at all. God gave him a good wife, I'll tell you that. But nevertheless, he had the mighty power of God on him. He would stand and t he taught our teens. He was, I don't know how old Brother Don was when we went to heaven, but he was our teen. You say, a teen you know teens need young people. I don't believe that. I believe teens need spiritual people. And Don was a spiritual man and he was full of God. And I've watched him stand and weep as he talked to those children, those teenagers from the Bible and said, Hey, you know what? Don't ruin your life like I did. And he'd tell about how he got saved. He would say, Listen, you live for the Lord. I'm telling you, you Sunday school teachers, you need the mighty power of God on you if you're going to make a difference in those kids' lives. You stand up and sing in this choir, you serve the Lord in some way, you go to work tomorrow morning. And you rub shoulders with the world, you need the mighty power of God on you. You need the Spirit of God to so possess you That friend, you won't have to wear a t-shirt that says I'm a Christian. You won't have to carry a King James Bible as big as a coffee table. They'll know, they'll take knowledge, you've been with Jesus. There's something different about you. We need that kind of Christianity resurrected in this late hour. But I want to close with this. I believe these men kept going because Gideon had had a meeting with God , had a mandate from the Lord, he had the mighty spirit of God. But I believe Gideon just couldn't quit because he had received much assurance. Much assurance I'm talking about the fleece in Judges chapter 6 and verse number 36. You remember what Gideon did there. He said, God, if thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said, behold, I'll put a fleece of wool in the floor. And if the dew be on the fleece only, and if it be dry upon all the earth beside Then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said. And it was so, for he rose up early on the morrow, and thrust the fleece together, and wring the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water And Gideon said unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak but this once. Let me prove, I pray thee, but this once with the fleece, let it now be dry only upon the fleece, and upon all the ground, let there be dew And God did so that night, for it was dry upon the fleece only, and there was dew on all the ground. You say, what did he do here? God was assuring him. Now I'm gonna tell you something. You be careful about throwing out fleeces. Be real careful. The devil wet your fleece. You be real careful about saying, Lord, give me a sign. You ought to be saying, Lord, show me from the scriptures. You don't need a sign when you got scripture. Be careful about that thing. But know this, this was in Gideon's day, and he didn't have the Bible like you've got. He didn't have the complete Bible like you've got. But he did. Listen, God said, I want to assure you. So God entertained that request But they didn't end there. Chapter 7, he's getting ready to do battle the next morning. Verse 9, it says, It came to pass the same night that the Lord said unto him, Arise, get thee down unto the host, for I have delivered it into thine hand But if thou fear to go down, go thou with Furah thy servant down to the host, and thou shalt hear what they say And afterward shall thine hands be strengthened to go down unto the host. Then went down with fury his servant unto the outside of the armed men that were in the host. And the Midianites and the Amalekites and all the children of the east lay along the valley like grasshoppers for multitude. And he says down, skip down verse 13, when Gideon was come, behold, there was a man that told a dream unto his fellow, and said, Behold, I dreamed a dream. And lo a cake of barley bread tumbled into the host of Midian and came unto a tent and smote it that it fell and overturned it, that the tent lay long. You imagine them telling a dream like that? A loaf of bread come rolling down the hill and fit hit the tent and made it fall. I've been served a biscuit a time or two that I believe you could take out a window. I don't know if you could knock down a tent. By the way, my wife didn't cook it, so Some of you rebel rousers, don't go get me in trouble after church, okay? But but he said that bread fell down and it it lay along in verse 14 and his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else. Save the sword of Gideon, the son of Joash, a man of Israel, for into his hand hath God delivered Midian and all the host. Now look at the next verse. And it was so when Gideon heard the telling of the dream, and the interpretation thereof, that he worshipped. And returned into the host of Israel and said, Arise, for the Lord hath delivered into your hand the host of Midian. You know what God did? God said, Gideon, I know you. You need assurance. I'm going to give you just a little handful on purpose. I'm going to take care of the fleece and I'm going to attend to that. But just before the battle, I want you to go down there and I want you to hear what the enemy's saying. The enemy is saying Gideon's gonna cook our goose tomorrow. Gideon, God's gonna deliver us into the hand of Gideon. The enemy's saying that, not not not fellow soldiers. It wouldn't mean there's much coming from them. But the enemy was saying this is what Gideon's going to do. This is what God's going to do through Gideon. I'm just saying, God knows who you are, friend. And God is so gracious and kind that he comes along and every once in a while he says, I want you to know something. I'm going to give you a little handful on purpose. I'm going to drop a little handful of grain in your little world so that you'll know I'm God and everything's good and I'm going to take care of you. I'm glad every once in a while God gives assurance. Here's Gideon going along and I'll tell you he couldn't quit. Maybe he's tired and said, I can't do this, Lord, and he remembers that dream He remembers the interpretation of the dream. He remembers that sweet night of worship as he fell on his knees and said, Lord, thank you for letting me hear that. You know I'm scared to death. I'm shaking on the inside, and I just can't do this, Lord. But but you you you made me hear the enemy say what you're going to do. Oh how I want to thank you for loving me that much I'm telling you, he couldn't get over that. He couldn't forget that. And it kept him going. Sometimes I need the Lord just to assure me. A dear evangelist friend of mine said he was driving down the road. He had been fighting hell, preaching out all over the country, and his daddy had not been saved long. He he was unable to read But his wife would read the Bible to him, to his mother, this preacher's mother would read the Bible to her husband, his father And they're riding down the road and he said to him, he said, hey, what's wrong with you? I said, Dad, I'm just tired. He said, I've been fighting this and dealing with that. all this trouble and I don't know if it's worth it or not anymore. He said, I'm just uh this th it's just getting to me. He said his daddy just sat there for a little bit and he turned and looked at him, called him by his first name. He said, you know, son Doesn't it say over there in the Bible somewhere it's going to be okay? He said, you know, my dad didn't quote a verse. He didn't really say anything theologically accurate, but he told me enough to keep me going. He said it was like heaven just open up and pour it in that little truck. And he said, You know, Dad, yeah, it is going to be okay. He said, I know the Lord's going to take care of this. And I've got news for you. Just when you need it most, God knows how to give you some assurance. that all is well. The care of the Lord, the confirmation from the Lord, the continual guidance by the Lord. You know what those are? Those are assurances. Those are assurances. Oh, what a good God we serve. Who remembers we're just flesh and blood, and oftentimes we need a little extra. We need extra assurance and we need that extra comfort and we need the Lord to come by. And boy he does in a thousand ways. Thank God for this much assurance. Gideon couldn't quit. I uh maybe he maybe it crossed his mind, I I just can't go. I'm too hungry, we're too weak, the men are complaining or something. I don't know what he was saying, but here's what I do know. Gideon still had some assurance. The Lord said, through the enemy. I like it when God uses the devil to do his work. Brother Ralph. Brother Ralph used to say all the time, he said, now you Christians don't be out there playing the lottery. He said, gambling's a sin. But he said, now if a lost man goes out here and wins and wants to give me the money, he said I'll take it, because the devil's had it long enough, it might as well be put to good use. I don't know about the accuracy of that. But here's what I do know. I do know this. Oftentimes God will take the devil and use him for his glory. And only God can do that. And when God does that, it assures the heart of God's little children. I love it when Mordecai Is led through the streets by old Haman. I can I bet his lip was so long. He was scratching gravel as he walked along. He was mad. He thought he was going to be on the king's steed. But Mordecai sat there and honored You know what God was saying? Mordecai, it's going to be okay. There might be a mandate for the death of all your people, but there's a God in heaven who w looks after his own. And he can make the devil his servant when he decrees. Be assured. Thank God for the indwelling Holy Spirit. And the inspired word of God. And the tender promises that come in the midnight hour. When God takes a scripture, brings it to your remembrance, says, This is a message from heaven for you. And this, listen, that's meat for the soul and that's encouragement for the heart. I had a man say recently, he said, you know, I came to church, and he said it was funny because everything that I heard in that service, from songs to scripture. We were talking about at home. I said, sir, be encouraged. Because that's not Marinatha, that's not the song leader, that's not the preacher, that's the Lord. And the Lord has given you some assurance. Oh, I appreciate the Lord. Remembering my old weak frame. And saying every once in a while, I know you need reassurance. And he comes along and brings much assurance. Now, what Gideon had I can too. I can have what Gideon had And what Gideon experienced to go on. You and I can too. Dear brothers and sisters, it's no sin to be faint. There's no sin in being faint. There's no wrong in being weary. It's often just the reality that we're card-carrying members of the human race. And that that's sometimes our portion. But there's a God who can help you to yet pursue. Just keep going. Just keep going. Not in your strength, but in his But in his father, I pray you'll use your word