I want you to open your Bibles please to First Corinthians chapter eleven. And when you find your place, I'll invite you to stand, please, 1 Corinthians chapter 11. I'd like to read verse 23, down through, including verse 26. 1 Corinthians 11, verse 23 says, For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you. That the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said , Take, eat. This is my body, which is broken for you. This do in remembrance of me. And after the same manner also he took the cup, when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye as oft as ye drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death till he come. I want you to notice those four words that are said two times in remembrance of me. In remembrance of me. Father, as we bow before you in Jesus' name, we thank you for the holy privilege that's ours to gather in this place and observe this ordinance. Father, we recognize that what we're about to do here tonight is a step of obedience to the Scripture. It's a time of remembrance of the Savior. But Lord, it's an opportunity for us to worship, for we've been bought with a price. Would you please do the work that's needed in every heart? Would you help us, Lord, to see Jesus in a fresh, new way and to be grateful, more grateful, for what's been done on our behalf? Lord, we often sing Jesus paid it all, and all to him I owe. But may our hearts be exercised with that truth tonight. And Lord, I pray you'll accomplish all you desire, save the lost, reclaim the backslidden in heart, strengthen the believer, and make Jesus more precious to each soul. And we'll thank you for what you do. Hide me behind the cross and help me, Lord, please. And Lord, may the Lord Jesus be lifted up in this place, for it's in his mighty name we pray. And God's people said. The ordinance of the Lord's table Is an ordinance given to the church by the Lord Jesus Himself. This is not the making of man. Man didn't make this ordinance up. religious organizations didn't concoct it. The Lord Jesus initiated it on the night before his betrayal and crucifixion and Arrest and so on. Matthew, Mark, and Luke all four, or excuse me, all three record the initiation of this ordinance. The Lord Jesus did what Paul said he told him to do, and on that night, before he was betrayed, the Lord took the bread and he broke it and distributed it. And then he took the cup and he passed it around, and he said very explicitly, he said, Do this, this do in remembrance of me. I want you to think about, by way of introduction, what this ordinance is. I want you to notice first it's a personal ordinance. For Jesus said, do this in remembrance of me. It's a personal ordinance. It's an opportunity for the believer to worship the Lord and to remember the Lord and to recognize the Lord and what He's done in your life in saving you. It's not It's not an impersonal act. It's not a religious motion or exercise. It's a personal ordinance, a personal step of obedience in remembering what Christ did on our behalf. It's also a practical ordinance. By that I mean we're given tokens, we're given these memorials. We have the bread and the cup. And with the bread and the cup come a tangible reminder of the death and the blood that was shed on our behalf. It's something for you and I to see. The Lord knows that we are such creatures that we need something of substance Every once in a while to help us understand these spiritual things that you and I can't necessarily put our eyes on or our hands on, but this is an opportunity to do just that, to bring to a practical level a spiritual work that was done for us on the cross. This is a protective ordinance. Protective in the sense that the Bible says, but here's the condition: when you come to the Lord's table, let a man examine himself. It 's protective in that if we would just take seriously the opportunity that we have to remember the death of the Lord. we would stay pretty much right with God where we needed to be on a consistent basis of some sorts, if nothing else, preparing ourselves to remember the death of the Lord Jesus Christ. Historically, much more was made of the Lord's table than we currently do Historically, the what they called the communion season was a time of great revivals because there would be preaching preceding the Come into the Lord's table that would go on for one to two weeks, and people would examine their hearts and make sure they were right with God. And often the very process of doing that would birth a mighty sweep and revival in the heart of the people and in the heart of the church because they were getting right with God. It is a protective ordinance. Beloved, the Bible teaches us, like the hymn says it best, prone to wonder, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. And every once in a while I need something to say, now get back where you need to be, get back and stay close to the Lord, get back to where you ought to be, and this ordinance is a protective ordinance. But I must remind you tonight that it's also a prophetic ordinance. You'll notice What the Bible says in verse number 26 that as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death. What are those last three words? Till he come. We gather around the table of the Lord with an anticipation of the coming of the Lord of the table. We've come to this table tonight to remember that he died for our sin, that he shed his blood to make us clean. But we do it with one ear sort of turned upward Knowing that at any moment the trumpet of the Lord could sound, and the dead in Christ will rise first. And then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. And I say, even so, come quickly, Lord Jesus. It's a prophetic ordinance. It points to another table, really. The ordinance of the Lord's table points us to another table at which we will gather round. You see, tonight we gather around the table with the memorials of his death. There's coming a day we'll gather around a table with no memorials of his death because he's going to be there alive. There's going to be no remembering of the broken body or the shed blood. There's going to be rejoicing into the eternal union that we have entered into because we will be at the marriage supper of the Lamb. What a table that's going to be, church. Do you realize at that table nobody's going to be absent? Not as so. We sit here tonight and these folk not here. Some are in heaven already, some of our dear people We sit here tonight and there are people who are uh away from the Lord and they're not here. And there there's people that are sick and their bodies hinder them for being able to be here. And there's all sorts of reasons that keep people from this table, but I'm glad to report to you there'll not be an empty chair at the next table. The marriage supper of the Lamb, when we gather around there, all of God's people will be there. And best of all, the Lord Jesus Himself will be there. And the Bible says, Oh, what a day that's going to be. My my But that table, this is a prophetic table, the table of the Lord here. But then I also must say quickly, it is a punishable ordinance A punishable ordinance. The Bible says in verse 29 that he that eateth and drinketh unworthily Eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. Now please understand something The Bible is not saying that you'll lose your soul, that you'll be lost. That damnation is another word for the judgment or chastisement of God It is not that a person who does not come properly to the Lord's table will be lost forever. Oh no. It simply means that it will invite the chastising or the punishing, if you will, of that way of the Lord. Look what it says for this cause. Many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. In the Corinthian church there was so much sin and carnality that the observance of the Lord's table had been profaned. and was continuing to be profaned, and because of that God said, I'm stepping in, and there are people that are weak and sick, and there are people that are dead simply because they have profaned the ordinance of the Lord's table. Verse 31 says, if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. Can I say to you tonight, it's awful good of God. It's awful good of God to give us an opportunity to judge ourselves. I'd urge you tonight to study all the things God implores you to do so that he don't have to. Humble yourselves under the mighty hand of the Lord. Judge yourselves so that you need not be judged. It's a punishable ordinance. But let me quickly go back to that first Statement, the first point, the personal ordinance. And I want you to notice what Jesus said. This do in remembrance of me. Luke is the only one who records it. Luke actually only records it at the distributing of the bread. But we know from what Paul wrote here that Jesus said it to on both occasions, both with the cup and with the bread, he said, this do in remembrance of me. And so can I ask you tonight, what is it that we're remembering? What is it that God's so emphatic about that he does not want us to forget What's so important that God says I want to memorialize it in a an ordinance and I want you to observe it until I come back from the church? What's what's so important or what's so Critical that we remember. By the way, there's all kinds of memorials in the Old Testament. They were to remember the crossing of the Red Sea They were to remember the crossing of the Jordan. They were to erect stone altars. They were to have feast and they were to exercise these ceremonies all so that they would not forget what the Lord has done. And although we do not live under the old covenant, we live under the new. We do not live under the ceremonies and religious uh exercises of the Old Testament. We do have an ordinance that God says, I want you to remember something really important about. I want you to do this, and as you do this, I want you to do it in remembrance of me. I want you to notice first we're to remember the sacrifice of the cross. In verse 23 and 4 we read about that and we're told to use the bread so that we might remember the broken body. But it's interesting to me that as we think about the sacrifice, verse 23 speaks of first the betrayal. It says that the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, He took bread. Luke records for us that in Luke chapter number 22 that his betrayer was at hand. In other words, he was sitting at the table. Now, I want you to think about the mercies of God. Here, the Lord Jesus is going to die for the sins of the whole world, and the betrayer is sitting at the table with the master. whom he will betray. Oh dear friend, if that's not mercy pictured in some of the most beautiful ways that you can I could ever imagine, I don't know what is The Lord Jesus would later give opportunity. Judas would approach him and kiss him, and the Lord Jesus would call him friend. I'm glad I serve such a God that's got a heart full of mercy. For sinners who deserve to be in hell, who already should be there. But my friend, he would still call us friend. There's mercy for me in the Lord Jesus Christ. Not only is his betrayal mentioned, but his broken body. Jesus said, Take and eat. This is my body which is broken for you. Isaiah recorded in verse Or excuse me, chapter 52, Isaiah 52 and verse 14, that his visage, his appearance, his countenance, his person was marred more than any man. He was beaten beyond recognition. He was mutilated beyond what we can even fathom. And friend, I want you to know something. He he he had a body that was broken for you and me. That's the sacrifice of the cross of Calvary. Folks, the cross is not something we just sing about It's not an emblem we just wear around our neck. The cross is where Jesus suffered, bled, and died for your sin and mine. The great sacrifice that was made there defies our exc our descriptions and understanding simply because it was a sacrifice like no other. The broken body of the Lord Jesus Christ is to be remembered, for it was that broken body, notice what he said there, which is broken for you. I don't know why he'd give his back to the smiters, but he did. And I don't know why he would love me enough to to to subject him. By the way, Brother Charlie, he he could have easily got off that old cross. The Lord Jesus was not bound by iron nails piercing his hands and feet. He was not held there out of fear of some Roman soldier or group of guards That would put him right back up if he came down. He had at his command all the forces of heaven. And you can never convince me that all the angels stood and looked over the battlements of glory and said, Just say the word. They stood ready to avenge the blood of the Son of God, and yet he never spoke that word. He yielded himself like a like a sheet 's lead to the slaughter. He was Led. He was led like one who was dumb. He opened not his mouth. When reviled, he reviled not again. What makes a man do that? I'll tell you what does Holy love. Heaven's love. A divine love that you and I, my friend, it ought to melt the most hard, wicked old heart into a a a pool of submission before a holy God and say, why would he love somebody like me in that manner? I don't have the answer to that, but I'll tell you what, I'm rejoicing in the reality that he died for me. The broken body of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then I want you to notice the bread. We're talking about the sacrifice of the cross. That bread is to be taken, and you know, bread is a symbol, you do not get bread without crushing. The grain of wheat must be crushed for the bread to be prepared. There's got to be the kneading of the dough and the and the crushing again of the elements so that the bread can come forth. And then the very breaking of the bread as it was distributed among those disciples is i is a violent exercise, if you will. And then the taking of that bread and putting it in your mouth is there's that crushing and that grinding and that pressing All of this pictures what Christ suffered when he died on the cross. You and I are given a tangible token so that we can hold in our hands and put in our mouths and Think in our minds that just as we're crushing the bread, Jesus Christ was crushed on the cross of Calvary. Dear friend, it was no small thing for Jesus to sacrifice himself. This was a very real thing. It's what it's what our faith is built upon. The sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. Christianity is not a weak Sissified subject. It's tough. It's real world tough. It knows something about sacrifice it. It knows something about the giving up of oneself, Jesus Christ the living sacrifice of God. Listen, dear friend, and this sacrifice should not only be remind we should be reminded it's real, but we need to remember and regard it as a great thing. There are a lot of things that do you good to forget. If you're going to live for God, you better be a good forgetter. If you're an elephant Christian, you want they say elephants don't forget? That's what they claim. I don't know. I don't know no elephants, so I don't know if they forget or not. But here's what a duna. My brother told me a story the other day. He said some handler who had mistreated a young elephant was just recently killed. And he said this elephant had been rescued and it was at a uh a place being rehabilitated and it had been many years previous that he had uh handled this elephant and had beat it and all of that and abused it and he said or they said that when this man walked into that enclosure that elephant immediately recognized him and took vengeance. And I thought, I wonder if he's a Baptist elephant. Because I know some like that. There are things that it would do you good to forget. I don't think we're going to sat in heaven and lick our wounds and talk about how bad it was down here. I don't see that. I see in the revelation of rejoicing in Jesus Christ. I believe all the pain and toil and tears and trouble down here are going to be a distant memory because it don't matter anymore Thank God it's gone. Hallelujah, it's gone. But up yonder he'll be there, and we'll rejoice in who he is and all he's done. But hear me tonight, please. It would do us well to forget a lot of things. But we cannot afford to forget the sacrifice of the cross. If we forget the sacrifice of the cross, we've forgotten the cardinal doctrine of redemption. We have forgotten the foundation of our faith, the truth of the Bible, the reason for the coming of Christ. And the very foundation upon which our soul is saved. We dare not forget what Christ did when he sacrificed himself on the cross. Then secondly, we're we're we're we're remembering something tonight very important, the sacrifice of the cross, but we're also remembering the shed blood of the Savior. The Bible says in verse number 25, after the same manner also he took the cup when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament, my blood. This do ye as oft as you drink it in remembrance of me. Notice that this is the cup of the New Testament, the blood covenant. And listen, you can read over in Hebrews Chapter 11 and on into 12, and you can read about the covenant that was struck by the Lord with the blood of the Lord Jesus. There's a covenant. That means an agreement. A settled, established agreement. Listen, if it just let me take a side track here for a minute. Do you realize that the promise or the covenant God cut with Abraham had to do with the land and had to do with the people? And because God is a covenant keeping God and He's a promise keeping God, that land and that people are still valid And that land still belongs to that people, and that people will still be in that land, and God's not through with that people, and he's not through with that land. Why? Because God made a covenant. And when God makes a covenant, he doesn't go back on it. You and I live in a day where covenants mean nothing. Agreements mean nothing. Let's just be real. I I have come to learn something when you're dealing with companies and what have you. You can have a contract, but that may not mean what you think it means. I'm learning that you might have the need to con have a contract to back up a contract to make sure that contract is kept with the first contract. Right. And men are so low down and rotten and dirty, they have a way to get out of ever agreement you can think of. But listen, we're not dealing with man, we're dealing with God. And when God makes a covenant with his people, he makes a covenant and he keeps it. The Bible tells me that he's made a covenant. He's made a covenant with his blood. And that blood sealed the deal, if I can say it. I'm saying it respectfully, but it sealed the deal. It it made sure that you and I could be saved. When the Lord Jesus entered, those girls were singing, those ladies were singing about it And when they were singing about that blood coming, listen, the Lord Jesus presented his blood to the Father. The covenant was struck, the agreement was made, our souls are secure. Not based on you nor me, but based on what Jesus did when he shed that blood. My goodness, what a what a covenant God's made. Our salvation is not built on shaky grounds like feelings, emotions, and summaries and ideas and man's thoughts. It's fixed on the precious blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I'm glad to report to you that if you're saved, you're under the blood, you're washed in the blood, you're kept this, and the blood of Christ will never be washed away, it'll never be removed, thank God that blood stays. And that covenant stands. We're to take that cup. Notice the blood's cup. We're to take the cup. And the Bible says we're to drink it. That's another way of saying we receive it. Let me be clear here. There's nothing to receive here spiritual. That's juice. Let's see. That's juice and that's bread. Listen to me now. This this year is just juice you can buy at the grocery store. Alright? And nothing magical happens to it? When it goes from my hands to these deacons, and when it goes from those deacons' hands to your hand, and when it goes from your hand to your mouth, there's not a thing in the world that it's the same old juice on the grocery store. Shelf out here? Hear me now, please. There's no transubstantiation. There's no transformation going on in here. It is what it is, and it'll be what it is when it gets inside of you. But it represents something that spiritually took place the moment you got saved, when you receive the Lord Jesus Christ. You received him. You know what he did? He made you his child. That very moment. That very moment I was thinking, what was it? Last night? Yeah, it was last night. I just sat down. I was reading about Paul's conversion And you know every once in a while, you know your own story so well that you take it for granted. I say I'm gonna sit right here until I just think back through all the Lord did for me. I'm gonna just think about how he would would get a hold of a little old boy that went to church somewhere and saved him by his grace. I mean that he would come and I had no notion or or or no tendencies towards God, I had no desire for God, I was lost as anybody else, but God in his mercy. Began to show me my great need for my Savior. And you know Isaiah says that God dwells with that that high and lofty God, He dwells with the broken and the contrite spirit. That's who he dwells with. And I began to think about that, how God broke me and crushed my spirit when he saved me. It was a sobering thing for an eight-year-old boy to realize I cannot go to heaven because my church is a good church. That's religious pride. I'm eight years old. I had it. I would sit but you know and you know why I thought I I went to a good and I didn't think I did go to a good church. I I went to a good church because I heard my mom and daddy say it. Amen. Some of our kids would be a whole lot better off if they quit hearing you complain about everybody you go to church with and talk about how good the God is who gave you the church to go to. Boy, he's I'll tell you something. I began to think about that, and then the Holy Ghost reminded me as an eight-year-old boy, that scared me to death. I'm not going to heaven, I can't go to heaven on a good church. And then I began to think about, I heard my mother and dad had great respect for my pastor, and they said that man preaches the word. And I've seen my daddy lead church mad and he'd let you know he was mad, but he'd say, Listen, the problem's with me, not him. He said, I'm the one that's got to get right, not him. He preached the Bible. God was showing me that I can't go to heaven because my preacher preached the truth. Then began to realize that, hey, I'm not going to heaven because my mom and daddy are going to heaven. They're Christians. They claim to know the Lord Jesus Christ. And I can't you know what God was doing? He's crushing and he was breaking all of that out of me And I'll tell you what I did at the end of that service. I ran to that altar and got on my knees. And I don't know what I prayed, but I do know this. I called on somebody who could do something for me. That nobody else could do. And God showed me mercy. And I received the Lord Jesus Christ. And my sins were immediately washed away. Man, what a difference that made. I remember going home that night. My daddy drove one of those Dodge Club cabs. You remember them? About fifty foot long. It was green. It was that two-tone green that Dodge used to have, and it had a white camper on it. And I remember we sat on the little jump seats in the in the club cab part. I sat on the side where the toolbox was. My sister sat on the other side. where daddy kept his chainsaw and axe and everything. And neither one of them ever left the truck. So you just had to climb over that when you went to church and sat on it. And I was sitting behind my mama , sis Sarah uh it's not Sarah. I'm getting my mama 's disease. She called us all different names Stephanie was uh sitting on the on the other side and and I'll tell you it was all I could do not to cry and I really didn't know why I wanted to cry but I was just so joyful in my little heart that something had happened Now I'm not telling you you've got to shed tears to get saved. I'm just telling you what the Lord did for me. And I remember sitting there and and and uh I I you know I was raised like some of you were raised by a daddy who said, now if you're crying, I'm gonna give you something to cry for. So you didn't cry in front of him. I was trying my best to keep it in, and I was glad when he said, I'm going to pull over at the station and get a little gas so we can get home. And when he got out, man, I couldn't hold it no more And my sweet mother turned around. She said, You sick, honey? I said, No, Mom, I got saved. She said, Well, that's wonderful And and then dad come back in and I hadn't got my composure yet and I'll never forget. He said, What's wrong with you boy? Like that. And I was like, Well, do I tell him? I said, Daddy, I got saved And my daddy He put his head down and I seen tear come out of his eye The only time I'd ever seen that happen was when he read his Bible at three o'clock in the morning sitting at the table praying. And he said, Thank you, Lord. Amen. And he didn't say much more because I'm pretty sure he couldn't have said a whole lot more and kept his emotions in check. I'm just telling you something, folks. Salvation is real. And when you receive Jesus Christ, that shed blood takes every sin you've ever committed, you'll ever commit, and puts it away and cleanses you and makes you perfect before a holy God So that you're as fit for heaven now as if you're already walking the golden streets. That's the power of the blood of Jesus Christ. Thank God for the shed blood. And then I want you to notice the blood's concern. He said, this do in remembrance of me. Can I remind you something tonight? There is no blood like Jesus' blood. There is no blood. The blood of the Lord Jesus is not like the blood that was shed by lambs and all the other sacrifices. There's no comparison A mere man's blood would not do what Jesus' blood did. A mere individual, listen, I could die and shed my blood, and it wouldn't do a thing so far as my sin 's concern Other than just answer for the fact that I'm a sinner. But Hebrews chapter 9 says this neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place. having obtained eternal redemption for us. For if by the blood of bulls and goats and ashes of a heifer sprinkling the unclean sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? I'll tell you what, that precious blood makes dead sinners live. That precious blood makes lost people saved. That precious blood has the power to take an old troubled conscience, disturbed mind, distorted life, and put it all right back in place. That's the power of the blood of Jesus Christ. Now why do we not want to tell that? Why has the devil so bamboozled us that we're ashamed to talk about it and don't preach about it and tell others about it? They may not understand all of it, but you let the Spirit of God take care of the understanding, and you just do the proclaiming. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. We cannot forget the shed blood. It not only needs to be remembered, but it needs to be rejoiced in. It is that blood that has made us clean. And you know, I'm glad to tell you tonight, there is not one stain that the blood of Christ can't remove. I don't want. You say, Preacher, but you don't know my s sin. I don't need to know your sin. You know, they're always trying to sell you a stain remover, a miracle worker. You know, will you buy this, it'll get up everything. You know, it'll wash away everything. I told you about when little when Josiah got sprayed by skunk, we tried everything to make him not stink no more. We burnt his clothes, that helped his clothes. We figured we'd get in trouble if we put the torch to him. So we washed him. We washed him in borax, we washed him in all kinds of concoctions. We took Tomato listen, tomato juice, that's a wives tale if there ever was one. Because that didn't do one thing for him, except make him smell like a tomato-flavored skunk. We took peroxide, mixed it with the borax, and I'll tell you when you do that it has a chemical reaction. And uh it made him a shade of white. He wasn't ever before that previous experience. I mean he had some strange colors about him for a while. But do you know he s he just had to wear that thing off? For about what, six months, seven months? He smelt like a skunk. You get in a car and turn the heat on and it get hot and he's like, oh Lord I said, Elizabeth, can't we leave him at home somewhere? I mean he smells awful. He'd get hot running and playing at school. And he'd come in and sat down at his desk and you're like, Mercy. You did you get an escalky? No, Dad, I didn't see one this time. It was it it just you c it couldn't get it just had to wear off. Thank God it did, I think. But can I tell you something tonight? You say, preacher, I've lived a horrible life. I've been out in this world, I've done things unspeakable. I've thought things unimaginable. I'm guilty of things criminal. Can I tell you tonight? There's a fountain filled with blood. And it's drawn from Emmanuel's veins. And sinners, all sinners, don't matter what kind of sinner you are, sinners plunged beneath its flood. There's all their guilty stuff. All of them. All of them. Thank God I'm going to tell you something. The devil's going to harass you about things you've done because you can't forget them just yet. And he's going to halt and aggravate and harass you. And his days come and you just hold on. But you remember this, the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses all sin, cleanses all unright. It's gone. As far as God's concerned, it's gone. It's been washed away. That's the power of the blood of Jesus Christ. We cannot forget that. Then let me say this quickly, and we'll observe the ordinance. We've got to remember the sacrifice of the cross, the shed blood of Jesus, but we also need to remember the Savior Himself. Notice what he said twice in remembrance of me. I want you to remember me. By the way, he's not me who was. He's the me who is. His cross, when we look back at the cross and all that was obtained on the cross, has to be looked at through an empty tomb. You can't see the cross looking back without first peering through that empty tomb. When you look through the empty tomb, you see clearly the cross on the hill. Listen, dear friend, when we think of Christ Himself, we do not think of the man hanging on Calvary, for he doesn't hang there anymore. The Lord Jesus is not hung on a cross somewhere on a crucifix. The Lord Jesus is seated at the right hand of the Father. He's the eternal God reigning forever and ever and ever. When we look back at the Savior Himself in this ordinance of remembrance, we've got to also look ahead. This is a good time for you to be able to look two ways at once. Because looking back, you've got to look ahead. Looking back, we're looking back at his death, but we look ahead at his coming. We look ahead at his return. He said to do this till I come And beloved that tells me he's coming again. And every eye's gonna see him. Every knee's gonna bow before him. Every tongue's gonna confess who he is. He's Jesus. Listen, this world thinks you're crazy. I don't doubt somebody's drove by Old Elkneck and said there's those crazy people at Marinatha. They're crazy. What are they doing over there at church on holiday weekend? Well they do it in that church house there. They're crazy. They've lost their minds. This world will ridicule you if you talk about trusting in Jesus. call you weak and foolish and ignorant, unlearned and all sorts of things. But just let them talk. Let them say what they want to say. Because one of these days, dear friend, they will get the education. They will have their eyes open. They will begin to understand He is the Lord. And you who are saved, dear friend, and you and I who know the Lord will be able to say, There's my Lord. He's come back for me. I'm going home. Thank God for that. We're here to remember tonight the sacrifice and the shed blood and the Savior Himself. And always remember that when we do this, we must do it with an understanding that he lives. This isn't the end of the story. Yes, he died. Thank God he did. The gospel is Christ died for our sins. According to the scripture. And he was buried. And he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. And he's alive. We've not come here to have a funeral. We've come here to worship the Savior. And to acknowledge the one who died for us is present among us. He's here tonight. He's here and all of his people. And we're grateful that he would love an outfit like us. What a Savior is Jesus our Lord. Heavenly Father is