Luke yesterday morning and he asked that we keep praying and he wanted to thank you for making possible the missionary retreat that's coming up there in Portugal. Um it's in April. I'm trying to think. Is it the 21st? I believe is when they start. But uh he said they have families now coming from Romania, Moldova, Ukraine, and Norway. And he's asking that we pray that the Lord might help and encourage each one of these missionaries who are going to attend this meeting. And in that part of the world, there's not a lot of fellowship for those folks. And so this is going to be just a real profitable time for them to be able to get together. and be encouraged in the Word of God and to pray and just see God stir their hearts up to go back to uh their respective fields and be a lot, be salt in that part of the world. So pray for them. Pray for the loops. And pray for all those that are involved with that. But again, he said to thank you for your kindness in making it possible for him and Julie to be able to do this. I want you to take your Bible this evening and turn with me to the book of Acts, chapter number one. And when you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please, and we'll read the first five verses. Of Acts chapter number one The Bible says, the former treaties have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach. Until the day in which he was taken up, after that he through the Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen. to whom also he showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. And being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which, saith he, ye have heard of me For John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence That 's first three I'm interested in. I want to turn your attention to those many infallible proofs. Father, help us, please. As we come to your word, we understand, Father, that we must have thy help. We can't understand it. We certainly can't declare it without help from above. And so, Lord, we ask that you would be our teacher and strengthen our hearts and do your work in our midst, and we'll give you the glory. We thank you for the Lord Jesus and thank you again for that empty tomb. I'm glad, Lord, we can say with deep, deep assurance, He lives. He lives. And we're grateful, Lord, to have a living, risen Savior. We bow before you and praise your name. Would you just suit a blessing and speak to your people? And we'll thank you for what you do, for we pray in Christ's name. And God's people said , Man, you can be seated. I want to bring this evening a defense of the resurrection. A defense of the resurrection. Like most things in the Bible, truth is mocked by unbelievers. People that don't believe this Bible think many of the things in the Bible are very foolish. They would read things like we've just read and say, how in the world can a man who's dead live again? And if someone were to approach you tomorrow and say, now what did you do over the weekend? And you say, well, I went to church and and uh celebrated the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and they laugh and say, How do you know he's alive? Well, I want to give you a few things that are found here in this text that'll help you bring or give a defense of the resurrection. I believe that we have a Bible that helps us and enables us. to give an answer to every man that asketh for the reason of the hope that is within us. I don't have to go to extra biblical sources to declare the good news that Jesus lives. Now, I know I know a lot of the stories and things people say. Somebody sent me something the other day as a video Of a man who said he died, and when he died, he went uh, you know, towards the light, and when he went towards the light, he he he saw the Lord and And the Lord spoke to him and told him to go back to earth and and uh tell everybody that he's real and tell everybody he's alive. Now, I'm just going to tell you, I don't know about that story, I don't know about that person, but I do believe, I do believe God's already told me all I need to know that he's alive. And it 's not going to profit a man who's going to write a book or make a video and sell it to everybody. It's found right here in the pages of this old Bible, and it tells me he lives. All I need to defend the resurrection is right here. And so I want to point those things out. May the Lord help us this evening to encourage our faith. I want you to notice in the text here in verse number three The initiative taken. Just by way of introduction, I want you to think about the initiative that was taken. Notice what it says, to whom also he showed himself. Our Lord took the initiative to say, hey, I'm alive. I'm going to tell you something. I'm grateful, at least on my part, that the Lord takes the initiative. He takes the first step. I believe in salvation. He takes the first step. I believe in my sanctification. He takes the first step. And I believe in my in all of the things God does, he takes the first step. And here he is, when it comes to the resurrection, he showed himself. In other words, he took the initiative. These men were going to need, and women were going to need the confidence that he was alive. They were going to need some assurances. They were going to need some reassurances. And boy, I'm glad God gives me those. I'm glad the Lord takes the initiative. He starts my way and he says, want to help you with something because you're going to need help in this area. So he showed himself. He took the initiative. But I like this. I want you to notice the emphasis that was made. Look what it says. He showed himself alive. Alive. If you mark in your Bibles, I'd highlight that, circle it, put arrows on it, and remind myself he's alive. That's the emphasis. When he showed himself, notice he didn't emphasize the cross. Only one time do we have an account of him pointing to the wounds that are in his hands his side. Only one time. Only one time do we have and that was for Thomas because Thomas said, Except I thrust my hands. And our Lord said here. But he did emphasize I'm alive. Multiple times. You go back and study it and count the numbers, but m number of times he said, for instance, to Mary, I'm alive. He said to the disciples, I am alive. He said to the above 500 brethren, he said, I am alive. What I'm saying is that the emphasis that was made after the resurrection was on the fact Jesus Christ is alive. I'm glad I don't have a dead God. I was listening to somebody, who was it this morning? It'll come to me. But I was listening to someone this morning who said they had gone over to uh Moscow and they had seen the the body there Of uh linen, I believe it is. It's still there in Red Square. And uh walked in, said it's a great big sign, says no talking, there's guards standing there. He said the first time he went there was such a line that he couldn't get in. He thought that he'd he'd just come back another time. And uh he he was able to go back and he thought What a tragedy. Here you stand in line to see a man whose body has been preserved and kept for all of these years, who's dead. He's dead. He said it wasn't long after that he went over to Israel, traveled to Jerusalem, went in what they believed was the Garden Tomb. And he said, You know what? Nobody was in there. He said there wasn't a guard standing at the door saying keep out there was nobody there. In fact he said there were people standing around singing praises to the one who used to be there. You know why? Because he's not dead, he's alive Now know this, the emphasis, the emphasis that Jesus placed after the resurrection was on the fact that he is alive. So we see the initiative taken, the emphasis made, but then please note this, the days that were counted. Look what the Bible says. Being seen of them forty days. Why not ten? Or thirty or fifteen. Why forty days? How many of you know God does everything on purpose? There's no slip shod with the Lord. He doesn't just happen to say, Oh, forty days, I didn't see that go by that quick. Gotta go. And ascended up to heaven. I'm saying that respectfully, I understand. I'm not dishonoring my Lord. But he does nothing with such uh with such whim. He does everything intentionally and on purpose. Forty days. 40 days. Well, I believe one reason is because 40 in the Bible is a number of testing or proving. Forty days. Rain forty days and night. Forty years they were in the wilderness. Forty days Jesus was tempted by the devil after he'd fasted and hungered. 40. 40 is that number proof. 40 is that number that you bring and it says you put it under the the microscope of examination And after 40 days, the conclusion you come to is the conclusion. It's the proof. And so for 40 days, he was seen of the disciples. You imagine that? I I know the day of the resurrection was a mighty big day. Those next 40 days must have been some journey. It must have been something, Zach. I mean, can you imagine being one of them men in that upper room on that Sunday evening? And all of a sudden the Lord's there. They didn't hear the door open because he didn't open the door. He didn't have to. They they they didn't he wasn't there when they started when they got together, but but all of a sudden there he is You imagine being one of those ladies at the garden tomb when all of a sudden, well, when he appeared to Mary and she thought he was the gardener and said, Where have they taken him? And he said to her, Mary? She heard that voice, and I'll tell you, if you're his, the Bible says his sheep hear my voice. They know, they know, you know his voice. Now listen, a lot of people had called Mary Mary. Her mother had called her Mary. Her friends had called her Mary. A whole lot of other people had called her Mary. But nobody said Mary like the Lord Jesus Christ. And when he said Mary, she said Raboni, Lord and Master, and fell down before him. Now I'm telling you, those 40 days must have been some exciting time. on this earth for the Lord just to be showing himself again and again and again. But let me get now to the message and point out some things here. I want you to see this little word infallible, and I'll give you four infallible proofs. But that word infallible, what does it mean? It means to be without a doubt. It means to be proven to the point of being unquestionable. It also means to be incapable of error or mistake. You need to know something. The resurrection of Jesus Christ is no mistake. There's no error involved. You need to know that the Bible records for us in uncertain in very clear and no uncertain terms that Jesus Christ got up from the grave. And there are infallible proofs. I love it when someone says, Well, I'm going to study the Bible to prove it wrong. You almost feel like saying, Go ahead. Go ahead. You're about to encounter something you've never encountered. You're about to discover some things you've never. How many people have set out to prove the Bible wrong only to be converted in the process? Because God's word 's alive, Jesus is alive, and salvation's real. Infallible proofs. He said for 40 days, 40 days He made it without shadow of doubt that he is alive. Someone said, a trial lawyer actually said this. He said of all the things that he had studied and he had gotten converted trying to prove that the resurrection was not real, but he said there's more proof for the resurrection of Jesus Christ than anything he had ever examined. More proof. More proof. Can I give you four? These are defenses of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. You go to work this week. Someone ridicules you about the resurrection. Will you just give them some of these proofs and let them stew on them? Number one. Proof number one, the eyewitnesses. Eyewitnesses. You know what it says there? To whom? You might want to mark that whom. Who are the whom Who are the individuals that he made himself known to? Well, go over here real quick. 1 Corinthians 15. 1 Corinthians 15. You know, I Zach, I think I'm going to borrow something from the rescue mission. If you're sleepy and can't stay awake, go stand in the back of the church. How many men were standing back here by the time we got done? Yeah, there's a bunch of them. And they gave strict orders. If you get sleepy during the service, don't sleep and disrespect those that have come to have service. Get up and go stand at the back and and stay awake. Did you see the one guy fall asleep standing up? Man, he made a racket back there. I think he collapsed or something. But anyway, I know it's Sunday evening, it's warm, your belly's full of your dinner, but uh may the Lord help us, because I believe there's some good here in his word that'll Do us some good deceiving. 1 Corinthians 15, look at verse number 3. For I delivered unto you, first of all, that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Now let me say this. If I had nothing else but according to the scriptures, I've got enough to put my faith in. I don't need any more. Okay, I don't need any more. If you've got the scriptures, you've got all you need. But it isn't the Lord kind. To say, but also. Here's something else. Notice what it says, verse 5, and he was seen. You ought to mark all these, he was seen. He was seen of Cephas. Then of the twelve. After that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep After that he was seen of James, then of all the apostles. And last of all, he was seen of me also as of one born out of due time. Now this isn't comprehensive. This isn't a list of all the appearances, all the individuals who saw the Lord. But it is enough evidence to say a whole lot of people saw the Lord. He was seen. He was seen. Notice it doesn't say he was imagined. It said he was seen. You think about all of these eyewitnesses. This was not a small group of people. This was not a a fringe minority of individuals. This was not uh people that were fanciful in notion that were given to such dreams and visions. These were individuals who were going about their life, many who did not even believe that he was alive, and yet somehow along the way they met the Lord and they seen him, and it's recorded. Literally, hundreds saw the Lord. Hundreds. We're not talking about just a handful of disciples. We're talking about hundreds of men and women who literally laid their eyes on the Lord. Now, I know in the court of law an eyewitness is a lot of power. There's weight with that. You go to court and somebody says, Well, I got eyewitness, you're thinking, oh boy, this may go good or bad. Because the eyewitness carries weight. Here we've got hundreds, and listen, you know what Paul was saying here to the Corinthian believers? That group of 500, a lot of them are still alive. You go ask them yourself. You could have easily went to to Jerusalem and and and walked up and down the streets and and he would say, Now this one was here and that one was there and and this individual saw the Lord and you could say, What did you see? Well I I saw the Lord. After he was put to death on the cross, after they took him down and put him in the tomb, after he got up on the third day, I saw him. There's eyewitnesses. Boy, it thrills me to think about all of those who saw the Lord and testified to it. Now, Paul's case is rather unique because the Lord had ascended already to heaven. And he said, I saw him too. When did he see him? On the road to Damascus. On the road to Damascus when he got converted, the Lord, listen, the Lord came down in person. Oh, I'll tell you, isn't it something to think about the fact that here is a man who was a persecutor, a killer of Christians, a hater of God As far as Jesus Christ is concerned, and yet the Lord would pay him a personal visit, and he would get born again. He said he was seen. Think about all those eyewitnesses. See, you are not putting your faith. I don't like the definition of faith, a shot in the dark. Somebody said one time, I'm just going to trust the Lord. I know I'm taking a shot in the dark. And I felt like saying, close your mouth. You're not shooting in the dark. When you put faith in God, you're trusting in the greatest evidences of all. You're not just shooting in the dark, my friend. You've got evidence. Notice here the eyewitnesses. You could you could have walked up to someone in that day and say, you know, you were there in that group of five hundred. He says above five hundred, so more than five hundred. You could have walked up to one of them and said uh what happened. Now you know the Bible don't tell us when these five hundred saw the Lord Jesus It doesn't give us any details as to when that took place. When did it take place? I don't know. But it took place because the Bible tells me so. And there were eyewitnesses to the resurrected Christ. These men and women were so absolutely convinced he was alive, they would die for him rather than deny him. Now that says something. That says something. The many eyewitnesses. Let me give you let me give you uh proof number two. When you read the story or the account here of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, you'll notice here it says back in my text, to whom also he showed himself alive, after his passion. That was his death. After they nailed him to a cross, do you remember what the Bible says that Joseph of Arimathea came and begged for the body of Jesus? And laid him in that new borrowed tomb. Can I say the second proof of the resurrection is the empty tomb? The empty tomb. Will you go back to Matthew 27 real quick? Just turn over there, Matthew chapter number 27, and look at these verses with me. Matthew chapter 27 and well let's just skip down to verse 62 Now the next day that followed the day of the preparation, the chief priests and Pharisees came together unto Pilate. Saying, sir, we remember that the deceiver said while he was yet alive, after three days I will rise again. Command, therefore, that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day, lest his disciples come by night and steal him away. And say unto the people he is risen from the dead. So the last error shall be worse than the first. You know something? That kind of sounds like a confession. Their first error was condemning him. Say, we don't want to make another one. Let's guard the tomb. Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch. Go your way, make it as sure as you can. So they went and made the sepulchre sure. Sealing the stone and setting a watch. I want you to notice, number one, this empty tomb was secure Now, hardly anybody agrees on what a watch is. Not talking about what you wear on your wrist. But this this Roman watch. Most think it was 16 soldiers. Some would say it's as many as 30. But whatever the number be, it was a significant enough number to make sure that the tomb was secure. Pilate said, you've got your watch. Take that band of men, take that group of soldiers. You station them however you wish. Just make sure that the tomb is secure. Now, friend, I want you to know something. These guards were highly trained men. These were not novices, these were not men that were easily overcome, easily beat down, these were Roman soldiers, these were the elite of the day. And Pilate said, put them around that, you guard it, you watch it, secured the tomb. Not only did they secure the tomb, but you'll notice it said they took a stone. And they sealed the tomb. They sealed the tomb. Do you realize that the stones that were used to seal tombs in that day, I understand there's about 75 or 8 uh of those stones that are have been discovered that date back to that particular time. And not one of them lay weighs less than two thousand pounds. Some as many as four 4,000 pounds? Now, I don't know about you, but you just don't go throwing two and four thousand pounds around. They secured the tomb. They also would often cut a trough for that stone to roll in such a way that it was easy to move it down, but it sure took a whole host of men to push it back up. It also was utterly impossible to access it or move it from the inside. Somebody had to be on the outside. What was the worry of the women who went to the tomb? Who will move the stone? They couldn't move the stone. They understood very clearly, I don't care how many of them there were. Multitude, several of these ladies, they could not move the stone. And that's not saying anything about ladies. I know some ladies are stronger than a lot of men I know Brother Bennell testified of this, if you told Sarah she couldn't pick it up, she would. Wouldn't she? Just prove you're wrong. She may rip every muscle inside her little body, but she get it up. These ladies could have no, they knew they couldn't move that stone. It was a sealed tomb Matthew 28. Go over to the next chapter real quick. Again, we're trying to think about this empty tomb. It was secure. There was a stone. And I want you to look at this saying here in verse 11 of Matthew 28. Now when they were going, behold, some of the watch came into the city and showed unto the chief priests all the things that were done. And when they were assembled with the elders and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers. By the way. Mankind 's always been such that he's you can buy him. Here they are buying them off. And and what'd they do? They said, saying, say ye, say ye, his disciples came by night and stole him away while we slept. And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him and secure you. So they took the money and did as they were taught, and this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day. Now stop and think logically. Jesus' followers at this time were not a great number. The closer he got to the cross, the smaller that crowd got. Still true. The closer you get to committed Christianity, the fewer you'll find walking on that trail. And here's a handful, a handful at best, who, by the way, have fled away. The Bible said all men forsook him and fled. They had fled away out of fear. Peter wouldn't even stand up to a little maid around the fire who said, You're one of them. And he said, No, not me. And they said they came while we were asleep and stole his body Do you understand that sleeping on guard was death sentence stuff? You fell asleep on guard, buddy, you you weren't gonna make it. Have you ever noticed how it takes more faith to believe the devil's lie than it does God's truth? I'm supposed to believe that this band of fearful men had come upon these soldiers, found them asleep, somehow or another moved a 2,000-plus stone. and stole the body away and these soldiers sat there and did nothing knowing their lives were on the line? See, the lives the lies of the devil are always ridiculous. Evolution's another one. You mean to tell me that everything came uh uh as a result of an explosion? How many of you ever blown anything up? Name one positive thing that came from an explosion. You you don't things you things fall apart when you blow 'em up. I was telling Ben, I was a little boy. You know, little boys like to mix things and see if they're flammable. Some little boys do, okay. And I'd mix this thing in a gas can and my dad caught me pouring stuff in it. He said, What are you doing? I said, Well, I've just been mixing a little something here. He said, Go throw that away. Well My thoughts were the best place to throw it away was in the outhouse. Things in outhouses are very flammable. Okay? And my father had poured a concrete cylinder down that outhouse to make it easy to move and relocate. And uh And somehow or another, that concoction I threw in there sparked, that metal gas can sparked as it hit that concrete, and it was just enough spark to light everything in there. It blew that outhouse. That thing looked like a missile going through the air. Blew it all to pieces. It rained things for five minutes. Man, it's awful. And I'm going to tell you this by eyewitness testimony, nothing good came out of that. Not one productive thing. I bet I got 15 spankings out of that. My dad would be sitting in the living room thinking about it. And he'd get a look on his face and I know, here it comes. He's after me now. Here's what I'm trying to get across, church. Understand, the devil is a liar and the father of it. And when he tells you something that doesn't make sense, just know it's another one of his silly lies. Jesus got up out of the grave. The disciples didn't steal his body. He didn't pass out on a cold stone and wake up and push his way out. He 's alive. He's God in heaven. And he came back to listen, he came back to life after they nailed him on that cross. And you can count on the fact he lives because the tomb is empty. The empty tomb. Quickly, notice number three, the bodily appearances of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, we believe in a bodily resurrection. His he he the body that he lived in, that they nailed on the cross, is the body he got up in. Now it obviously underwent some sort of transformation because that glorified body that the Lord Jesus had could go through door. But it was still a body. You'll notice, let me give you these real quick. Number one, you see the women at his feet in Matthew 28:9. They held his feet. He wasn't a spirit. He had a body. They held his feet. In the upper room in John chapter number 20, as I mentioned this already, he told Thomas to touch his hands. Held him out. Now I don't Thomas didn't. The Bible says he didn't. He didn't do it. He said, My Lord my God. He acknowledged that he was there and real But Jesus said, Touch me. You could have touched the wounds in his hands. You could have touched his side. You could have touched his feet. You could have seen or held. And he was physical and literal and real. He bodily arose. And that bodily resurrection tells me there's a proof he's alive. He shared a meal. John chapter number 21. Jesus had bread and fish. Come and dine. The master calleth. Come and dine. Remember that old song? You know what Jesus Jesus says that he took the bread and fish and gave it to them. He took And if I understand that word correctly, it means he took and partook. He he took part of what they, you know, it's like a little fella, uh who was it? Somebody's a little kid. They wanted to give me they had a sucker in their mouth and they said, You want some? And I'm like, no, I'll pass. You you've had that thing in your little mouth. I don't want it in mine. But but he took and partook. He he took part of this meal and they did as well. He shared a meal Now, he wasn't a spirit floating around immaterial and intangible. He was real. His body was real. They could touch him, they could see him, they could handle him. And listen, my friend, when he went up into heaven, do you know what they saw? They saw a body go up into heaven. Because here's what those angels said, you men of Galilee, why stand ye here gazing? This same Jesus whom you've seen go up into heaven shall so come again in like manner. And what do we believe the Bible teaches? The Bible teaches us there will be a literal and visible and physical return of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's not coming back as a spirit, he's coming back in body. Same body they nailed to that old rugged cross, glorified now in heaven. The bodily resurrection of Jesus Christ. The bodily appearances of the Lord is a proof of the resurrection. I've got to close with this. The miracle of salvation. The miracle. Here's your fourth proof. And I believe this one's awful powerful. I believe it's awful powerful when we think about the miracle of salvation. Look at this text over here in Mark. I believe it's Mark 16. Look over there with me real quick. Mark sixteen and verse. Yeah, verse 19 and 20. Notice this: so then after the Lord had spoken unto them, he was received up into heaven and sat on the right hand of God. And they went forth and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word with signs following. How did the Lord work with them? Read the book of Acts. Read the book of Acts. The Acts of the Holy Ghost of God through his apostles, the workings of God among the people. Let me give you a few. Acts 2:41, 3,000 were saved. 3 ,000. Can you imagine? 3,000. But you know, we make a big deal out of that day of Pentecost, but there was a bigger day yet. Acts 4, 5,000. It says above five thousand. So there were more than five. And how many of you know God doesn't exaggerate? He doesn't speak evangelistically. Huh? Remember when marking numbers was such a big deal? We had, I bet we had fifty people saved. Well , God doesn't exaggerate. Sometimes we do, but God doesn't When he said above 5,000, there were 5,000 safe. That's 8,000 in just a few days. Do you realize that? That's the miracle of salvation. Many of the people who stood around that cross and said, crucify him were converted in the following days. The same crowd that hated him now started to follow and love and serve him because they got born again. That's the miracle of salvation. What about the great uh missionary exploits as they went out into Judea and Samaria as they were scattered upon the persecution? of Stephen there and they began to preach the word and people got saved. Philip's down in Samaria and the whole city seems to be turning to the Lord and they're getting saved. And the Spirit of God says, now Philip, there's a man down in the desert. I want you to go meet him. He goes and meets the eunuch, and he begins to talk to him, and the eunuch is converted and saved. Then in Acts chapter 13 they launch out outside of the confines of that region, that Judean -Samaria region, and they go deeper into the Gentile world where pagans and idolaters live. where people that that that had light but have rejected light have now made their own form of God and they're worshiping silver gods and stone and idols of all sorts and they start preaching the gospel, what happens? People start getting saved. People that knew nothing or know nothing of the the God of heaven, the true God start to be saved and their lives are changed. You've got a church like in Corinth, a church the churches of Galatia and Colossae and Thessalonica and all over that part of the world where idolatry abounded, and now there's people who love and serve the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the miracle of salvation. Salvation is not a fairy tale. Salvation is a miracle of God. And when God saves somebody, he proves that he's alive. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. There's a miracle takes place in salvation you can't explain and I can't explain, but it's evident in the lives of those who are saved. I like that song. I haven't heard it in a long time. There's a miracle in me. Remember that song, There's a Miracle in Me? Maybe you can dig that one out, Charlie, and sing it sometime. There's a Miracle in Me. You know what the miracle is? Jesus. When you got saved, a miracle took place. The greatest miracle that ever occurred is the miracle of salvation. Listen, when God saves a sinner and makes them a saint, it's a miracle of God. It's proof of the resurrection. Oh, I know people get religious and follow this sect and that sect, but I'm not talking about that sort of thing. I'm talking about genuine new birth. That makes a new person out of an individual who once hated God, now loves him, who once who once went the other way, is now going the right way. Who once disobeyed the Lord now loves and lives and strives to obey the Lord and serve him. I'm telling you, every saved sinner gives infallible proof Jesus is alive. Every saved sinner. I've met a few, my friend, that thought they were saved and they weren't. You say, but what about these folk that just are a disgrace to Jesus Christ? Well, I'll say this. There are some people who think they're saved and they're not. Plain and simple. They're trusting something other than the Lord. I would say this, it's very possible for a person to be saved and not show it consistently. There are times in many of these Old Testament people and New Testament. Look, Peter standing around that fire warming his hands and swearing. You think he looked like a Christian at that point? But he was the Lord's. He was the Lord's. But all of those people who were saved by God's grace Are living proof Jesus is alive. I've known enough of them in my life to convince me salvation's real. Brother Ralph used to come home from college. He was my pastor's son. He's now the pastor of the church. Well, his grandson is now, actually. He's retired. But Brother Ralph said he'd come home off in college getting his education and he got educated out of confidence in the Bible. That's a terrible kind of education to have. I'll be honest with you. I think we often do our children a disservice by pushing them into a system we ought to be pulling them out of. And he would laugh at the faith and he would scoff, but he said there was one hang-up. There were enough people that he knew who were real Christians. People he couldn't explain. People like Maul Stewart, old sister Maul Stewart, Macy Bailey. These are widowed ladies in our church. These ladies didn't serve God because it benefited them. I learned after Macy went to heaven, nearly every time she went to church, her husband was a drunk and he'd beat her for going to church. But Macy come. You know something else about Macy? She was the sweetest person you ever met She's the one lady I couldn't protest when we'd go home and uh we'd go back to visit and Sister Macy'd come up and she'd hug you. She didn't ask for permission, she just hugged you. And she'd kiss you. And she'd paint your cheeks. I don't care if you were ten or a hundred. That's how Macy greeted you. But boy, she loved God Lived in poverty because of her husband's ways. And yet she'd come to church and she had the joy. I mean she had joy. She wasn't there putting on. She wasn't there for a show. She loved the Lord. And she said, I'm going to God's house and worship the Lord. I don't care what it costs me. Ma Stewart was another dear lady. Sister Stewart would often We were trying to build our building and our pastor believes you don't go in debt. You pay as you go. And we got about we got that church, we got the foundation in, run out of money, and we just had to wait. Man, I can remember as a little boy, I bet the offering plate went by ten times. Oftentimes there'd be a there'd be a uh a truckload of stuff out there that they needed to build with on Monday. And preacher, they'd take up an offer and count it, and so we don't have enough money, we've got to get enough money. Here come the offering plate again And they'd do that until we got it built. That old church you can still see the stains where they'd they'd get about halfway up and they'd have to stop because we run out of money And then it rained and stained. I can still remember, I loved it. I loved it as a kid. We'd sit in church. If it rained, everybody had an umbrella. And there'd be little buckets to catch water. Do you know how fascinating that is for a kid? I'm thinking, man, I'm on the mighty banks of some big river. I'm fishing, you know, while he's trying to preach. There's a bucket there full of water Miss Bailey lived on Social Security. Or Sister Stewart rather. And Sister Stewart would often sign that Social Security check. And put it in offering plate. Now we only found this out after she went to heaven. And after church, Brother Ralph would take that back and he would say, Now listen, Maul, you need to you need this to live on. How are you gonna buy groceries? And she had a way about her. If you crossed her a little bit, she'd go. And she she snapped her hands and put her finger out, she said, Don't rob me of some miracles this month. She said, Ralph, if you believe what you say you believe, God will feed me like he does everybody else. And then you know what she'd do? She'd come back on Wednesday night and she'd get up and she'd she'd she was a shouter now. She'd scare most of y'all here. If Ma Stewart got started, and it didn't take a lot to get her started, but boy, she would shout, she kept her hair up like those old-time women did, and I've seen her shout it plumbed down. And she would get so full of joy and she'd be shouting and you knew a story was coming. She'd give testimony. She'd say, let me tell you how the Lord fed me this week. Let me tell you what the Lord did for me this week. Now here's what Ralph said. He said, there was enough of that I could not deny something's real. Something's real. I'm going to venture. Everybody sitting here knows somebody who you have to say they're real. You can't explain it. You can't put your finger. You may not know all the ins and outs, but here's what you know. Jesus made a difference in their life. I'm going to tell you, religion won't do that for you. But Jesus Christ will. You've heard of Chuck Colson, and this is neither an endorsement nor a condemnation of his ministry. It's a statement. But Chuck Colson Got saved. He actually got saved, said he was saved before he went to jail. He was Nixon's counsel, special counsel. They called him his hatchet man. Some of you remember those days, the Watergate. And it was during that time that he was really struggling and he was disillusioned with people in politics because men that that that locked arms with him now stuck him in the back and And he had a friend who was just different. And he went to visit this friend, and this friend began to read something to him. It was about the Lord Jesus and what he had done for this other this particular man and he's reading it he's reading this and Colson says he left there just Just in amazement and wonderment of the Lord. And he says that he pulled over on the side of the road and through many tears trusted Jesus Christ. But he was a man that was trained in thinking in a particular way. And he struggled, he said, with the resurrection. He said that is until he went to jail. And here's what he said. He said, I know the resurrection is a fact, and Watergate proved it to me. How? Twelve men testified they had seen Jesus raised from the dead. They proclaimed that truth for over forty years, never once denying it. Everyone was beaten, tortured, stoned, and put in prison. They would not have endured it had it not been true. Watergate embroiled twelve of the most powerful men in the world, and they couldn't keep a lie together for three weeks. And he said, you're telling me twelve apostles could keep alive for forty years? Absolutely impossible. Now we're more than 40 years, friend. We're over 2,000 years. And we're still preaching the gospel and people are still getting converted and Jesus Christ is building his church. Why? Because he is alive. Thank God for a living Savior. Don't shrink back from a world that says, show me, prove it. Open your Bible and get busy. Open your Bible and get busy. Many, many, he said, infallible proofs. We have the eyewitnesses. We have the empty tomb. We have the bodily appearances. And we have the miracle of salvation. Those are a few. There are many, many infallible proofs. Don't let the intelligentsia of the day make you quake in fear. Know your Bibles, know the Lord, and represent him well. Because he's alive. And we bless his wonderful name. Would you stand with me please?