In God's word this morning. First Kings chapter number six, First Kings chapter number six, and second Peter chapter number one. 1 Kings chapter number 6, 2 Peter chapter number 1. I want to read just a few verses out of 1 Kings 6 There's a five -word statement that really got my attention as I read through this. And I want to highlight what it says here. But 1 Kings chapter number 6, if you found your place, would you stand with me, please? We'll honor the reading of God's word. First Kings six. Now the chapter is the chapter of the building of Solomon's temple. And I'm not going to read all of these verses because there are several verses I just want to highlight in regards to how the temple was built. But if you look with me at verse number seven, it says, and the house, talking about the temple, when it was in building. Was built of stone made ready before it was brought thither, so that there was neither hammer nor axe. Nor any tool of iron heard in the house while it was building. Look at verse 9. So he built the house and finished it. and covered the house with beams and boards of cedar. Look at verse 15, please And he built the walls of the house within with boards of cedar, both the floor of the house and the walls of the ceiling, and he covered them on the inside with wood. and covered the floor of the house with planks of fur. Please look at one more verse, verse number 18. And the cedar of the house within was carved with knobs and open flowers. All was cedar. Now look at this statement: there was no stone seen. There was no stone seen. The Lord helping me this morning, I want to preach on these invisible essentials. Invisible essentials. You see, when they were building the temple, all the stone was covered by wood. So that no stone was seen. Now if you take away the stone, you're going to damage the structure. The stone was an invisible essential. It was all covered up. Now, folks, there are things that are to be in our lives that are invisible essentials. Now this orn this temple was was very ornate. It was decorated, we read, as they carved in the cedar, etc. And as you look at that temple, you realize that it was awful beautiful to look at, but the structure itself depended upon the stone that was unseen. The Bible says you're a temple of the Lord. Talking about the people of God. And my friend, there are some essentials that are invisible in our lives. Now all the out exterior can be decorated right nicely. But it's what we are inside that really matters. Now, Father, we bow our heads and pray for help now. We're keenly aware that without you we can do nothing. And so we humble ourselves before you and we ask, Lord, help. Would you speak like only you can? Would you stir as only you can? And Lord, I'm grateful you're able to save to the uttermost them that come to God through Jesus Christ. Lord, I pray that you'll have your will and way. Teach us something, grow us, help us. And we'll thank you for what you do, for we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You can be seated. Now in 2 Peter chapter number 1. I want us to read beginning in verse number one. And I'm going to read down to verse number 11. The Old Testament text that we read was an illustration. The New Testament text is going to be the instruction. I'm grateful that God marries his word together in such a way that it complements and never contradicts. And here the Bible is complimenting. It's building upon what's already been said. Now, it's interesting to me as you're finding 2 Peter chapter 1. It's interesting to me that as they built this temple That they build it in such a way that there was no noise. They were to do all the forming and fashioning elsewhere, and then when they got to the temple site, they were to build it without axe, without any noise. It was to be put together in silence And you know the growth and grace that a believer occurs often happens without fanfare or real visible attention. It doesn't, you know, a Christian that's always crying out, look at me, look at me, is not very much to look at. Because what's happening is it's all exterior. Now this temple, as I said, was very ornate. It was a beautiful temple. It was built And decorated. And God has an eye for beauty. If you don't believe that, look at a flower. God pays attention to things like that. That's something that He's interested in. But it wasn't the beauty that made the temple. I would submit to you that it was the stones that made the temple the temple. Now in 2 Peter chapter 1, look what the Bible says, beginning in verse 1, Simon Peter, a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ, to them that have obtained like precious faith with us. Through the righteousness of God and our Savior Jesus Christ. Now let me stop here and say, there's your stone. The Bible says he's a stone of offense, he's a stone of stumbling, but it also says he's the chief cornerstone. And my friend, without him, we have no building. And here the Bible says That Peter is writing to people who have obtained like precious faith. You say, well, preacher, I was born in a Christian home. That's not obtaining like precious faith. You say, but I was raised in a good church, and I know the gospel. Well, you may know the gospel, but do you know the God of the gospel? Have you obtained like precious faith? And here he says that faith is through the righteousness of God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. Now he goes on. Grace and peace. be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. According as his divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue, whereby are given unto us great and precious promises That by these you might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. Now look at the next verse. And beside this Giving all diligence. What's the next word? Add to your faith Add to your faith. Now the Bible's getting ready to do something that the Bible does on occasion, and that is make a list. And God's going to make a list of seven things you and I need to add to our faith. It's interesting he doesn't say add faith, he says add to your faith. If I can say it this way, faith's added to me, and I add to my faith. Salvation's of the Lord. And when I believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, I obtain this like precious faith, I become a member of the family of God. And then God has expectations for me. that I add to my faith. Now all seven of these things are what I'm going to call invisible essentials. I think sometimes in the Christian life we put undue emphasis where emphasis ought not to be. And one of the things I believe that we need to do is go back and emphasize what God emphasizes. We have a Bible for a reason, don't we? The Bible is our rule for faith and practice. And it is the word of God that we are to take and build our faith upon. And so here we are, and he's saying, add to your faith. Now pay attention to the list. How many of you know lists are important? Do you make lists in your life? If we travel somewhere, my wife makes a list of what's going, and I'm going to tell you something. If it's not on the list, it ain't going. All right. Every once in a while I'll draw a little picture of myself and say I'm on that list because I get to go. But a list is very important. And when God makes a list That 's very important. And what's on God's list needs to be on my list. Because this is what God wants you to add to your faith. Now please look with me at the Bible, giving all attention. Excuse me, all diligence, add to your faith. What's the word? Let's go back. I'm reading 2 Peter chapter 1, verse 5. And beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith what? And to virtue what? And to knowledge, and to temperance, and to patience, and to godliness. And the brotherly kindness. Now look at verse eight. For if these things be where? In you. That's where they belong. Let me stop here before I finish reading that and say this that these things need to be in you. Not on you, but in you. Not attached to you, but in you. And watch this, he's not saying now, once you get virtue conquered, move to knowledge. And once you get virtue or knowledge conquered, move to temperance. And once you get, no, no, this isn't Adam one at a time. This is Adam all together Because the word add means to be not left alone. Don't let your faith stand alone. Just gather them all in so that they're all standing around, so that they're all a part of who you are. Add to your faith. Now let me say. Uh this is very important. God does the work in his people's heart, and to him be the glory. But it requires our involvement and cooperation and obedience and surrender Or else all is vain. God doesn't work against a man's will. He invites you to join him, walk with him. Our Lord's never forced anybody to do anything. And we truly believe in the Word of God that the working of God's Spirit does require my involvement. And listen, he's putting the onus on me and you. He's saying, you add to your faith these things. This is your responsibility. So what do we add? We add those seven things. I'll come back to the list in a minute. But look down here where it says in verse 8: if these things be in you, and look at this next word, and abound. The Lord doesn't want these things in the scarcely. He wants them to abound. That's the way that he operates. He says, They make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. If you want a Christian life that is not barren and that's not unfruitful and that that is full of the knowledge of the Lord Jesus, then add these things. Put these things in you. Look at verse 9. But he that lacketh these things is blind and cannot see afar off, and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins. Wherefore the rather, brethren, give diligence to make your calling and election sure, for if ye do these things, ye shall never fall. Now that tells me I can fall Not from grace, but in grace. And he says this is something that needs attention. It needs diligent attention. It's something that's very important. Look at verse 11. Here's what we all desire: for so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Now, whatever that all entails, the point is this that God wants your entrance into heaven to be a glorious entrance. He wants your entrance into heaven to be one where you don't walk through the gates of glory with your head hung in shame. But you've diligently added to your faith so that you can be exactly what it is the Lord wants you to be. Now listen, every battle you face as a Christian is to keep this from happening in your life. Every struggle that you face in your Christian life is to keep you from adding to your faith Every obstacle that you come against in your Christian life is an obstacle that says, don't add to your faith. Just uh go the other way and be like the Bible says, he that lacketh these things is blind and cannot see afar off. And had forgotten that he was purged from his old sins. I want you to think about these things we're supposed to add. These are invisible essentials. Now, I do believe that what's on the inside will make its way to the outside. That's true. That's a principle that's very clear in the Word of God. But listen, I think sometimes we work so much on the outside that we totally neglect the inside and we suffer for it. Now, what if they'd have built this temple? And I didn't read all of that chapter, but as I read that chapter, I realized that if we spent all the time building the cedar structure, And neglecting the stone structure that this thing wouldn't stand. Do you realize along the outside of the temple was great weight because these Rooms were added that leaned on that interior structure. Now I'm not a builder, but I have enough sense to know this. If whatever I'm leaning on is not strong enough to hold me up, whatever it is that I'm leaning on, I'm going to collapse it. I could go back there in the nursery and I could say, now I could get little uh Tyler. And I'd say, Tyler, I want you to stand right here. And I believe little Tyler would probably stand right there. And I'd say, Tyler, I'm going to lean on you. And my 200 and none of your business pounds would not be supported by that little rascal. As stout as he is, he doesn't have the wherewithal to hold me up. But when God said, now Solomon, when you build this temple and you lean those outer courts on that inner wall, know this: that what's invisible is essential because it's holding everything else up. Now the things in you will hold you up or let you down depends on what's in you. It depends on what's in you. It's illustrated in the New Testament when our Lord taught us about the building of a house. And so and a house was built on sand, and when the storm came, because it was built on sand, it fell And the house that was built on rock, on the stone, when the storm came, it stood. Why? Because it was built on something that could support it. I'm saying, church, that what's in you is essential. What's in you, it may be invisible, but it is absolutely essential. And it starts with Jesus Christ. And my friend, if you don't know the Lord Jesus, I'm not talking about a profession, I'm not talking about a church membership, I'm not talking about a baptismal certificate. I'm not talking about all those exterior things that we often lean on. I'm talking about a living relationship whereby you know you've passed from death unto life because you put your faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ. And you know that your salvation depends not on you, but on what Jesus did on the cross for you, and you're believing Him to the saving of your soul. That, my friend, is where this foundation begins. And if you've never done that, trust him today. But preacher, I'm very religious. Throw your religion away. But preacher, I built I put I put so much time on the exterior. Throw it all away. The Apostle Paul was a man who spent a bulk of his life, a good part of his life, building on the exterior. He had an outward righteousness that was according to the law blameless. He was zealous, but he was lost. Here's what he said: I counted all lost, but for Christ. He said, it's nothing to me. I throw it away like dumb. I throw it away because Christ is more valuable. And I'm saying to you today, my friend, whatever it is you're clinging to, if it's not the real thing, throw it away, it's not valuable, it will land you in hell one day. The reality is believe on Jesus Christ and be saved by his marvelous grace. That's where it starts. And then upon that are these addings, these additions that Peter instructs us through. He says, add this. And let me give them quickly. Number one, add virtue. Now, folks, this is much more than just moral virtue. Lost men can have moral virtue. lost people are uh can can have a certain moral standard. In fact, I've met some lost people with higher moral standards than some safe people So he's got to be speaking of more than this. And let me say this this m this virtue that we're to add is just simply Christian excellence. If it's anything, it's Christian excellence. Look in Titus chapter 2. In Titus chapter number 2 and verse number 11 The Bible says, for the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men. Now here's virtue, verse twelve, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts We should live soberly, righteously, godly in this present world Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us that He might redeem us from all iniquity and purify unto Himself a peculiar a peculiar people. Zealous of good works. You know what he said? Strive for excellence. Christian excellence. Why are we content with so little in our spiritual lives? Why are we satisfied with Christian substandard? Why do we accept we say, well, I I'm saved, all right, but add virtue. Well, I'm going to heaven. Well, that's wonderful. But have you brought any heaven down in your life? Is there any likeness to the Lord? Is there any virtue here in this Christian excellence? I believe this is what Paul meant when he said, I press toward the mark for the prize, the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Paul didn't want a participation trophy. He wanted to win the prize. Sadly, we live in a day where people, well, I showed up. I deserve an award. Well, hold on. Have you run the race? Paul said, I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith That's virtue. Christian excellence. No Christian should be content with low living, but should seek to excel in Christ and in their Christianity. And so right off the bat, Peter says, through the inspiration of the Spirit of God, add to your faith virtue. Don't set your standards low. Don't shoot low. Say, Lord, by your grace, I want to be all that you want me to be, and I want to See all that you have for me to see, and I want my life to be completely yours and totally yours and given completely over to you. That's virtue. Alright, he said now as you're adding virtue, here's something else. Add knowledge. And by the way, this it this is not education. I believe this is illumination. Add knowledge. What knowledge? Well remember what Paul told Timothy? In 1 Timothy chapter 2, verse 4, he said, Who will have all men to be saved? And come unto the knowledge of the truth. Here's what I need. I need the knowledge of the truth. What is true? You know what's true? If you've got a copy of God's word in your lap, you've got truth. This is the truth And regardless, Dr. Hickson's talking about some things that are hard to understand, and really you can't wrap your head around the miracles of God. That's why they're miracles. If you can figure out a miracle, it's not a miracle. But when you think about what the Lord has done and you sat in wonder of it, what you're doing is you're receiving the truth. Here's the truth. And the truth is found in the Word of God. And here's what the Bible says: add to your faith virtue, to your virtue knowledge. You need to know the truth. Preacher, where do I find the truth? I was studying last week, and as I the phrase got my attention, and it was sitting at his feet. There's about six instances in the Bible where you find that little phrase, sitting at his feet. And I'm going to tell you, you know where you find the truth? You find it sitting at his feet. When you open your Bible with a humbled heart, now listen, if you come to your Bible with your mind made up, you will never find the truth. I got my mind made up, you say. I figured it out. Hold on a minute. God may do some work on your figuring. You ever had God change your math? And this isn't that silly common core stuff either, man. This is the real deal. This is true math. You know, sometimes our math just don't math. I'm glad my children were homeschooled. And uh because their teacher, if she had a problem with the parent helping , she knew where to find him. And there were some things I didn't help them in. When they got into their math exercises, I didn't help them with that. Because I didn't want her to know how ignorant I was, really, about math. So that was her department. But I'm telling you, my friend, listen, beloved, God says, add to your faith knowledge. I should want to know what this book says. For myself. For myself. As an individual, I'm telling you, we are coming quickly into the days where truth is falling in the streets. And it's disregarded as just so much nonsense. But I am glad that the Bible stands, like the old hymn says, like a rock undaunted mid the raging waves of time. And when this world's wrapped up in fire, that book will still be true, and God's truth will still be true, and not one thing me or you or anybody else can do will undo it. Add to your faith knowledge If you're not a student of the Bible, discipline yourself to become one. I don't believe the admonition that Paul gave Timothy is just for preachers. Study to show thyself approved unto God. I believe all of God's people need to be students of their Bible and know the truth so that you can take the Bible and say, this is what I believe. So add to your faith knowledge. But number three, notice we're to add this thing called temperance. Temperance is what we'll call self, pardon me, self-possession. It's the fruit of the Spirit, or one of the manifestations of the fruit of the Spirit. Galatians 5. 23, you find that word temperance there. And what is temperance? It's that spirit-enabled self-control. I like this definition. It means to avoid excess or going to extreme. Have you ever noticed how our flesh is extreme? We live in extremes. Somebody said there's a ditch on both sides of the road, and that's true. And temperance keeps me from being extreme. You know my Bible is the best balancer of my life that I can have. The Bible is a balancer. The Bible calls me from extremes. It brings me to this position of temperance. And I believe one of the greatest things we conquer in life is self. That's your greatest. If you've got self beat, you've won the biggest victory. Because the greatest enemy that you face is your flesh. Dr. Hitchin said, and I had that same illusion. When I was a young Christian, I thought there would get a place where I'd just kind of level out and it wouldn't be so hard. And I remember going to Dr. Sexton Sr. and I said, Preacher, we called him Poppy. I said, Poppy, do you think that there is a place in the Christian life where it gets easy? And he chuckled. He was 78 at that time. He said, let me tell you something, son. He said, the battles I fight now are worse than I've ever fought before. He said, My flesh is just older and meaner. Or at least I'm just more aware of it. Point is I need temperance. I need to add to my faith temperance. A spirit enabled self-control. Listen, self will destroy you. Whatever self it is, religious self, unreligious self, it will destroy you. The only thing that will keep you is the Spirit of the living God. Temperance. Add to your faith temperance. Look at this next one. We all need a double dose of this sometimes. Patience. I'm not praying for it, nor am I asking for it. But I am preaching that we need patience. The word that's used here is in regard to bearing up under trial. It's a hopeful sort of thing. Paul wrote in Hebrews 12, let us run with patience the race that is set before us. There's a need in my life. I've got to add to my faith. Patience, this thing of being able to wait on the Lord and expect and hope that He will work. And again, these are not mere vain hopes, these are realities as we trust in the Lord. We know that he will not fail, like the choir reminded us this morning as they opened, he is able. This thing of patience is an expectant and hopeful waiting on the Lord Patience is not waiting with the bad attitude. It's waiting with the expectation that the Lord will be faithful. You may have shopped at a certain place over in Delaware. Uh oh, what's the name of that place? I don't like to go there because it's so big and You have to spend a lot of time when you go there. Boskov 's. And upstairs in Boscov's, I discovered something really awesome. One half of that place is full of recliners and couches. I have yet to go in there that there's not a line of old men sitting there. Some of them are sitting there, you can tell how old they are by what they're doing. The real old ones that have been married a long time are sitting there asleep. They know they might as well just just make good time of what they're having to do, and those old fellows are sitting there sound asleep. And then every once in a while there's younger ones like myself and man they're fretting. I saw a guy one day he was in a rocking chair and he was doing 90 miles an hour in that thing And you could tell he didn't want to be there and he wanted to get out of there, but he couldn't go till she said, I'm done. Well, that's not patience. Patience is a hopefulness that and an expectation that in the Lord's time he will do what he said he would do. But I can rest and trust in not only the truth of God, but in the timing of God. The Bible tells me when I do the will of God I have need of patience. The Bible tells me in regards to the coming of the Lord, I have need of patience. And the Bible tells me that as I go through trials and tribulations, I need patience. Because the Lord's doing things that only the Lord can do, and I need to wait on the Lord. Quickly, number five. Notice he said add godliness. Add godliness. And this godliness we're going to call it purposeful Christ-likeness. Because to be godly is to imitate Christ. 1 Timothy 3:16 says, Great is the mystery of godliness. Here's the mystery of godliness. It gives you a definition. What is godliness? God was manifest in the flesh. If you want to know what godliness is, look at Jesus and imitate him. Godliness. Would to God we were more interested in being like Jesus than we are the brethren. Or being like Jesus than we are some person we put on a pedestal. Being like Jesus. Brother, sister, there's only one standard, and it's Christ. We're awful unwise to go around measuring ourselves by broken, fallen men. The reality is that Christ is our standard. Add to your faith godliness. Number six, brotherly kindness We're going to call this brotherly kindness a family consideration. Ephesians 4:32 says, And be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another. Even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. It's a family trait. Now look, we live in a day of messed up family. And I'm saying that a family ought to be a place where brotherly kindness is found. A family is a place that's what he's talking about here. Peter's going to Talk more about the family, the family of like precious faith. A family that values their faith in the Lord Jesus, and because others have that same faith in the Lord Jesus, they value that as well. And he says, as you're adding, as you're putting things on your list, make this a priority too, brotherly kindness, because it's necessary. It's a necessary essential. John 13, 35 says, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if you have love one to another. Let me stop here and say it's important that you add this to your faith. It's important that this be a part. Why? Because you represent the Lord. Do you understand that? Every one of you sitting here who are saved and have your sins under the blood of Jesus Christ, you represent the Lord. And when people see you, they're seeing a representation of the Lord. And when the people hear you speak, they hear you speak as a representative of the Lord. And when they watch you live, they watch you live as a representative of the Lord. Oh, brother, sister, add to your faith brotherly kindness. Just because our world is a world full of hatefulness, don't you get caught up in it? You can hate A wrong, a principle, something that's sin, and still have brotherly kindness. Add to your faith. Add this. Add this. It's something desperately needed in this hour. By the way, this brotherly kindness will not only help you in the house of God, it'll help you in your home. Help you in your home. May the Lord help us with that. Brotherly kindness, look at number seven. Add to your faith charity. Add to your faith charity. I'm calling this the crown of love. And by the way, this is not just for the Lord's people, this is for all men. Because Christians are instructed to love their enemies. And we're to pray for them that persecute us and despitefully use us. It's what the Bible says. One old writer said faith leads the van, but charity brings up the rear. Well, something's got to bring up the rear, doesn't it? What better than love? Again, this phrase got my attention. I went off on a on a study of that, and I found that I'm to speak the truth in love, Ephesians 4. 15. Ephesians 5, 2, I'm to walk in love. By the way, that's my disposition. I'm to walk in love. In Galatians 5 13, I'm by love to serve one another. And I love how one preacher put it. He said, if it's not in love, it's not in line. Wasn't that true? There's a lot of things that we can do, but if we don't do them in love, we don't do them in line. You've raised children. I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand if you've ever disciplined them out of anger and not in love. Because every honest hand would go up and say, unfortunately, I have. What comes of that? Nothing. Nothing good. There's no corrective instruction in just an angry outburst. There must be instruction in love. Discipline and love. All that we do, if it's done in love, as as Paul instructed the Corinthian church to deal with sin in the camp. He emphasized, that's why we have chapter 13 right there in the text. He said, do all that you're doing, do it in love, because it makes all the difference in the world. So I'm to add to my faith this charity. Now look, all of these things are invisible in a sense, but they are absolutely essential. You take either of these seven things away, and you have a house built on sand. You have a life built on fallacy. You have a structure that will not stand. Notice what he says back in the text, please. Giving all diligence. Make it your business. Make it your business. Make it a priority. And again, this is telling me that it's my business, it's my interest, it's it's my priority that I must add these things. God expects me to be involved. He expects me to surrender. He expects me to pursue these things and to check myself when these things are not there like they should be, and then to remedy it. I don't have time to go on with this, but if you read verse 8 again, these additions lead to multiplication. I like God's math. It always goes in our favor when we follow it. He said, if these things be in you and abound. There's the multiplied. He said, You you want to be a fruitful Christian? You want to be a Christian that knows something of the abundance? And I believe that goes right back to what he said in John 10, I am come that they might have life, and that more abundantly. But take away those things. Look what happens. Verse 9. He that lacketh these things is blind. Is blind. I don't believe he's speaking of a lost man here. We're in context talking to Christians. He's talking because he says you can forget that you were purged from your old sin. Do you know, and I I fear this, and and and may God help us here. You can go backwards and not forward. Your spiritual life can decline as well as incline. And he says, if you lie, and part of the reason, he says in this text are these seven things, if they're not in us, and abounding in us, then what will happen is we'll we'll become blind and we'll, as the scripture says here, cannot see afar off, and have forgotten that he was purged from his old sins. Verse 10 Wherefore the rather, brethren, instead of that, give diligence to make your calling and election sure. You know, there are some things you need to be serious about. And we ought to be serious about adding these things to our Christian life. I don't know where we got the idea getting saved was the end of the story. That's just the beginning. That's just the reopening of the door, cracking the door, getting saved, and then there is so much more. Be like Joshua getting into the promised land and saying, well, we got Jericho. Let's just settle down, fellas. Well, Jericho is just a start. Dr. Hitchens mentioned 31 kings. That was territory and land. And when Joshua died, there was still land to conquer. There were still places to go. And I'm glad you'll never exhaust as a Christian. You say, well, what if I get to the end of the road? You'll not get to the end of the road. You'll get to the place where you go home to glory, but my friend, you can grow between here and there as much as you will. There's no end to this. Because there's no end of the Lord. No end of the Lord. Doesn't that thrill you? A lot of people are bored with the Lord because they're not walking with him. And he talks about our entrance, for so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. You will go home like you head for home You know, we're quickly moving towards a time when what we are is what we'll be. The book of Revelation teaches us there's coming that time that what you are in that moment of time is what you're going to be. And what I'm trying to say is that the manner in which you head to glory Is dependent upon the manner in which you head the glory. You ever been on a trail ride? I know some have here. You're riding an old horse and they've made this trail a thousand times. Somebody's tell me about a story this week And they said that horse just smoked along and drug its old head and heels and just sort of stumbled until they turned and headed home. And when they headed home, that old nag picked up, and that thing was a racing steed. And it was ready to go to the barn. And buddy, it was all they could do to hold it back. It was headed home. Listen to me. We're heading home. Every one of us here are heading home. I don't care how young or old you are, you're all headed home. We're headed home. And my friend, we ought to be heading home like we're headed home. God help us to live like that. Add to your faith. Brother, sister, are there some things lacking? Let's get a hold of the Lord and say, Lord, help me. Are there some things missing? Lord, search my heart. Are there some things that need to be part of this invisible, essential? And Lord, please, please, Lord. Make up the deficit. Help me to add these things. Help me to add these things. Now, brother, sister, listen, that's for you as a believer. If you're not saved, you can try to add all you want to add, and it just won't add All your efforts are vain. What you need to do if you're not saved is trust Jesus Christ and be born again. In a very childlike faith, cry out to him who saves to the uttermost. Trust him. He'll save you. That's the beauty of this, is that he'll save you There's no conditions. He's met all the conditions. There's no requirements. He's met all the requirements. All the laws fulfilled in the person of Jesus Christ. He's the answer for my sin. Trust him today. Don't leave here on your way to hell. Don't leave here lost in your sin, dead in your trespasses, without hope in God. Christ has made a way. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Be saved this morning. Be saved today. And dear Christian, let's ask the Lord to help us, please. Let's ask the Lord to do something in our hearts. Is there some things the Holy Ghost said, you know, you need to add some knowledge. You need to add temperance. You need to add charity. You need to add patience. You need to add godliness. You need to add, brother. What is it? What is it that we need to add? Let's let him have his way, could we? Stand with me, please. Father, help us now as we wait. It's best we know how, Lord, and surrender before you. And have your way in our hearts, Lord. I pray this morning if there's somebody in this gathering who listens to this broadcast and they're not born again. Oh Father, please do thy deep convicting work. Bring them to a place of repentance towards God and faith in Jesus Christ. I pray this morning for your people. I pray for us. I pray for me. Help us, Lord Search us, Lord. I pray that we'd add the things that need to be added in our lives. Dear Lord, I thank you that you've given us such a book as the Bible, and may we bow our knee and surrender to it. May truth prevail in our lives. I plead the blood over my brothers and sisters, Lord, and I pray, Father, that you would help them right where they are. For Lord, that's where you meet us, right where we are. So help us to have tender hearts to you and have your way in your will and we ask these things in Jesus' name