Father please to the book of Colossians, Colossians chapter number one, and I'm going to begin reading down in verse number thirteen. Colossians chapter number one and beginning in verse number 13. And if you're able, would you stand with me please as we honor the reading of God's Word? Colossians chapter number one and verse number thirteen, the Bible says, Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness? And have translated us into the kingdom of His dear Son, in whom we have redemption through His blood, even the forgiveness of sins. Who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature? For by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth. Visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by Him and for Him. And he is before all things, and by him all things consist. And he is the head of the body, the church. who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he might have the preeminence. For it pleased the Father that in him should all fullness dwell. Now, the text I want to get to eventually here this evening is verse number 18, and the latter part of verse number 18. Where the Bible says that in all things he might have the preeminence. Father, help us, please. As we study your word and listen for your voice, and I pray that Lord should not only give us ears to hear, but hearts that will obey. Lord, in these moments we have together, would you hide us behind the cross and help us to lift up Jesus? And may Lord you always, may Christ always have preeminence. Lord, not only in our lives, but in our congregation, and truly in all things. For it's in his mighty name we pray, and God's people say it. Amen. You can be seated. I want to begin by trying to define this thing of preeminence. The Bible says that in all things he might have the preeminence. Of course, that He is the Lord Jesus Christ. The word preeminence is a word that let me give you several definitions. The first one means to be first in rank. To be first in rank or to be first in influence. That's preeminence. Another definition would say that it is surpassing all others, superior. Uh the definition that I've chosen to emphasize this evening is this the highest place above all to the point that nothing or no one else can even come close. That's Jesus. That's his place. That in all things he might have the preeminence. He holds a place that nobody else can even come close to. He holds a place and is a person that none can even hope to even just come a little bit underneath. He's Higher than all and greater than all. As the Bible describes him, he's the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And that again in all things he might have the preeminence. Just by way of introduction, I want to go through some of these verses and look at his preeminence. I want you to see first his preeminence in salvation. His preeminence in salvation. There are four things that verse 13 and 14 tell us that only he can do. Nobody else can come close. No one else can even get near to what he alone can do in salvation. Look at verse 13. Number one, he delivers us. From the power of darkness. Nobody else can do that. He's preeminent in salvation because it takes the Lord Jesus to deliver you from the power of darkness. Number two, you see it here in the text, he translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. He dug you up out of the soil of sin and put you into the kingdom of his son. Now only he can do that. His preeminence in salvation is seen in that not only does he deliver us, but he translates us into the kingdom. Now, this is not a kingdom you can get into apart from the work of God. And so he translates us. Number three, he redeems us through his blood. You see that in the text? Verse number 14: in whom we have redemption through his blood. I'm bought with a price. You're bought with a price as a Christian. There's no one else. There's no other sacrifice that could be made. There's no other Price that could be paid. Peter said it like this. We're not redeemed by corruptible things as silver and gold. There's no purchasing of your salvation with some monetary thing. Salvation is bought by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's in him. And in Him alone that we have redemption. Now He's preeminent in that because only His blood can save. That's why the sacrifices of the Jewish people uh cease, there's no longer a need, there's no longer a reason, there's nothing, you can't kill a lamb and be saved, and you can't take a sacrifice and shed its blood and pay for your sin. Only Jesus' blood redeems. So you've been bought, and that's that's his preeminence in salvation. But notice this, he goes on to say in verse number fourteen, even The forgiveness of sins. Aren't you glad this evening there is someone who can forgive sin? And it's only Jesus. That power is not entrusted to the church, and that power is not entrusted to the church To a priest, that power is not entrusted to the Pope. That power is not entrusted to any human on this earth. There is just one person who forgives sin. And that's the Lord Jesus Christ. He's preeminent in salvation. In fact, take the Lord Jesus away, and there's no such thing as salvation. Because the Lord Jesus is salvation. Here's what he said in John 14, 6. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And no man can come to the Father but by me. He's preeminent in salvation. But number two, he doesn't stop there. He emphasizes this. That the Lord Jesus is preeminent in creation. He's preeminent in creation. Look at verse 15: who is the image of the invisible God? The firstborn of every creature. For by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth. visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him And he is before all things, and by him all things consist. He's preeminent in creation. You'll notice that he's called the firstborn. I don't believe this speaks to his beginning, for the Bible teaches us he was from the beginning. A unique name was given to him by Isaiah in prophecy when Isaiah said he's the everlasting Father. The everlasting Father. Another unique name that's given to the Lord Jesus is the Ancient of Days, having no beginning and no ending. And so this firstborn, you say, what is it? I believe this literally means the bringer forth of all things. He's the bringer forth of all creatures. Was it Jeremiah who said, or excuse me, David who said, All my springs are in thee? All the beginnings of all that there is finds it in the firstborn. He's the reservoir of life. Everything that lives and moves and has its being traces its roots back towards him. He's the firstborn. He's the one by whom all things come forth. And so not only is he the firstborn, but look, it says he's the creator. Verse 16, For by him were all things created. I know on several reserves, when we would be talking to uh native peoples, they like to use that term creator. The great creator. One man we were talking to, he said, didn't the creator give us a beautiful day? I said, he did. Do you know his name? Well, he's the creator. I said, I know, but he's got a name. You know what his name is? His name is Jesus. Because the Bible says by him all things were created. He's the creator. And listen, all that were made, all that was made, was made at his leisure and his pleasure. He goes on to tell us there that all things were created by him and for him. Can I say this removes the possibility of theistic evolution? I'm amazed at some of the silly things that are catching hold among uh the saints of the Lord, and this is one of them, theistic evolution. What do you mean? I mean that Men believe that God started the process of evolution. And he sort of just put it all in motion. He was the bang behind the big bang. And that he is the one that set it all in motion. And now it just continues to carry on without his intervention. But my Bible says he created all things. The Bible makes it clear that that that thing of fe and by the way, if you're getting your theology off of the internet Find you a good church and get in it and listen to God's word preached by a shepherd that loves you and stop listening to these fools on the internet that are teaching things that are crazy. A lot of this if you re who you've been listening to? Who you've been listening to? Just there's so many crazy things that are being taught anymore. And and I'll tell you what, you can trace it back. They're listening to someone that's got some loony idea that didn't come out of the Word of God Theistic evolution is a loony idea. It goes against what God said. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And he didn't need two million years or ten million years or three hundred million years. You really examine evolution, you begin to see all the holes in it. I was telling yesterday about an evangelist we had visit with us, and we went to one of the world, the UNESCO World Heritage Sites. It's called Joggins Fossil Cliffs. And we only lived about 20 miles from the fossil cliffs. And in that structure, there's a fossilized tree that stands about 80 feet up the cliff wall. And we're on the tour, we got a tour, he wanted to hear what they had to say, and we went through the museum there, and we went down on the beach and This lady's waxing eloquent about how this tree is millions of years old and how each of the layers in this fossil clip represents so many millions of years And this gentleman raised his hand. He said, I got a question. How did that tree stand for 50 million years until all of those layers were put down? And she didn't have an answer for him. In fact, she after he asked a few more questions, she said, Do you believe the Bible? Are you one of those? And she she wouldn't let him speak anymore in that crowd. You know why she didn't have an answer? Logic tells you that tree's not going to stand 50 million years. until it's fully petrified. In fact, petrification takes instant pressure and great, great heat oftentimes to formulate wood into this stone form. In fact I I have a piece Probably shouldn't say it on the internet, but I know where there is a piece of petrified wood that came from a certain place And it's amaz it is stone, but you can see the wood structure and the grain and all of that in it. And what I'm trying to say is this, my friend, God doesn't need Man's intelligence to complement his omnipotence. If he said, I created all things, then beloved, you can rest assured he created all things And so we see he's the creator. We see his preeminence in creation. He's the firstborn. He's the creator. And then verse 17 tells me he's the sustainer. He is before all things, and by him all things consist. Know this. He's holding it all together. He's holding it all together. Don't let climate fear put you in a tailspin. It ought to be properly named uh a climate scam. You aren't holding the environment together. And I don't care what you do or don't do, you're not going to destroy this earth. God will. You know that? Now look, some of you put more stock in what the scientists say than what the scriptures say, and the Bible says by him all things consist. You study that word, he's the glue holding it together. And it's not going to unravel. I don't care what man does, how many Cadillacs he drives or jets he flies. Man is not going to do, undo what God has decreed. God said, one of these days I'm going to burn it up. And by the way, he don't need your help or mine in doing it. He's going to do it supernaturally. Supernaturally. The fire from heaven is not going to need dry kindling wood to burn. You know that? You build a fire, you gotta have kindling wood. And it better be dry or you're gonna be a long time lighting it. I took Joe out on the marsh one time and it was probably what, minus twenty, thirty somewhere in there And we were hunting and I said, after we get through we'll build us a fire and we'll get warm and we'll enjoy the day. And we hunted a couple of hours and We both were getting a little cold and I said, Start gathering up some kindling and we'll build us a fire here. And I'd gotten one of those strikers and I was gonna show him what a woodsman I was and we were gonna light us a fire Problem was we had freezing rain the day before. Everything's coated nice. And even the birch trees, and normally a birch bark, you can light that any time, but when it's covered in ice, you're not going to light it And so we sat there and I kept sparking. We pulled grass up. We did everything we could. And after about 45 minutes of that, he said, Dad, why don't you call mom? I'm getting cold. Get somebody to come rescue us, you know. And I said, you know what? That's a good idea. So mom came to our rescue and put us in a warm vehicle and took our hides home. But listen, God doesn't need this so-called climate change to warm the earth so that He can set it on fire. He can flood it again and then burn it up in the next instance. That's the God he is, church. That's the power that he has. By him all things consist. Listen, no one comes close to him or rises above him in creation. He stands alone. Number three, we see not only his preeminence in salvation, his preeminence in creation, but look at his preeminence in the congregation. Now, this is where our message is His preeminence in the congregation. Verse number eighteen says he is the head of the body, the church who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he might have the preeminence, for it pleased the Father that in him should all fullness dwell. Why don't you notice his position? He's the head. What does that mean? That means he's the controller of the body. He's the head. And you know something? A church that is under the control of any other head is out of order. He's the head. Now listen, I I I understand I've been around this long enough to know that there are a lot of little heads that like to be in control. A lot of little heads. Sometimes it's the pastor. The Bible calls them lords over God's heritage, and he condemns it justly. Now, leadership and headship are two different things. Leadership is needed in any organization, and that's the responsibility of the pastor. Headship belongs to the Lord Jesus because He alone controls the body. He's the head. He's the head. You know this? There's all sorts of little heads. Deacon boards will try to be a head. Say, I'm going to be in control. Well, I've got news for you. That's out of order. There's one head, his name's Jesus. And it and it operates, the church operates under the authority of the head, the Lord Jesus Christ. Someone said anything with two heads is a freak. I don't know how to say that any plainer. Anything with two heads is not normal. Mark, I remember working on the dairy one time. We had a calf born with two heads. You know that thing lived about three days. Both little heads moved, both little heads looked around. It was the weirdest-looking thing I've ever seen. But it could not live in that fashion because its body was out of order. And it soon perished. Any church that doesn't have one head will perish eventually. He's the head. But notice not only is his position mentioned here, but his resurrection. Look what it says. He is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead. Now, though the Lord Jesus is unseen, that does not mean he's not present Though you and I can't lay physical eyes on him, according to Revelation chapter number one, he's walking among his candlesticks, his churches. The Lord Jesus is very present among his people. Although you can't see him, does not negate him nor remove him from being among his children. Why? Because we serve a risen Savior. We don't have a dead God. Our God is not laying in a tomb somewhere. And listen, we need to remember that more than just once a year. We need to be reminded continually that He lives, He lives, Christ Jesus lives today. His resurrection, He's the beginning and the firstborn from the dead. That also reminds me that I'm dealing with a living head. He 's alive. And working in his assembly of peoples. But number three, I want you to see the manifestation. Now watch what it says: that in all things he might have the preeminence. I've got circled in Colossians chapter 1, at least down here to verse number 19, all the alls. You notice how many times he says all? In verse 9, he talks about all wisdom. Verse 10, all pleasing. Verse 11, all might. Verse 11, all patience. Verse 16, all things. Verse 16, again, all things. Verse 17, all things. Twice, all things. Verse 18, all things. And verse 19, all fullness That's a whole lot of alls, isn't it? But what is the significance of all Now you don't have to be a scholar to understand this. Sister Hitchens gave me a good definition a long time ago. All means all, and that's all means. Did I get it right? That's all. It nothing excluded. You know what he's saying? He's saying, I want preeminence in everything. Now the context is congregation. The context is the local church, the congregation of his peoples, and here's what he says, that I might that that In all things he might have the preeminence. The Lord Jesus is to have a place nobody else has. He's to have a place that nobody else can even come close to. He's to have a place that's above everyone and everything and all that's imaginable. That's the kind of place he has, that in all things he might have preeminence. Now, here's the message: four things. Number one, this ought to be a principle that guides us. Here's a rule. And you know, I think we often add to rules on top of rules because we don't like some of the rules and we want to have a loophole in the rules But can I say here's a rule that'll cover all rules in all things that he might have the preeminence Every facet of church life he ought to be preeminent. Every aspect of me every every part of our congregation Listen, if we followed this one principle, it would be a cure for a thousand ills if he had preeminence. Not in all things. It doesn't matter if we're talking about the music, or we're talking about the messages, or we're talking about our manners, or we're talking about our mode of operation, that in all things he might have the preeminence. Church, if he had the preeminence in all things, how differently A church would look. I mean, if he had preeminence. If he held a place that nobody else held. And he was above all and over all and working in all so that all could just simply see the Lord Jesus Christ in all of his beauty and glory. That's what it means. That's the principle that we're seeking to live by. Make a difference in our homes. Make a difference in our lives. Make a difference in all that we do. If in all things he had the preeminence. Giving him his way, giving him his place. But number two, not only is it a principle that guides, but I want you to see this: here is protection from error. When he's preeminent, you can't go wrong. Now think about this Theology that minimizes the Lord Jesus always the other extreme and maximizes man. Anything that tries to humanize the Lord will often deify man. And listen, all these isms and schisms that come along are a result of Jesus Christ not having the preeminence. Let me ask you this. Is there anything in your system of beliefs that's bigger than Jesus? A lot of people have to say yes. What in your system of belief is greater than? Do you know there are people that their standards are greater than their Savior? It's wrong truth, wrong path. There's a lot of people that their personal preferences, you know, listen, do you know prophecy can become one of these things? Prophecy can be one of those things that'll get bigger to you than Jesus, and I'll tell you what I've seen happen a time and time again. People start looking for the Antichrist than the true Christ, and they get off course spiritually. They get out of sorts, they get spiritually uh warped, and next thing you know, they're not even living for God. You know why? Something got bigger than Jesus. If anything in your Bible gets bigger to you than Jesus, you need to get in your Bible in a whole different way. Van Sabner was just a young man, a boy preacher, they called him. I think he started pastoring when he was 16, and uh don't recommend that for anybody. But he was pastoring when he was sixteen years old, and he got mesmerized by that fellow up in New York who uh was big in that day, started a social gospel idea. Uh Fosjak, I believe was his last name. And he wrote all these books, and old Habner said, I started reading them and I started getting immersed in them. And he said, the next thing you know, all that man's teaching got bigger to me than Jesus Christ. And he had what a lot of people don't have, he had a sound church. And his men come together and said, Pastor, you're not preaching the Bible. You're preaching something other than the Lord, and they turned him out. I think Habner was about twenty one when they turned him out. And he went home. And he said when he got home, he was so brokenhearted and disappointed. He said he locked all his books up in a cabinet. And for six months he stayed there in his room and he studied his Bible. He said, I studied my Bible until Jesus got bigger than anything I had believed. He said, I studied my Bible until the greatest theology I had was built around the person of Jesus Christ. He said, I came out of that time a transformed man. Now get this, that church called him back. He said, God made me go back there and tell it like it is, because I hadn't been telling it like it was. And he made me go do it again for five more years. Well, thank God for that. But you know what happened to him if the Bible put his theology in line. I'm gonna tell you something, Church. I'm worried about some folks because their theology is out of line. It's out of line because they're believing something some man said rather than what the Word of God says. And you can't study this Bible from Genesis to Revelation and walk away without being mesmerized by the person of Jesus Christ. And the more you study it, the bigger he gets, and the more you see who he truly is. Boy, it's a protection from error. Any little pet truth can become a little pope in your spiritual life. Any, any little pet truth. Nothing should take the place of the Lord Jesus Christ. You know why? My Bible says it's in him I live. And movement have my being. He's the resource of my soul. I don't have life apart from Jesus Christ. And he said, Eat my body, drink my blood. In other words, he said, live on me. Your life depends on me. And when you try to live on something other than Jesus You'll go astray. You'll go astray. Hear me. I I hope it's not a message of warning to someone, but know this anything you put up bigger than the Lord Jesus, you're going to go astray. It bothers me that we're living in a day where much of the plain teaching of God's word is laid aside because some Johnny Cum lately has found something that nobody else has ever seen. I've got news for you. If it's new, it ain't true. And if it's true, it ain't new. That may be bad English, but it's real good preaching. Because it's the truth. There is nothing new under the sun. Know this. It's protection from error. Number three, quickly, it's practical in exercise. It's practical. Say what do you mean by that? Everyday life is to be affected by observing this truth. If in all things he had the preeminence, you know what would end? Well, let's name a few power struggles. Why, preacher, those don't happen in church, do they? It's like termites fighting over an ant heel. What do they got when they win, you know? We're talking about power struggles. You know, all that dies when you realize he's preeminent. All the pride. The religious pride is all abased when he has preeminent. When he's the preeminent one, all men take the same position That's down low at his feet. Because there's nowhere else to be. When you realize who he is, we all got to lock arms and say, God have mercy And get on our face before Him. All the prides abas. All of our personal agendas are absolved when He's preeminent. All the things that that I want to do. And I'll tell you it was a liberating thing to me when the Lord Stitched into my soul the reality that it's his church, it's his will, it's his work. Now that doesn't mean we have a burden, or don't have a burden, or don't have a desire to see God do things or a vision, but we subject all of that to His will. Because his will may be different than my will. His end result may be completely different in formation than my end result. And what I want and what I wish and what I desire. And the same goes for all of us as God's people. We have our own wants and wishes and all of that. I years ago when our little church up north started growing had some people say, I I I don't want the church to be no bigger than and they set a number. I said, well, I don't know who left the throne and gave you the scepter, but it's his church Grow it or shrink it. It's his business. And his preeminence says it's his will, not mine. See how practical that thing is? All these things will will bow to his preeminence. Our personal struggles and battles and all of that will just die. In the light of his preeminence. You know, John was talking about his exile in Revelation 1. Do you know it's never mentioned again after he saw the Lord? There's a lot of stuff big to you that just says God's not big enough to you There's a lot of stuff that's big to you. There's a lot of stuff maybe you're saying, well, preacher, you you you don't know this. I heard somebody talking about something years ago, and and I was convinced it happened last week, and when I got to digging a little bit, it happened 40 years ago. But it was big. I mean it was big. It was big enough. That lady she got up, marched out of the church, and I went to see her the next day And she talked about all this thing these people had done, and if that family comes to this church, I won't come to that church. And I I got to ask it around. I said, When did that happen? Well it didn't happen in my lifetime. It happened to my grandparents. I'm like, what? Listen to me. If some of you sitting here, there's stuff in your life that's a whole lot bigger than God. And it might have it might be something somebody said or something somebody's done or some little thing you're hanging on to, and that's preeminent in your life. That's the biggest thing in your life right now. And I'm here to tell you, if you'll see this that Jesus alone is to be preeminent, all that stuff will burn up in the bright light of his holy countenance. Look at old look at look at look at John there. He he talked about being there exiled uh because of the testimony of the Lord Jesus that Jesus shows up and shows out and shows him himself and all he's talking about, what's the Lord getting ready to do? That's what I need in my life. I'm not exempt I've often said this, and you pray God will help me with this. I don't want to be a bitter old preacher. I know a lot of them. Because you live long enough, you'll get enough shots in you. That it's awful easy to get bitter. And I I I sometimes you know I I love our preacher's fellowships and And uh but preachers are sometimes the worst ones in the world sitting around and look talk about scars, look at her wounds, show our battle marks. I'm I'm here to tell you, friend, there's something bigger than all that. What's been done to you is not near as important as who it is that rules over you. And when you get a glimpse of the preeminent one, when you realize that in all things he might have the preeminence. All that stuff just burns up in the glory of the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because no matter what's been done or what's been said, he's still good and he's still God. And it doesn't change him one I owned. Bless his wonderful name. The great concern amongst God's people is that the Lord be pleased and be preeminent. Number four. It pleases the Father when He's preeminent. Look what it says in verse 19 For it pleased the Father that in him should all fullness dwell. I don't know about you, but that ought to be motivation enough. To readjust my life to where he alone is preeminent. And that may mean repenting of some sin and something that I've put in his place. And getting that thing back in its proper perspective. You know, there's a lot of things that get big because you pay attention to them. You ever get a rock in your shoe? And the more you think about how that feels, the harder it is to keep walking. It's amazing to me the things that that that bother us because we're constantly looking at them. And what I'm trying to say is that don't please the Father. He put all the fullness in the Son. That's what it says. It pleases the Father that him all fullness should dwell. Boy, that's a whole nother message, but he's the fullness that fills all in all. And listen, he he again has been given such a preeminent spot in such a place, and the Bible makes it very clear here that it pleases God when He's given that place a preeminence. Do you want the smile of heaven on you? Recognize the preeminence of the Lord Jesus. Does Marinatha Baptist Church want to be a church that God's pleased with, that God can bless and work? Well then Let's make sure that we're recognizing the place that Jesus alone holds, that He alone is preeminent. Don't let some little petty or pitiful thing get bigger in your life or bigger in your thinking or Bigger in your theology or bigger in your mind than the Lord Jesus Christ. Give him the preeminent spot alone It pleases the Father. Now, Christian , he is preeminent, by the way. You don't give him permission to be preeminent. He's preeminent already. But you profit from it when you recognize it. And submit to it. When you realign your person, your life, your thinking, your truth, your belief, when you realign all of that stuff and you say what? Jesus is preeminent. And I bow my knee to who he is and the place he holds and the truth that he teaches. And I recognize that's when I start profiting from the preeminence of the Lord Jesus. God orchestrated the church to be a place where Christ is preeminent. And by the way, a church is nothing more than an assembly of believers. And know this, believer, he's to be preeminent in each of our lives. Now the question is: is he preeminent? I'm going to tell you, I don't doubt that there's something that needs to be put on the altar before God and say, Lord, I'm sorry. This was preeminent in my life. It it may not be something you've done. It may be something that's been done to you, and you're making it bigger than him It may be, it may be that something that you've got fascinated with and something that you've got infatuated by And all of a sudden that thing's bigger than the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm saying to you, friend, anything that's bigger than Jesus in your life is a sin and needs to be confessed as such and laid out before the Lord. and be forgiven and put away so that he alone can have the preeminence. May the Lord help us to let him have his way. In our hearts here this evening. Would you stand with me? Father, we're asking now just for a sober and a very serious time of invitation that you