You take your copy of the Word of God and turn to Revelation one. Revelation one. And I'd like to begin reading here, excuse me, in verse number. Nine Revelation One Verse number 9, if you found your place, let's stand together as we honor the reading of God's Word. The Bible says, I, John, who also am your brother and companion in tribulation, and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ. was in the Isle that is called Patmos for the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet. Saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last, and what thou seest, write in a book and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia unto Ephesus, unto Smyrna, and unto Pergamos, and unto Thyatyron, unto Sardis, unto Philadelphia, and unto Laodicea. I turned to see the voice that spake with me. And being turned I saw seven golden candlesticks And in the midst of the seven candlesticks, one like unto the Son of Man, clothed with a garment down to the foot, girt about the taps with a golden girdle. His head and his hairs were white like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes were as a flame of fire His feet burned like undefined brass, as if they burned in a furnace, and his voice as the sound of many waters. And he had in his right hand seven stars, and out of his mouth went a sharp two edged sword. And his countenance was as the sun shineth in his strength. Now look at this. When I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not. I am the first and the last. I am he that liveth and was dead. And behold, I'm alive forevermore. Amen. And have the keys of hell and death. Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter. The mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in thy in my right hand. And the seven golden candlesticks, the seven stars of the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches. I want to look at this manifestation here of the Lord Jesus made to John on this Isle of Patmos. And then I want us to look at the first the description. I just want to give you this briefly. We're going to look at the description of the Lord Jesus. Then we're going to look at the expansion of this manifestation because Revelation 2 and 3, he speaks to the churches. But he doesn't show anything new or say anything new. He simply takes what he's already shown John and says, now this is who I am. And this applies to where you're at. And then I want to make an application tonight as we look at this. So let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father, we come in Jesus' name, and we're so very thankful that we can come to the throne of grace. Through the Lord Jesus who loved us and gave himself for us. And Father, would you help us these few moments we have together? Lord, you've already said there's a blessing attached to the reading of this particular book. I thank you for that blessing. It's blessed us already, really. But Lord, I pray that you'd help us now in our understanding. Would you help us to see the unity of this book, the unity of the revelation of Jesus Christ? Would you open the eyes of our understanding and be our teacher? We all bow our heads and confess we need thee. Now Lord, we'll give you the glory for what you do. Hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. And may your will be done in this gathering, for it's in his mighty name we pray and ask these things. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. Let me remind you as we start our study tonight that the key to the whole book is found in five little words in chapter 1, verse 1. The revelation of Jesus Christ. I want to remind you that whether we're studying the tribulation or we're studying the uh millennial reign or whether we're studying the Antichrist, and we're studying all the goings on on earth. The point of the revelation is this to reveal Jesus Christ. It's all about Him. If you study this book and don't see that it's about Him, you've missed the point of Revelation. The revelation's not meant to give you some secret insight. on things to come. It's meant to for you to see who Jesus really is. And so as we do, as we study, keep that please in the back of your mind. But here's John. And I want you to notice that John, where he's at, he teaches us here that he's on the Isle of Patmos. And he begins to describe the Lord Jesus. Now, would you think with me for a few minutes the last time they saw him The last time they saw him, he was ascending up into heaven. The last time they saw him, he was glorified, resurrected. Man in his body, the man Christ Jesus. When they saw him in the upper room, they realized that this is the man that was nailed to the cross. This is the man that they took down off of the cross and laid in the tomb. He was in his glorified body, and that glorified body had more abilities than our old bodies do. We know that when he came into the upper room, he didn't go through the door, he just appeared. But we also know that his body was much like our bodies in the sense that he sat down on the seashore and ate with these men. But yet it was his his man , his body, his manhood body, he was ascended up into heaven. That's the last sight they saw. The last time they saw Jesus, it was that man going up, that God man, but still that man going up into the glory world. Fast forward many years. John's on the Isle of Patmos, and he's in the Spirit on the Lord's day. That's another good reason to be full of the Holy Ghost when you come to church Because John, that's a pattern, John was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. And as he was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, God made himself known. The Lord Jesus made himself known to John. And when John sees him, would you notice with me the location? He is in the midst. Not midst, M-I-S-T, but in the midst. That means fair in the middle. Just right in the middle. He's in the middle. What's in the middle of seven golden candlesticks? And when John sees him, John sees a man. He sees not just a man, he sees something far different, but he sees that he's in the midst of the golden candlesticks. And later he would tell him, now John, those seven golden candlesticks are the seven churches of Asia. And so remember this that the Lord Jesus is always in the midst of his people. He's in the midst of his church. That's where Jesus is. He he's, and I don't know about you, but I won't be where he is. I want to be where he is. And he was in the midst. And notice this, that's exactly where he was as John would see this manifestation. And then John goes on to begin to describe him. And I want you to see this ninefold description. First, we're introduced to the fact that his garments, his garment was one garment, we're told here. And that he had a golden girdle. And I believe this is a representation of two things, his priestly duty and his deity and personhood. Gold in the Bible always speaks of God or in a Godward direction. And so here he is, dressed in a sense as the high priest. The great high priest, remember what Hebrews says, he's the high priest who's passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God We have a great high priest. We have one who advocates for us, who is interceding on our behalf. And there he is. And John turns and he sees and he sees this garment. from head to foot, and he sees the golden girdle, he sees the high priest, he sees the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ. Far different than what John saw go up into glory. Far different than what John saw leave this earth. And you say, but it's the same. Yes, it's the same, but it's a whole different setting. Same individual, same Savior, but now he's been glorified. The throne gift of the Spirit of God's come down on Pentecost. Jesus has been enthroned in the heavens above, and now he's robed in those royal robes, and John sees him like that. Isn't that something? By the way, that's how you'll see it. That's how we'll see it. Notice with me, he goes on to describe his head and his hairs. Verse 14 says, His head and his hairs were white like wool, as white as snow. White as snow. That speaks of purity. You say, how do you know that? Well, Isaiah said, come now, let us reason together. And he used this thing of wool and snow, reminding us what the blood of Jesus Christ can do, can make us pure. And I'm glad there's no spot nor blemish in my king. Now listen, every human leader is frail and full of faults. Don't matter who they are. They have faults. There's no such thing as a faultless leader. But there is such a thing as a faultless Savior. He's pure. Pure. John saw him in his purity. And then we're told that his eyes were as a flame of fire. Someone said that flame of fire represents the all-searching gaze of God. Nothing's hidden to his vision. Listen, he sees all. The night hides nothing from the Lord. His eyes are as a flame of fire. He searches He knows the thoughts and the intents of the heart. In fact, David said he knows my thoughts before I think them when they're afar off. That comforts me. Sometimes my thoughts are far off, and I can't get them to come near. But he knows them, amen. He knows them. That's the the the flame the eyes with the flame of fire. Now vision with me, would you use your use your sanctified imagination And think with me what John's seeing. John turns, he hears something. And when he turns around, there he is. There's the Lord Jesus. John thinks all alone that he's there by himself. John thinks that that I've been abandoned. I'm out here forsaken on the Isle of Patmos. But yet on that wonderful Lord's day, as he's in the Spirit, Jesus manifests himself. Can I remind you what Jesus said when he went back to heaven before he went back to heaven? That that the Spirit of God would come and and and make his abode in us, he would come and live inside of us. And he said, the Father and I will manifest ourselves, we'll manifest to you. In other words, we'll make ourselves known. Listen, God is more than a theological concept. The God of heaven is more than just something we believe in that is stoned, cold, dead, and doesn't ever make himself known. I'm glad he'll make himself known to his people. And you, like John, can see him for who he is. So John begins to see him, this description of him. Notice his feet like undefined brass, as if they burned in a furnace. Brass in the Bible is a medal of judgment. Speaks of the judgment of God. Here the Lord Jesus is, what does that old song say, trampling out the vintage where the grapes of wrath are stored? Here's what the Lord the Lord Jesus in his feet of judgment. By the way, Satan got a taste of that brass foot. He got a taste of it on Calvary when he got his old head crushed. And one day he's going to get a taste of it again, my friend, when he gets exiled into the lake of fire and when he's cast away forever. Thank God our God's the God of judgment. And all the rebels of the earth that rise up and to make war with the Lamb of God are going to taste that same foot as he marches over and conquers his enemies. John saw that those feet, if you will, that of fine brass that burned in a furnace. Said, notice this, and his voice as the sound of many waters. Can you imagine what John heard? We can't It was an overwhelming thing. First time I saw Niagara Falls, it it it sh it shakes you up on the inside. When you get close, you know, we could hear the thing roaring. We we parked on the American side. We were living in Canada, but they told us to go to the American side is a better view, which actually wasn't true. The Canadian side had the prettier view In my opinion. That's just my opinion. But anyway, and so we're walking down the hill and as we're going down the hill, this it starts roaring and roaring and and then the closer you get, if you've been there, you know what it's like. And and just that that that inside, I mean it shakes your innards, you know. And you're just roaring. I I remember Sarah, it I I think it unnerved her a little bit. She never liked anything loud and And it just made everything in you tremble. And do you know what? That pales in comparison to his voice. His voice is such a magnificent voice. The Bible tells us that his voice shakes the wilderness, makes the hinds the calf. We're talking about a voice that's got great power. It must be a powerful voice, because in the beginning he said, let there be light and there was light. That's some voice now. Can you imagine that voice as he speaks, the sound of many waters? No wonder John fell at his feet as dead. Oh my, he was overwhelmed. His senses were overcome. There's nothing else to do but hit your face and say, I'm before God Himself. And then notice this in his right hand. We get a glimpse of his right hand. It says, and he had, verse 16, and he had in his right hand seven stars. Seven stars. That right hand is the hand of God's complete control. When John looked up, now by the way, we're going to talk about these churches in a minute because They are a part of this manifestation, but as we look at the manifestation of the Lord Jesus to John, John sees that his right hand's got the stars in them, that he's in complete control. God 's right hand is his strong hand, according to the scripture. It's that that arm that he bears in power. When God bears his right hand, when he bears his right arm, that's the arm of power. John sees that hand, oh, how he holds those seven stars or messengers in his hands. And then notice this, it speaks of his mouth. He said, out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword. Out of his mouth. And we know that the scriptures are called sharper than a two-edged sword. You know why they are sharper than a two-edged sword? Because they're his words. They're words from his mouth. The Bible is not the words of man, it's the word of God. And what we have written on these pages is something that came not from men and from the minds of men, but it came from the very mouth of God. Aren't you thankful for the Bible? John saw that word. By the way, John's going to see more about it because in the uh last day when he manifests himself to this old earth and puts down the enemy, his his word 's gonna be like a sword that'll go out and annihilate the enemy. Sharper than a two-edged sword. Don't think for a minute that the Bible needs your help to prop it up. It'll get the job done. The older I get and the more I preach, the more I realize it has nothing to do with the preacher but what he preaches. That this is the power. This is what makes the difference. This is what convicts. This is what converts. This is what consecrates. This gets the job done. And thank God for his word. And he he saw that sharp, two-edged sword coming out of his mouth, and then I like this, and his countenance If you let me say it like this, that was his whole appearance. His whole appearance was as the sun shineth in his strength. Now let me ask you something. Don't do this, please. But but do you know how impossible it is to look at the sun at noonday and all of its strength? I told Elizabeth, I think it was Friday when the sun first came out. It was a pretty day. And we were driving. I said, is it is it extra bright today or is You know, did you notice that this week? We've been in the gray, cloudy, dreary old time of of year. And then when that sun came out, it was like, ooh, I've been living in a cave or something, you know. I need something to shield my eyes. Man, it was bright. But can you imagine being in the presence of God? He his countenance was as the sun that shineth. And that immediately reminds me of of Saul on the road to Damascus when when the Bible tells us he saw a great light. And it laid him out blind. John would witness this and see the Lord. You know, words really fail Words fail to describe the undescribable one. Have you noticed what we have is like and as, like and as, like and as? All we can do is say, well, he's kind of like this. He's sort of as this. But can I say to you, he's beyond the likes, and he's beyond the as. He's a whole lot more than all of that. The sun is just like a mere flickering star millions of miles away compared to the light of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. What a savior is our blessed Lord. And we have a manifestation here, the description of the Lord Jesus. But but John doesn't stop there. Because starting in chapter 2, can I read a few of these? Revelation chapter 2, verse 1, under the angel of the church of Ephesus, right. Watch this now. These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. Have you heard that before? Sure you have. That's what John saw. That's what John's already recorded He said, tell that group over in Ephesus, tell that, by the way, all seven of these churches were very local, vital churches. They're not imaginary, they're not figurative, they're literal churches. They're assemblies of believers that had gathered together and and Jesus said, I got a message for them, and make sure you let them know who's sending the message. The Lord don't write anonymous letters. Amen. I was telling brother yesterday, I said, I've got more anonymous letters as pastor of Marinath Baptist Church than I've had in my whole life. I got a file of 'em. I hang on to 'em. And uh if I if I'm getting a little cold I read 'em and get mad all over again and then put 'em back. Sort of helps my blood pressure stay up where it ought to be. But uh the Lord don't send anonymous letters. He says, I want you to know who's writing this letter, who's sending this message. I'm the one that holds the seven stars. I'm the one that walks in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. Now don't miss this. Let's read on a little bit. Notice the next one, verse 8, Revelation 2. 8 And unto the angel of the church in Smyrna, right, these things saith the first and the last, which was dead and is alive. Heard that before too, hadn't we? He told us that already. That's what he that's what John heard him say. That's what John knows already about him. Go on and let's read another one. Let's go down Verse number eighteen. Unto the church, or excuse me, unto the angel of the church and Thyatia Rod. These things saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, and his feet are like fine brass. Do you get what's going on here? John is is is writing what the Lord is saying, but as he speaks to these churches, he's revealing particular aspects of his character to those individual churches. It's not a revelation of the whole, it's a revelation of what's needed for those assemblies. He's saying to this assembly here, he said, I want you to know this is who I am. Look in chapter 3, verse 1, Sardis. And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write, These things saith he, that hath the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. I know thy works. Again, here he is. He's that one who holds the seven stars in his right hand. He's expanding on what John's already seen. And then chapter 3, verse 7, notice this, and did the angel of the church in Philadelphia write these things, Saith he that is holy. He that is true, he that hath the key of David, he that openeth and no man shutteth, and he that shutteth and no man openeth. You notice that? Now you say, preacher, those are a little different. I think you can find them back there in Revelation 1 But they're just expanded upon or expounded upon and made a little bit more clear to this church. And he's saying to the Philadelphian church, I'm the one who has all of these opportunities in my control. And then in Laodicea, notice this, chapter 3, verse 14. And unto the angel of the church of the Laodiceans, right. These things saith the Amen. The faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God. Now you say, preacher, why did we look at all of those? All of these manifestations were tailored to the people, to their plight, and to their problem. If I can just say it real plain, it was just what they needed. It was just what they needed. But it all came from the same source. It was a manifestation not of many gods but of the God. It was the making known of Jesus Christ, who is the Son of God, but in all of his different aspects. Now that's important. I want you to see that expansion here. All of these churches, and we'll look at this just a little bit deeper, but as you think about the church at Ephesus, that infant church. Although they were greatly attacked and opposed, the Lord reminded them that He's the one who comforts and controls. That church at Smyrna, he wanted them to know that he's the conquering one. The church in Pergamos, he wanted them to know that he's the sword. And I think I didn't read that one. He in in chapter 2 verse 12, somehow I missed that one. But it says unto the angel of the church in Pergamous, write, These things saith he, which hath a sharp sword with two edges. You know what Pergamus' problem was? It had bad doctrine. And he said the answer for bad doctrine is in my word. And he said, I want you to know that I'm the word of God. And you get back to my word, you'll take care of that bad doctrine problem. The church at Thyatira, he wanted to know he was a consuming fire. That church at Sardis, he wanted to know he was the all-knowing one. The church at Philadelphia that had a great door set before them, he wanted them to know that I'm the one that opens doors, shuts doors. I'm the one who controls every opportunity. And the church at Laodicea, you know, you think about the Laodicean church being in its smug, proud state, yet he said, I'm the one who's consistent. I'm the amen. I'm the faithful witness. He he wanted them to know that what they needed was to come back to him. All of these churches had problems. Somebody said, Why did they have problems? Because they had people. Show me a church that's got people and show y'all show you a church that's got problems. You know why? Because people got problems. But aren't you glad Jesus got the answer? He is the answer. I'm not trying to oversimplify, but yes, in sort of the way I am, because he is the answer. My grandmother used to walk through the mountains and she'd say, If you'll take the bark off that tree and boil it in water and drink the tea, it'll take your headache away. And we'd walk a little further and she'd say, if you take that that uh plant right there and you grind it up and make us sad, that'll make a bruise go away And she would say, now listen, if if you get uh sore throat, dig up the roots of that tree right there and make a tea and drink it, and it'll take care of your sore throat. And I'm I'm telling you, honest, she had a remedy for every situation right there on the side of that mountain. She she did sh she thought doctors were kind of a waste of time. She'd hoped they'd catch up to her knowledge, you know. That was her notion But but I'll tell you what, I uh God has a whole lot better pharmacy sometimes. He had the first one. He had the first one. But it was it's amazing that that there were all these solutions right there in plain view. I thought of that when I read this and thought here the solutions right here in plain view. The solution is in the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the answer. Can I say to you tonight, if you're lost, He's the Savior? If you're backslidden, he's the pardon. If you're cold, he's the one who will light the fire. If you're distant, he's the one that'll draw you near. If you're struggling, he's the one that will make you strong. He gives power to the faint. Those that have no might, he increases strength. You you say, preacher, my heart's heavy, well he's the burden bearer. Casting all you care upon him for he careth for you. He's the solution. He's the answer. Church, we don't need a new doctrine. We don't need a new personality. We don't need a new program. We just need a new look at the person of Jesus Christ. He is the answer. This hopeless, I'll tell you something, it grieves me to see so many young people with no smile on their face, no purpose in their heart, no reason to live. I was talking to a dear brother recently up north and he said, he said the number one killer of young people between the ages of nine And I think it was 26 or 7 is suicide. He said we we have funerals every week now. Every week. And he said, You know what breaks my heart? There's hope. You know where that hope's found? It's not found in a better economy. It's not found in a better climate. It's not found in a better culture. It's found in the person of Jesus Christ. The Bible says He is our hope. The Lord Jesus is our hope. I remember when Miss Elizabeth got saved, she called me about two o'clock in the morning and she said, I just want you to know I got saved. She said, now I have purpose. She didn't have a Bible education, a knowledge of the Bible. She attended a dead church, didn't preach the Bible. But thank God Jesus brought purpose. Jesus brings hope. Listen, my friend, if you're if you're a bit spiritually dead, he's the resurrection and the life. I'm just trying to say that he's the answer to all of our problems. It's not oversimplifying the matter. It's just getting straight to the point. that Jesus Christ is the answer to every one of these churches. He said, I want you to know I'm what you need. Just look at me as who I am. I'm glad he's such a manifold God and such a mighty Savior that all my needs are met in him. Thank God for Jesus. Now you say preacher, what's the application of that? Well, I've already preached a little of it. Let me say it again. Number one, Jesus is the answer. No matter the people, whether you're in Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamus, Thy Tyre, SARS, Philadelphia, Laodicea , Elkin, Maryland. uh Antarctic, where wherever you may be, the Arctic Circle, uh North Pole Alaska, uh whether you may Africa, wherever you might be, India. Uh uh Taiwan, where listen, it don't matter where you are, who you are, what you face, Jesus Christ is the answer. He's the answer. That's why we get excited about sending missionaries because we know they're taking the answer. They've got they've got the news that men need to hear They're telling the message that needs to be told. Listen, dear friend, Jesus is the answer. And don't let this complicated, confused, corrupt culture make you feel embarrassed because the answer is so simple. You know two plus two is still four. And it may take you a whole page of figuring to get to it. I like the old way. How many is that? Four. Oh I know. Some of you teachers are about to swallow your tongue. We we got smacked. I got smacked. If you ju well I was trained rougher, but we got smacked with a ruler if we got caught teeth you know, counting with our fingers when we were little I can still see that teacher's face and hear the sting and the hear the whiz of that ruler coming my way because she'd see me going And then wh you smack your hands on it. Put it on the table. I just get under there and go, mm-hmm, mm-hmm mm. If you couldn't get them then, hallelujah. Maybe she's listening. No, that's that's ornery. Help me Lord. But he still is the answer. Why do we complicate what's so simple? Paul told the Corinthians, he said , you've been moved from the simplicity. There's a simplicity that's in Christ. You know what I appreciate about old Brother Roloff? He helped a lot of people, that people really complicated the remedy. And made their malady worse. And he just right simply got to the point. And when he addressed the issue with the person of Jesus Christ, it's a miracle what God did. I'm telling you, I've met a lot of preachers across the country that were saved, sent down there by a judge and others. But you know something? God helped them there and what they they they didn't need uh a reformation or a re-education. They needed regeneration. And when they met the Lord Jesus, he fixed that problem. I told you about my brother. I'd love to ha have him come sometime, but uh I I do believe he'd scare you. He scares me every once in a while. But uh God saved him out of a mess. And he was burnt his mind out on drugs. Really burnt his mind out on drugs. But he said he believed God wanted him to preach, and he said, God, if you want me to preach, you're going to have to give me my mind back. And he started, he learned to read, and then he started reading the Bible. And then he started preaching a little bit, and it's amazing. He still struggles to communicate unless he's preaching. It's hard to have a conversation with him. He still has has some damage nerve-wise. He can't sit in a pew. He'd tear a pew all to pieces. So he either brings or he finds a rocking chair and he sits in that rocking chair. And boy, he rocks that thing wide open. Because he's got to move. And that's that's the after-effects of what he's what he took and what he did to his body. And when you talk to him, it's like talking to a squirrel. I mean he'll He'll talk about this and then next thing you know, he's back around over here, and you're like, hold on, we're just talking about this. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I forgot that. And then you go back around, and it's hard to have a conversation with, but when he gets up to preach the word. God gives him clarity of mind, clarity of thought, clarity of speech. You say, what's that? That's Jesus being the answer. Folks listen, there's not a malady in this old world, there's no filth this this corrupt uh culture has come up with that Jesus Christ can't bring a solution to He's still able to save, mighty to save, powerful to save. He can change and transform lives. Thank God for Jesus Christ. There's something in Jesus that's always the answer. I want you to remember that. There's something in Jesus that's always the answer. Number two, though, I want you to see the place of his activity. I want you to notice in chapter 1, verse 10, it was the Lord's day. It was not Monday or Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, or Saturday. It was the Lord's Day. You say, why is that important? Well, it's in the Bible. That's why it's important. And what's the Lord's day? The Lord's day is the day Jesus got out of the grave. That's the Lord's day. Folks, I I think we need a resurrection or rather a revival of a return to respecting the Lord's day. I'm talking about saved folk. I don't I don't expect the heathen to do any better. I s I do believe God's people can. That the Lord's Day, that's a special day. That's the day that we recognize the resurrection. That's the day that we worship our risen Savior. That's the day that we honor Him like all of the saints did from resurrection on. Listen, dear friend, it is the Lord's day. Let me say it's not the Lord's hour. It's the Lord's day. The whole day. You know, it was a shock to us when we went up north how that culture still had reverence for the Lord's day for a time. There wasn't a store open on Sunday. I mean on s you could there's you just you either get gas or if you run out of gas you couldn't get it. There's no gas stations open, no restaurants open. Nobody did business on the Lord's Day. It was just, no, we don't do that. And then little by little they started opening for emergency purposes. We got to open a gas station. And for emergency purposes, we've got to open a grocery store or two. And the next thing you know, it's wide open, and the Lord's day is just another day. I don't believe you can legislate the Lord's day, though I'm not against it. But I don't believe you can legislate something that the Lord has to do on the inside. I think we've often done that with standards and such. We try to legislate what only the Lord can write on a man's heart. And so we we see here that that it was the Lord's day. And then seven times, did you notice it? Seven times he said church. The church. The church. The church. The church. The church at Epsis. The church at Smyrna. The church at Pergamos. The church at Thy Tyre. The church at Sardis. The church at Philadelphia. Lay Odyssey. The church. The church. The church. You say, preacher, what are you driving at? Here's what I'm driving at. That the place of his activity. Was centralized. The place of his activity. What was the Lord doing? The Lord was working in his church. Now you know, and I don't have to belabor this, but the reality is, is that church is that assembly of believers Not not the not the brick and mortar, not the structures. We we have no clue what sort of outfits they met in or places they gathered in. But here's what we do know, they were recognizable and distinguishable as the assembly of God's people in those locations And he said, that's where I'm working, that's the crowd I'm working in, that's the people I'm speaking to. There's where my I'm making myself known. Remember the I can't remember his first name. That Ross boy. When I first started pastoring His wife and children came to our church and I went to see him. He built log cabins and I said, I remember his name now. I said, I I'd I'd like for you to come to church. Oh, he said, preacher, I go to church in the mountains. And I thought, you know, just being maybe simple and gullible somewhat, I said, Oh, there's a church somewhere up there you go worship in. And he said, no, no, no, no, you you miss me. He said, I sometimes I'll I'll go to church on the lake, and sometimes I'll go to church in the deer stand, and then I got the picture. I said, so what you're saying is you don't go to church. No, no, no. He said, I go to church. He said, I feel closer to God on the lake than I do sitting in the pew in that church you preach at. I said, well, sir, that may be true as far as your feelings are, but the facts are that when the saints assemble, the Savior's present. When God's people gathered together, the Bible says John didn't see him on the lake. John didn't see him on the mountain. John didn't see him out yonder at the at the amusement park. John saw him in the church. In the midst of the golden candlesticks. That's the place of his activity. And can I report to you tonight that's still where he's working? That's still where he's moving? That's still where he's speaking My friend, I'm going to tell you something. You and I need to be in the assembly of God's people because we need to be with the God who assembles when his people gather together. We need to hear his voice. We need to have his workings in our hearts. We need to yield ourselves to his work and his conviction and his drawing and his ministry in our lives. Everything else is a poor substitute for being in and among the people of God. Joe and I got a chance to run up and see Joe and uh uh see George a minute this evening. And you know the first thing he said, I miss going to church. Didn't he? He said, I miss it. He he said I got a little thing he listens to. It's not a radio, but he has a little um MP3 player that reads Bible. And he said it's not the same. So I know it's the Bible, but it's just not the same. It's not the same. Did we not learn during the craziness of COVID that sitting on your couch with a screen in front of your face is not the same as sitting on your pew? with the people of God. It's just not the same. Now I thank God for the technology. If your body's too broken to be in the house of God, thank the Lord we got access. Thank the Lord we've got technology. Thank the Lord that we can utilize these things to feed ourselves, but we can never let them be substitutes for the real thing. You and I need to assemble as the saints of God, for the Savior said, there's where I am. I'm in the midst of the golden candlesticks. I'm there speaking to my people. I'm there working among them. I'm showing them I'm what you need. Brother Dixon, thank you for that song in times like these. Oh, how that burns in my heart. I was a youth pastor in a little church, Friendship Baptist Church, Hendersonville, North Carolina. We were expecting Sarah. And Mrs. King was a lady in that church, an elderly lady. And that sweet lady would get up and sing that song. And buddy, when she got to that last part in times like these, I have a savior. It showed. I'll tell you what, she she she was one of them old time shouting mountain women, boy She would shout her hair down. She would shout and praise the Lord because she is glad she had a Savior. And I said that because when when uh they had a little baby shower for us, she gave us a rocking chair. And she said, I want you to know something. She said, I sat in this chair for how many decades? I forget. And she said, I read my Bible and pray. She said, I read my Bible and I pray for my kids. I've read my Bible and prayed for my grandkids. She said, I want you to Have it and go do the same thing. Because she said they're going to need a Savior. In times like these, she'd always use that. In times like these, they're going to need a Savior. And then she'd bless herself and go to shouting again, man. She just enjoyed the reality of Jesus. And I'm here to tell you, dear friend, the place of his activity is right in the midst of the assembly of God's people. You got that promise right here. John, John got to see what the normal eyes can't see. There are things that that are hidden from your view except you read them here. And when you open the Bible and read, you find right there he is, he's in the midst. Do you know every time the saints assemble the Savior's presence? He's walking and working among us. Thank God for that place of activity. But then the third thing I want you to see, I want you to see the consistency of his character. Did you notice nothing new was revealed from church to church? It was a reinstatement or a restating of what was already said. It was it was nothing new. See, we're so curious That we're wanting something new. Have you heard the old saying, if it's new, it's likely not true? And by the way, the Bible has nothing to say to the curious man. This Bible's not a tickler of curiosity. It's a proclaimer of truth. And so as we think about the consistent consistency of his character, what John saw on Patmos is is just what was restated over in Ephesus and Smyrna and so on to each one of those seven churches. You see, the Lord Jesus Christ, Hebrews 13, 8 says, is the same yesterday, today, and forever. He's unchanging. What I'm saying is that the Jesus of this era here in Revelation is the Jesus that I need today The churches and all of their problems and peoples and plots and all of the issues that they face They found the answer in the person of Jesus Christ. And this local assembly, right here in this era, can find the same answers in the same Savior, for the Savior never changes. Isn't that a beautiful thought? The consistency of his character. I don't think we need to go about things in such a new way. We just need to go back to what's old and true and right and realize the answer's here. The answer's here. The truth is in the Lord Jesus. And I believe, I I I pray this is the case, but I'm seeing more and more that the younger generation that's coming on are realizing that it's not something new and different they need. They just need something real. And the reality is found in Jesus Christ. Haven't you found that to be true, brother or sister? Some of you have lived a long time and you know Christ is real. You've raised your children and faced those challenges, leaning on the strong arm of the Lord. And you found out that arm won't fail. You've walked through those dark valleys of sickness, and you've found out there's a great physician who can heal and help and comfort. And you've leaned hard on him and you've found him to be faithful. You've lived with the ever-changing time. It's amazing how quickly 24 hours can turn things around Oh dear friend, I'm glad that in those times of change, that we have a changeless one. And you've looked up and said, Lord, this is certainly not what I expected, but I'm glad, Lord, you're always the same. You found him to be faithful. You know what that is? That's reality. That's the reality of the Lord Jesus Christ who does not fail. He's an ever-present help in time of trouble. He's always the answer in every problem. He is the solution to which you can turn to no matter what the equation might be. Friend, listen, he does not fail his own. He has a listening ear. He has a sympathetic heart. He has an open eye. He has a mighty arm. Friend, listen, he's got a purpose and a plan and and a will that he's working out in this old world and look you can look to him whether you six or sixty or six hundred it don't matter he does not change Thank God for the consistency of Jesus Christ. And these churches were learning this and understanding He's the answer. He's the answer. He's the answer. I want these kids around here to know he's the answer. They're going to live in a different world than we lived in. They're gonna live. I was looking at some old pictures. Man, we were weird in the seventies. Do you remember that? Why in the world we wear such weird-looking clothes in the seventies? I'm sorry But it was. Mama had I had corduroy quarter roy. Is that how you say it? You know that old rough, nasty looking stuff If you've got it on tonight, I'm sorry. I'm not trying to be ugly. But I hated those britches she made me wear. Had a brown pair, I remember. And they were bale bottom My my where my boots went out out the bottom was the biggest what I put around my waist. What in the world's that about? That was a waste of fabric in my thinking And uh those those striping shirts, I could go on. I was just shocked. I I was I was disappointed. I wish mom was alive. I'd say, what'd you dress me like that for? I look like a little weirdo But anyway, times change. What's in's out, what's out's in Right? Just just constant and and and everything's different and and and and there's their cult just really as quick as things are progressing. I heard a number the other day of how many personal assistant robots now are functioning. And it blew my mind how many there are. I was like, wow. It's going to be nothing to have some thing to clean your home or help you in a, you know, in a establishment. It's it's coming. I do believe that's coming. And their little world is going to be so different than the world that you and I live in, and some of us that have a little age on us look back and think, I'm not even living in the same place. I'm not even living on the same planet But aren't you glad? When you open this Bible, you bow your head and talk to him. You're talking to the God who hadn't changed since Abraham said, Who are you, Lord? He said, I am that I am. Listen, I'm glad that we serve a God who does not change. The consistency of his character gives stability to his people. Thank God for a Savior who does not change. These churches needed to know that Because a whole lot was changing in their day. And has continued to change. But he didn't. He doesn't. He's the same. Praise his wonderful name. And you and I can rest tonight as we study the revelation, as we look into the future of things to come. Things that are often veiled and cloud and often hard to discern. And I'll be honest with you, fearful to contemplate as to what's coming on the earth. I'm glad I can rest in the one who's the same. The one who saved me from my sin, the one who has cleansed my heart within. The one who's made me a home above is the one whom I can rest in love, fill on my head upon his mighty arm, and know that all is well. Hell may rise up and Satan may be given the ascendancy for a time, and the earth may become full of blood and trembling and judgment. And yet, thank God I'll be safe in the arms of the Lord Jesus Christ, who loved me and gave himself for me, for he does not change. Hallelujah, what a savior. Jesus is the answer. Because Jesus doesn't change. Father help us tonight.