I want you to take your Bibles, please, and go with me to Matthew chapter 17. Matthew chapter 17. And when you find that in your Bible, would you stand with me? I'm going to read the first eight verses of Matthew chapter number 17. Two little words I want to magnify in your hearing this evening, and they're found in the last verse, verse number eight. But Matthew chapter 17, look with me what it says, verse number one. And after six days, Jesus taketh Peter, James, and John his brother, and bringeth them up into an high mountain apart, was transfigured before them. And his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light. And behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking with him. Then answered Peter and said unto Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here. If thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles. One for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias. While he yet spake, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them. And behold, a voice out of the cloud, which said, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear ye him. And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their face and were sore afraid. And Jesus came and touched them. And said, Arise and be not afraid. And when they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no man save Jesus only. Would you look at those last two words? That's what I want to preach tonight. Jesus only. Jesus only. Heavenly Father, we bow our heads once more. And Father, we do so acknowledging that we so need you and working in our hearts and lives here just now. Father, I realize that what we need has got to come from Thee. And I pray tonight, O Lord, that you would give your people something very special that would help. Lord, would you do in our hearts what only you can do for us? Help us to truly see Jesus only. And Father, I'll thank you for all that you do. Thank you for the Word of God. Thank you, Lord, for the flawless record. Here in your precious book. Father, thank you for thy word, Lord. How blessed we are just to have it in our hands. We thank you for it. Help us just now. And Lord help both the preacher and the hearer, for we all are needy. And we look to you in Jesus' name. And God's people said. A man, you can be seated. I want you to think about those two little words. They might be little words, but they're life-changing truth. Jesus only. Now, I believe that this is where the Lord's taken all of us. This is where the Lord is wanting to get us all in our spiritual life. The Lord's wanting to get you and he's wanting to get me in the place where we see no man save Jesus only. The greatest challenge you'll ever face in your spiritual life is to get to the place where you see Jesus only I want you to see some things here. Again, this is a very interesting account that took place in the life of our Lord. And though we have the two men appearing here, Moses and Elijah, and they're good men, they were God's men, I believe they were representative of the Old Testament in the whole. Moses represented the law and Elijah represented the prophets. And you have the complete representation of the Old Testament. And the New Testament on the mountain. You've got the not only do you have Moses and Elijah, but you have the Lord Jesus and you have the disciples, and so you have the whole scriptures here on top of this mountain. And yet, as good as Moses and Elijah are, they became distractions from one. And Peter said, well, let's just build three tabernacles. Now, had he just said, let's build one tabernacle, everything would have been okay. But it was obvious that Peter had his eyes on other things than Jesus only. I remind you what Hebrews chapter 12 teaches us. Hebrews chapter 12 teaches us that we're to run the race that's set before us with patience. But verse number two tells you how: looking unto Jesus. The author and the finisher of our faith. You will not run your race except you see Jesus only. You will not finish your race except you see Jesus only. You will not stay in this race except you get to the place where you see Jesus only. Don't let distractions keep you from running. Now there are lots of them. I'm going to talk about some of them here this evening. But I want you to see three things that I hope will help us to get to that place and understand that's where the Lord's taking you. Everything he's doing in your life right now is to get you to Jesus only. Everything that's happening around you is so that you'll get to the place where you see Jesus only. When Peter wrote about this much later, do you realize he never mentioned Moses or Elijah? He said, we heard in that mount, that excellent voice. We saw the Lord Jesus in all of his glory. He never once mentioned Moses or Elijah. You know why? That didn't matter to him anymore. It was Jesus only. Now somehow in my spiritual life I've got to get to that place or I won't make it. And brother and sister, I want to help you tonight. And I want the Word of God to help us all to understand that until we get our focus on the Lord Jesus only, we are not going to run well. I want you to see number one the difficulty of distractions. You see it here in the text, the first four verses. Peter, James, and John are took up on the mountain. And in verse number two, the Bible says Jesus was transfigured before them. Do you ever stop and try to imagine what happened here? The Bible says his face did shine as the sun. Now let me tell you something. God doesn't exaggerate. Now people do. Amen. If you don't believe it, just talk to some of these fishermen or hunters. Race car drivers. I don't know. Somebody like that. And uh they'll tell you tales, man. But his face did shine as the sun. You imagine what those men They're standing there looking at Jesus, the bodily person, the presence of the person of Lord Jesus, and all of a sudden his face starts to shine like the sun. That means that they couldn't look at that face very long, or else it would blind them. Now, watch what else it says. Not only did his face shine as the sun, but his raiment, his garments, his clothing was white as the light. You imagine what that what that must have been like? Here the Lord Jesus, his face begins to shine like the sun , His clothing begins to glow, just white as the light, and he's transfigured. You know what happens here? Here is a display of deity The humanity of Jesus is eclipsed by the deity that resided within him You imagine what that must have been. Here these men are standing in the presence of God, and he's transfigured before them. But now I want you to notice something next. I want you to see the discourse. It says verse 3, and behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elijah talking with him. Now, Jesus is shining like the sun. His face is shining, his garments are glowing. He's transfigured, his deity is out there, if I can say it this way in the most respectful manner, his deity is on full display before these men's eyes. And upwalked to men. Now notice it says nothing about their face shining, their face is not shining. It says nothing about their garments glowing, their garments aren't glowing. It just says two men show up, two men appear, and began to talk. And Moses and Elijah, they recognize them and they're speaking. And you say, what's the big deal? I want you to see what Peter does in verse 4. Peter said, Lord, it's good for us to be here. If thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles. One for thee, one for Moses, one for Elijah. Peter was distracted by the presence of these two great men. These two great men somehow or another got elevated to the level of the Lord Jesus And Peter said we might as well build three tabernacles. Remember, only one man's face is shining. Only one man's garments are glowing. Only one, listen, these men might be renowned, but only one in that company is to be revered Here is the Lord of glory. And Peter let something like that get his eyes off the Lord exclusively. I don't know about you, but when I think about that, it reminds me of how easy it is to be distracted. If Moses and Elijah, good men, God's men, if Moses and Elijah can get the eyes of Peter off Jesus, Don't think for a minute that the things of this life and things in this world can't get your eyes off of Him, too. Let me just say it. It's easy to be distracted. It's easy to be distracted. It's easy to get your eyes off the Lord. It doesn't take a listen, let's all just be honest tonight and admit that it doesn't take Moses and Elijah to get our eyes off Christ. Sometimes it just takes a cross word. Sometimes it it may be a good thing. Listen, it could be the blessings of God. But it's awful easy to get distracted. I think today we're we're distracted by a multitude of things that in eternity and in light of eternity they will not matter. I've watched men get their eyes off of the Lord through theological disagreements. I'm not talking about Bible teaching. But I'm talking about disagreements that when you hold them up in the light of eternity, they don't make a hill of beans or a row of pens. And we get our eyes off the Lord. We get out of sorts and we get off course. Because our little pet thing gets in the way. Boy, you better be careful with that. I'm telling you, the devil don't care. He used Moses and Elijah to get Peter's eyes off Jesus. And he'll use something else to get your eyes off. It don't matter what he uses. The fact is that he can use it to get our eyes off Jesus. We can get our eyes off Jesus just being around. I mean each other. We can make each other get our eyes off of the Lord Jesus. It don't have to be something something good. It can be a distraction. It can be a discouragement. It could be a defeat. It could be something that the devil arranges. But whatever it is, just know this. It's awful easy to be distracted. That's why I daily have got to get in the word so my eyes will get back where they need to be. That's why I need to constantly be reminded of who the Lord Jesus is, because my eyes have a tendency to wander. My mind and heart have a tendency to drift, and it's very easy to sit right here in the house of God and be faithful in the service of the Lord and get my eyes off the Lord Jesus Christ. Peter's in the most holy place he's ever been in his life. You understand? Peter's on the most holy ground his feet have ever trod. He's standing in a place of great privilege. Jesus didn't take all of them. He took three of them. He took Peter, James, and John. He just took that inner circle we called them. He didn't take all the other disciples. They were down at the base of the mountain. They're dealing with the crowd. By the way, the devil is waiting on them when they got back down. But they were in a privileged place. They were in a place that was very special. It was a place where God was going to And again I say this with great respect, but trying to help us to understand where God was going to take off that that garment of humanity and reveal his deity to break through so they could just see he really is God. And he's going to allow that. That's a holy place. That's a special place. But please know this: there's no place on this earth safe from distractions. There's nowhere you can be or go, and there's no place you can get where you will not be distracted. Some of those people in olden times thought if they could just find a hermitage and could travel to some secluded place and be all alone, that somehow or another they could give their full attention to God. But the problem is, is that they took the main distraction with them. They took the main distraction with them. You know who that is? That's self. And that's true with all of us. That's the main distraction in keeping our eyes on the Lord. And so please note that there is the difficulty of distractions. It's easy, it's easy for you and I to be distracted. Number two, I want you to see a divine intervention. And thank God for these. Thank God he steps in sometimes. Thank God he says enough is enough. Look with me in verse 5. While he yet spake. You see that? Peter's still talking. Peter's always talking. But while he yet spake, Peter's still says Peter's saying, now Lord, I can imagine something like this. The Bible says that he said, you know, it is good for us to be here. Let's build three tabernacles. One for uh for Moses, one for Elijah a and one for Jesus. And then maybe he went on to tell the Lord just kind of what sort of tabernacle he ought to build. build and and and begin to tell him some of the details and and say, now Lord, you ought to put this one here and put one over here. And while he yet spake That tells me that while he was in the midst of his distractions, God was getting ready to intervene Now, sometimes you and I get distracted and we don't even know God's doing something, but he's doing something nonetheless. And while he yet spake, look what it says. Behold, there are two beholds in this verse, by the way. First he said, Behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them. Notice that display. That bright cloud. You know what that was? That's the presence of God. That bright cloud. You say, how do you know that? Because the next behold says, a voice spake out of the cloud. That means that was God. God was there and God intervened and he spoke and he gave direction and look at his direction He said, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear ye him And do you notice who's absent now? Do you notice who's out of the picture? Do you understand that Moses and Elijah are there no more? Do you recognize the fact they've been whisked away back to glory? They've been taken off of the scene. Do you know what God did? God stepped in and removed the distraction. God stepped in and said, your eyes don't need to be on Moses. Moses , let's get out of here. Your eyes don't need to be on Elijah. Elijah, let's get out of here. Your eyes need to be on the Lord Jesus, and God boomed from glory and said, Hear him, hear him. Listen to him. What he's got to say, you need to hear. Who he is, you need to know. He's the one you need to get your eyes on. And he made it very clear that Jesus was to be alone in the spotlight. God stepped in. Now let me tell you something. Oftentimes when we get distracted, God will step in. And God will remove all the distractions. God will deal with those distractions. And He'll take them out of the way. Or He'll get you to the place where the distractions are no longer important. And he'll intervene. Some of you have heard the name Leonard Ravenhill. Leonard Ravenhill was a mighty revivalist in his day. Leonard Ravenhill was greatly used of God and he was an Englishman who got a burden for America and God brought him here and he ministered here. He made his base in Texas And he served the Lord and he was just a man mighty in power. God used him in a wonderful way Early in his ministry, God blessed him and used him, and he started going a direction that was off course. His own testimony was that as he got off course, he began to be among a people who did not hold the same high view of God that he held. I'll say this. I've got an ear for any man that has a high view of God Almighty. And he said, I began to be in a number. And listen, this group eventually derailed. They became a breakaway movement. And anyway, he was getting popular among them, and he was walking that direction. He was going that way. His ministry was pitching its tent. in that direction and he was going. He said perhaps it was my pride. It was the popularity and the praise of men. He said, I I can't put my finger completely on it. But I will tell you this I was drawn away from the Lord. And he said one night while preaching in a distant city The alarm went off in the hotel he was staying in. People began to scream, fire, fire, fire. The building was on fire. He tried to leave through the hallway and couldn't. He met the fire. It was on his floor. And he said there was no way to go to make it to an exit. So he ran back into his room, out on the balcony, and jumped off. And when he landed on the floor, I forget he was two, three floors up, shattered his legs uh busted up his hips, his pelvis area, and just left him disabled for quite some time. He said he lay in a hospital room and as he lay in there completely quiet, no one's calling for meetings, no one's giving invitations. to come and speak to the multitudes. He said the Lord began to speak so sweetly to him. And the Lord began to say, now Lin. That was those that close were close to him called him Lin. He said, the Lord said, now, Lynn, you've got time to hear what I've got to say. He said, Lynn, I'm not as big in your eyes as I once was. It's time you get your eyes on Jesus only. And he said God removed the distraction out of his life through that difficulty and through that what we might call a tragedy God use that in his life to get his eyes back on the Lord Jesus. I want you to know sometimes God will intervene to get your eyes where they need to be. Sometimes God will intervene and say, I want your eyes back on me. I want you to know that I'm the biggest thing in your life I want you to know that I'm the most important thing in your life. I want you to know that all that matters is me, Jesus only. Sometimes God intervenes like that. Thank God he does. Have you ever thought where you'd be if he didn't? Have you ever stopped and considered what would be of your life if ever once in a while God didn't step in and say, now listen, I want you to see something and it's me. I need you to get your eyes off of people. I need to get your eyes off of individuals. I could tell you of multiple times in my life that the Lord has stepped in, took things away, pulled things out made the situation so that all I could see was Jesus only, because what I needed to see was Jesus only. I think of a time in my life when, quite honestly, bitterness had filled my heart And I remember being hurt and an individual took it upon themselves to really just try to destroy our ministry. And spread lies to people I preach for and tell them things such as he don't believe the King James Bible anymore, he's gone liberal, he's a modernist, and all of those things. And uh begin to really, really cause difficulty for me and my family. Speak ill of my wife. Really just just had a uh you could sense that this was just from the devil And I remember one night landing in the hospital, and I thought for sure I was having a heart attack, and my doctor was there, and And he described what was going on. He said it's not physiological. He said it's something more. Began to describe what was causing my problem. And I I immediately knew what was going on. I I knew what God was saying to me, but I didn't want to admit it Thankfully, as I got discharged, we got in the car and drove over to the church and sat in the parking lot. My wife and I began to talk about everything going on. And my wife gave me good counsel. Men, you're a fool if you don't ever listen to your wife. Amen. Sometimes your wife has something good to say. Sometimes your wife has something from God to say And you need to listen to her. And my wife very graciously said, honey, you need to forgive those people. Because when it's all said and done, it don't matter what they do, but it does matter what you do. And it don't matter what's done to you, it's what it what matters is what you do for him. And I'm going to tell you something. That prick my heart. I went home and went to my office, and I opened my Bible and began to read, and I stayed there until I could see Jesus only. And I say this to the glory of God. I hope you understand. But I went back to church and had a man just a few weeks after come up and he said to me, Preacher, your preaching is different. Now I was still a little shell-shocked, so I was tightening up my boxing gloves when he said that, because I thought he's come to argue and fight and carry on again And I said, what do you mean by that? And I guess he probably saw my face. He said, oh no, it's not not anything bad. He just said, the God you preach is a lot bigger now than he used to be. Yes, I'll tell you why he's bigger when I preach about him, because he's a whole lot bigger in my eyes than he's ever been. And I'm telling you, friend, it matters whether or not you see Jesus only. You're going to communicate something about him in your life. You're going to communicate something about him in your demeanor and in your deportment. You're going to communicate to others around you either your God's big or your God's not that big. But I'm telling you, friend, when you get to the place that you see Jesus only, the greatness of who he is eclipses all the distractions that may be rattling around you And my friend, men and women will begin to see that, hey, Jesus only is enough. I want you to notice the third thing in this text. I see not only the dis the difficulty of distractions, it's easy to get distracted. Thank God for the divine intervention when God swoops in and takes away the distraction. But I want you to notice a definite word. A definite word. Look in verse 6. And when the disciples heard it, they heard the voice of the Father, of God say , They fell on their face and were sore afraid. And Jesus came and touched them and said, Arise and be not afraid And when they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no man save Jesus only. Notice the disposition of these men. They were sore afraid. Can I put it in sort of common vernacular? They were scared to death. These men were scared to death. Isn't it strange that they weren't scared when Moses and Elijah showed up? I'm going to be honest. I don't know how I'd take it if Moses and Elijah all of a sudden just appeared on a pew. Don't think I'd kind of want to hang around. I'm just a little bit shy of that sort of thing. But they weren't scared when that happened. They weren't scared when Jesus was transfigured. It it it it says nothing of fear. When his face began to shine and his garment began to glow, they they weren't afraid. The Bible didn't say anything about him being afraid. But when God spoke That tells you who? That tells you something about the Lord. When God spoke, they heard that voice By the way, Peter writes that that letter when he heard that voice, that excellent voice. Do you understand the Tense in which he writes that statement, that he heard that voice, the tense of it is this, that he heard and he's still hearing it. That what he heard has impacted him and he never got over it He said, what I heard up there, I just can't shake. What happened to me there, I just can't get away from. It's still echoing in my mind and in my heart, even to this very day. And he heard the voice, and when they heard the voice of God, they were sore afraid. I fear We've humanized deity, and we've deified humanity. In the Christianity of this day. We've took God and we brought him down to man, and we've took man and we've lifted him up and made him like God. But I remind you that the voice of God still makes men's hearts tremble. They were sore afraid. Not only do I see the disposition, but I love this. Here comes divine comfort. Two ways. It comes through Jesus. By the way, my comfort always is in Jesus. I don't fight, listen, that voice of Mount Sinai that thunders and roars the judgment of God, the wholeness of God, that don't bring me comfort. But that still small voice of the Lord Jesus that says, Be not afraid, it is I. Now that brings me comfort. Here's a divine comfort. Look what he did. Jesus touched them. And said. Notice it two things. He touched them and he spoke. He touched them. Now they had a literal touch, a physical touch, but I believe God gives spiritual touch as well. God 's able to touch the heart of his people when they're scared to death. And here he comes along and he touches them and he touches them in such a way they know who it is. They they're not they're not wondering who touched me. You remember that old spiritual um No, not he touched me. Somebody touched me. It was on a Monday, somebody touched me. You know that one? Well, there's a lot of of vagueness in that that I don't know is hardly worth the breath it takes to sing it. Because it it w it's not a somebody. You don't look around. Who who touched me? Huh? My son's aggravating sort of thing. And every once in a while he'll touch me, you know, trying to sneak up on me or something like that. You'll see him do it here on the pulpit. One of these days I'm gonna lay him out cold right here in the choir. 'Cause I'm not expecting that. It makes me jump. He loves that. He loves that. One day he's gonna get old and have bad nerves and I hope I'm just crazy enough to be able to still be around to touch him and you know just aggravate the fire out of him. I'm hoping the Lord will let that happen. I hope he has to take care of me too. But anyway, you know who touched me? Yeah, who was it? All these fellas come out of the choir sometimes, somebody'll shake your hand or put their hand on say, who who touched me? These men knew who it was. There's no vagueness when the Lord touches you. There's clarity. You know that's Him. Your soul says, That's my Lord. And these men said, Jesus touched us. And not only did Jesus touch them, but Jesus spoke to them. And Jesus said to them, notice this. Jesus said, Arise , be not afraid. Don't be afraid. Get up. It's okay. He brought comfort to them Then you'll notice they reached that destination. Look what it says. It says, when they had lifted, verse 8, when they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no man save Jesus only. They didn't see Moses. They didn't see Elijah. Listen to me. Peter didn't see James or John. Didn't matter anymore. James didn't see John and Peter. These men didn't care about the surroundings. They didn't care about what was going on around them. It was not important anymore who was on the mount because Jesus was there. You understand? Jesus only They had reached the destination. The work of the Lord and his word had accomplished their goal, and now these men could leave the mountain confident that their eyes were on Jesus only. Now listen, friend, you better learn to get somewhere with God and stay till he touches you and speaks to you. You need in your life times where you just get alone with the Lord and hear his voice and know that the Lord touched you. Know that the Lord stopped by your way. If not, the distractions will begin to pile up. It might be petty things, and it might be Just pitily things. It might be things that are not not of any value whatsoever, but they begin to mount up and they begin to pile up And the next thing you know, you you're out of fellowship and you're you're upset about this and you're grieved about that and you're mad about this and you got your eyes everywhere but on the Lord When you find yourself like that, get your Bible, get yourself somewhere alone, and get in the presence of the Lord until he touches you, until he speaks to you, and be able to leave that place saying It's just Jesus only. Listen, all the problems will still be there, all the distractions will still be there, all the difficulties will still be there. But I'll tell you what will happen. Your eyes will be fixed on the place where they need to stay. They'll be fixed on the Lord Jesus. And things look different when you see Jesus only. I believe the reason Peter walked on water is because he had his eyes on the Lord. I not only believe that, I believe it because the Bible says it. So long as he had his eyes on the Lord, those waves didn't matter. That storm didn't matter. It didn't matter that he was doing the impossible just so long as he kept his eyes on the Lord. And my friend, as long as you keep your eyes on the Lord, you'll make it. As long as you keep your eyes on the Lord, you won't be sidelined. As long as you keep your eyes on the Lord, you won't get discouraged or defeated. Oh, you might have battles and there'll be distractions pulling at your coattail. But you'll not be knocked out of the race because you've got your eyes. Peter ran well until he started looking at waves. And some of God's people run well until they start looking at other Christians. And they start seeing the poor performance of others. They start seeing perhaps the imperfection of man. As a very influential man in the ministry in our lives. My wife and I. We first got married. That man was just such an encouragement, a testimony, and an example. And he got discouraged and left the ministry. He didn't get into sin, he didn't do something gross and immoral, but he just got discouraged and left. And I'm thinking, if he can't make it, am I? And that shook me up I looked up to him. I believed. Listen, he he he encouraged my heart in in ways I can't tell you tonight. And I thought, and and when I we I remember the service we got to church. They said, brother, so he's gone What do you mean he's gone? He left. Left the church. Didn't just leave the church, left the ministry. He left the ministry. He left the ministry. And I'll tell you, my friend, but you know what the Lord did with that? The Lord reminded me, it's just Jesus only. It's not Jesus and a preacher. It's not Jesus and a church member. It's not Jesus in my family. It's not Jesus in this church. It's not Jesus and my works. It's not Jesus and my responsibility. It's just Jesus only. And when I see Jesus only, friend, I can run my race. Let me ask you tonight, do you see Jesus only? Maybe you're finding it hard. I I don't know how I got in my head that as I got older it'd get easier. But I did. Or I used to think. I used to think if I if I can just reach some plateau in my spiritual life That surely, surely, this thing won't be as hard as it's been when I started. But I'm learning something. I'm learning that the longer I serve and the longer I'm in this journey. That the battle sometimes gets a little harder. The difficulties seem just a bit bigger than they used to be. The opposition seems a lot stronger than I remember it being. The reality is that there's no place on this side of eternity where the distractions, where we're free from distractions, where we're free from things that will get our eyes off the Lord. And aren't you have you not been surprised at times by the things that get your eyes off him? Have you not just maybe give yourself a good stern talking to and said, what in the world's wrong with you? Have you ever not found yourself in a place and you realize what got your eyes off the Lord and you're thinking that? I wonder if Peter thought back when after you know he locked that high priest's ear off. Here he is in in that in that garden area, that waiting area where they were going to question the Lord Jesus and the little maid says he's one of them And just her accusation, her identification of him put him in a place where he denied the Lord. And I wonder after the resurrection, he didn't think. Now here I was, bold enough to cut a man's ear off, and yet that little maid derailed me. Don't don't discount the little foxes. Because they do a work too. Have you ever found yourself in a place and said, I'm I'm older than the way I'm acting. Some of you better raise your hand. Have you ever found your place say, I should have got over something like this years ago. Huh? That just says we're easily distracted. That reminds us how badly we need the help of the Lord keep our eyes where they ought to be. It's easy to be distracted, but also remember there's divine intervention. Thank God in heaven for a father who cares enough to say, get your eyes back here. And steps in my life in ways I may not always like. I was on a brother this week. My dad took me to a place in my life when I was in rebellion against the Lord. And he had a talk with me, and I'd rather, I would have rather him pull out that belt and set me on fire than to sit and talk to me like he did. And I'd only seen my dad cry privately there as he read his Bible and prayed early in the morning. In our little house you could see everything from where you were. And by bed I could see directly the the table and dad would sit down and open his Bible and I'd watched him sit there and pray and tears come down his face and fall down on that Bible and on the table. And I'd never seen him do what he did that day, and he sat down and he began to pour his heart out to me. And I thought, God in heaven, what am I doing? How did I get my eyes over here? What's happening to me? See, that was God's intervention. God used him in my life. God put it put that on his heart. And and and and he and he said those words and and it broke my heart and it bothered me for days. But the reality is God was using it to bring me where I needed to be. I'm just saying, thank God we have a Father who won't leave us in a state of distraction, but will intervene and say, My child, open your eyes. My child, look my way. Remember I'm still God. And thank God for that definite word. I'm glad He's given me a Bible. That I can open its pages, and if I'll be tender to his spirit, I'll walk away from it, seeing Jesus only. Seeing Jesus only. Now, friend, do you see him only? You might be like Peter, Lord, let's build a tabernacle here and here and here and here. Or you might be discouraged and defeated tonight and saying Man, I'll tell you, I just don't think I can go on. This one disappointed me. This one let me down. This one's discouraged me. Maybe you just need to get along with the Lord and say, Lord, help me. I just need to get my eyes back on you I promise you this, somewhere in your life in the future, you'll need to see Jesus only. Somewhere in your spiritual walk, you'll be at a juncture where you'll need to see Jesus only, or you won't get through it. You'll need to see Jesus only, or you'll derail on the Lord. And so let Peter's example here teach us something tonight that will help us spiritually to see Jesus only. Would you stand with me? As we have our hymn of invitation, can I ask you tonight, be very sensitive to the Lord?