They said, man, this is the best thing ever. Just send nineteen ninety nine and uh we'll throw in a second one for free. That ought to be the tip off. You're not getting a very good product, but then you get it and you think, my, I just I I did not get what I what I my it does the the product doesn't match the investment You ever feel like that? Well it's amazing to me that the Lord does not feel that way toward us. Because I sure seem it sure seems like what he paid was a lot more precious than what he received. And yet, you know, from the Lord's standpoint, we are more precious even than his own blood We're more precious to him than his own life. And my w listen, we're that's why we're going to praise him forever, and we still won't praise him enough. What a great Savior we have. And I am thankful to be saved this morning and thankful to be able to stand here and open the Word of God before you I don't take it lightly. I know it's a very uh solemn thing to stand and and proclaim God's Word, and so I appreciate your prayers. We're going to be turning to Mark chapter 2. Want to honor the Lord this morning And I do appreciate your pastor. I appreciate his influence upon my life. And um uh I I listen, there's never been a time that I've spent with with your pastor that I didn't come away feeling like I need to get closer to the Lord. And I appreciate that. I appreciate that kind of influence. Uh and uh appreciate his preaching, his friendship And appreciate his family. And I talked to him this morning, I said, uh, well, how is it with the empty nest? And uh we were discussing that to talking about how God's got grace for every stage of life, amen. And um I need grace until I can get to that emptiness, amen. That's gonna be a long time. I I thought the little ones were gonna be in here this morning. We still have little ones. I mean you saw the older ones up here this morning. We got young ones. Our youngest is six years old. And so I got a grandbaby that's a year old and a daughter that's six years old and th they're just growing up, you know, best friends. Um and uh so I don't know. I must have missed the dispensation part of my life, but uh it is good it's good to be a grandparent. Boy, what a blessing that is. And uh But God's good and and I appreciate uh appreciate God's family. Amen. Mark chapter two, if you found your place, I'll invite you to stand. with me as we read the text. If you're able, we'll read the the first uh eleven or verse twelve uh twelve verses here, first twelve verses uh of the of the passage Mark chapter 2, and I'll read aloud, you follow along in your King James Bible, verse number 1. The Bible says, and again he entered into Capernaum after some days. And it was noise that he was in the house. And straightway many were gathered together, insomuch that there was no room to receive them, no, not so much as about the door, and he preached the word unto them. And they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which was born of four. When they could not come nigh unto him for the press, They uncovered the roof where he was, and when they had broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay. When Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy, Son , Thy sins be forgiven thee. But there were certain of the scribes sitting there and reasoning in their hearts. And that's where all the scribes and Pharisees are real good at reasoning. They're not as good at faith, but they're good at reasoning. In verse 7, uh he said, Why doth the or they said in their hearts, why doth this man thus speak blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God only? They had a point. They just didn't know the point they were making. Amen. And immediately, when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? Whether is it easier to say for the sake of the palsy, thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise and take up thy bed and walk? But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins, he saith to the sick of the palsy, I say unto thee, arise and take up thy bed and go thy way into thine house. And immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went forth before them all, insomuch that they were all amazed. And glorified God, saying, We never saw it on this fashion. Want to preach this morning on this thought, Jesus in the house. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the day you've given us. Thank you, God, for your grace, your love, your mercy. Thank you for forgiveness of sins. Thank you, Lord, for the sure and solid promise of eternal life and a home in heaven through Jesus Christ, the one who loved us and gave himself for us. And God, we are thankful to have that assurance, but maybe there's someone here this morning that does not have that assurance. God, I pray by the Holy Ghost of God that you would speak to their hearts. That you would take the Word of God as it is preached, and Lord, we believe that you have manifested your Son in these last days through the preaching of the Word of God. And Lord, I pray that you would take this time and the preached word of God to draw them by your Spirit to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Father, I pray that you would stir the saints as well. Lord, your word uh it it sows seeds in each of our hearts, Lord, and brings forth fruit that is required. And Lord, maybe there's someone here that uh and I'm sure there's many here today that are saved already, but we have needs in our hearts and we have uh issues in our lives and there's things that you want to do in us and Father I pray that we not stand in the way this morning I pray, dear God, that we would humble ourselves before you this morning, that we would understand that you have the help that we need, and uh that you're going to meet those needs. through the Word of God. And Father, I pray that Jesus Christ would indeed receive all the praise and all the glory and all the honor. For our time together here today. And Lord, we'll we'll thank you for it. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Thank you for standing. You may be seated. I'm excited to preach about Jesus this morning. There's no greater topic in the Bible or in the history of the world. than Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the one who loved us, gave himself for us, the one who left heaven and came to this sin cursed world, so that he might take our sins upon himself. And die in our place to pay for every sin so that we could have eternal life, and that we could have a restored relationship with our Creator And uh I love the Lord Jesus this morning. And in this passage here, we see Jesus in the house. And there's several things I want to point out this morning. Three things in particular, and we're going to go over those quickly, and then I'm going to go back to point number two and preach that for a while. Okay? In this passage here I love how the uh the the passage begins. Uh the word again, and again he entered into Capernaum. Jesus had just been to Capernaum in the chapter before. He'd been visiting with Simon Peter. Peter had invited the Lord to his house, and the Lord had healed his mother-in-law and uh and uh done a great work there and then they started bringing all the sick and all the diseased to the Lord Jesus and uh all the ones that were brought to him he healed But obviously there were some that had needs that didn't make it to the Lord. Maybe they were reluctant, maybe they just let the time pass by. And uh or maybe they uh their hearts were filled with unbelief. We don't know. But we do know that he again passed by Capernaum And aren't you thankful for the agains in your life? Aren't you thankful that I know for me I grew up in a in in in uh in in good Bible preaching churches. My dad's a preacher, heard the gospel all my life. But I'm thankful that the Lord time and again spoke to my heart and dealt with my life and uh drew me to the Savior. Now, I I didn't get saved the first time I heard the gospel. I probably didn't get saved the first thousand times I heard the gospel. But I'm so thankful that the Lord again passed by my way. August 10th, 1995, I was seventeen years old, and I passed from death unto life. Amen. I was translated from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of his dear son. And I'm thankful for that. I'm glad for the agains in my life. And you know, even since I've been saved, uh there have been agains in my life. God 's dealt with me about different things and maybe some sin, some besetting sin or some weight in my life, and I've tried to hold on to that thing. And the Lord in His grace and in His mercy has come back and dealt with my heart again and tried to restore that fellowship like we heard about in Sunday school this morning. I'm thankful for the loving kindness of the Lord and the long suffering of our Savior. Amen. And so Jesus here he again enters into Capernaum. And it was noise, the Bible says it was noise that he was in the house. That is, uh there was much uh said about it And you know, if there's one thing that I'd like uh for us to be able to say at the conclusion of these week of meetings I'd like for us to say that it was known and it was noised that Jesus was in the house this week, that the Spirit of God had liberty in this place to deal with hearts. I'd like to say, be able to say at the end of this week that some sinners got saved and that some saints got revived and got strengthened and got helped. And the only way we're going to be able to say that is if the Lord's presence is here. It's gonna be him that makes the difference. Uh it's not us. We don't I'm not bringing revival to this church. That's beyond my capabilities I'm looking for revival just like you are. Amen? And we're looking to the Lord. He can what he can do, none of us can match. If we had a million years to accomplish it, we'd never accomplish it. What he can do in one moment of time. And so Jesus is in the house and and uh and and the word gets out. And let me encourage you to be inviting people to these meetings this week. To bring them in from the fields of sin, let them hear the gospel, let them hear the truth, and and to bring yourself to this place willing and ready To hear from the Lord. And it's noised. He was in the house. And so verse 2 says that many were gathered together. Insomuch that there's no room to receive them. Not so much as about the door, and he preached the word unto them. The first thing I want us to think about when we think about Jesus in the house is the opportunities that are here when Jesus is here. Now there is multitudes here in this place, and they came, and many of them came for many different reasons. We read about in John chapter 6 that many came to see the miracles. And others came because uh they knew that a lot of times Jesus would prepare a meal, do a miracle and give them food all at the same time. I mean that's What's what's going to draw uh people to a uh uh a gathering more than that? And so there were there are many people came for many different reasons, but some came because they needed help You know, you look at this story, there's a lot of people here, uh, there's a uh a multitude of people in this place, and yet what's striking to me is that only one, as far as we know, only one in this service in this gathering gets the help that he needs. Can I say this not only when we gather together do we need the Spirit of God there, but we need to be willing and ready to receive what God has to say. The work that he wants to do. There's opportunities when Jesus is in the house. You know, I've heard people say, we know I worship the Lord. You know, anywhere I am, I can worship the Lord in the tree stand or on the on the fishing boat, or I can worship the Lord watching football. I don't I don't know about all that. But there's something special that takes place when God's people gather together for the sole purpose. Listen, we are not distracted by anything else. We come out from the world and we gather in a place and we're sitting in this place and we're wanting to hear what God has to say. There's opportunities there that you're not going to find anywhere else. I'm a firm believer that the Lord does things in the church house and the gathering of God's people that He'll not do for you any other place. So there's opportunities. He's here, but then there's obstacles. We'll look at those a little more in depth in just a moment, but we see that there's that there's obstacles in this in this uh story, this one man who's sick of the palsy, who needs help, there are things that he's going to have to get through and get over, get around, to get to the Lord But then there's objective. The objectives are mentioned here in the in the passage. You know, when Jesus first saw their faith in verse number five He said to the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. And notice there's a period at the end of verse 5. And this very well may have been the end of the story. Had there not been some questions, you say, What do you mean? Well, I will say this: the greatest objective, the greatest need that this man had was not the healing of his body. That was not the that was not the main uh need that he had. Now maybe that was the need that brought him to this place Maybe the Lord used that to bring him to this place. And certainly in our lives we can look back and see where God has used outward circumstance to bring us to a place where he could do a greater work in us. But his greatest need was that his sins be forgiven. Listen, if you're here this morning, maybe you're here and you're thinking, well, I need God because my bank account's low. or because my health is bad, or because my relationships are falling apart in my family or at work. You may think those are the things that you need And maybe those are needs in your life, but if you're here this morning and you're not saved, your greatest need is to have your sins forgiven. What good is it if you get money and if you restore a relationship and if you and if you have a better uh better job and a nicer house? What good are those things if you die and you go to hell? What shall a man give in exchange in exchange for his soul? There's nothing more more valuable that you have than your soul. And so Jesus deals with his most pressing and most important need, first of all. He says, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. I remember the day he said to me, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. And you say, well, what kind of sins do you have? You grew up in a Christian home. My sins were many. I certainly wouldn't want to list them to you this morning, and I couldn't if I wanted to. My sins were great. And there were many and I'm thankful for the day that the burden and the the weight of that sin was lifted off of me When I came to Christ, when I accepted Christ, received Christ as my own personal Lord and Savior, the Spirit of God said to me, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. Thank God for that. This is the main objective that Jesus has for this man As a matter of fact, it appears, as we read the rest of the passage, it appears that the healing was not even done for the man's benefit. Look at it again, if you will, although he did benefit from it. Amen. It was not done for him. He gives this man the forgiveness of sins. And then in verse 6, there were certain of the scribes sitting there reasoning in their hearts: why does this man thus speak blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God only? You know what they're thinking? They are thinking that Jesus cannot forgive those sins. That's what they're thinking. They think that what Jesus has said to this young man is blasphemy. And it's blasphemy because he does not have the power to forgive this man his sin. Now listen, you sin against me. I can forgive you on a human plane, on an earthly plane, but all sin is against God. And you need God's forgiveness. And so and so they they say, listen, this guy, who's this guy? He can't be forgiven sins. Only God can forgive sins. And they should have known because Jesus answers their thoughts, not their words He didn't answer their words. They didn't speak anything. They were reasoning these things in their hearts. And Jesus answers their thoughts Yeah. Amen? He said, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? And then he gives them a question. He presents to them this question. He says, Is it easier for me to say to the sick of the palsy, thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise and take up thy bed and walk? Now here's the question. Here's the question for us this this morning. If there was somebody in here and they were unable to walk Would it be easier for me on a human level? Would it be easier for me to say, your sins are forgiven? Or would it be easier for me to heal it? Well, that's not a trick question. It'd be a lot easier to say, all your sins are forgiven. Listen, you know what's happening in Catholic churches all over this world today? People are going in this little box, and there's a man. In another box on the other side, and this little screen between them, and the people in here are saying, I've done this, and I've thought this and I've done this All these bad things. And the guy on the other side says, okay, say five Hail Marys and whatever else, light a candle. Come on. And you're going to be absolved or forgiven of your sins. I'm not buying that. He does not have the power to forgive those poor, deceived souls of their sins. It's easy to say. But here uh that Jesus gives he he presents this to them, and of course, they all go quiet Because that's what cowards do. Amen. They go quiet when they're when they're uh confronted with something They go quiet. And then notice what he says in verse number 10. He says, but that ye, you know, ye is a plural word in your Bible. That's why don't let some smart sounding scoffer talk you out of your King James Bible. Well, it's too hard to understand. Actually, it's a lot easier to understand the King James Bible than many of these other books that they call Bibles. Here's a key right here. Ye, you, your , in the King James Bible, that's a plural word. The, thy, thine, that's a singular word. So when you go to the scripture and you're reading the Word of God, there's a lot more definition granted in the King James Bible than your NIV, because they take all the thighs and the thine and the thou's out. Because they're too hard to understand. Muffin. Get a dictionary. Amen. Don't get me riled up on that. He says that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on the earth to forgive sins. He saith to the sick of the palsy, I say unto thee, arise, take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house. You know, I was thinking about this. He healed, he forgave that man of his sins for his benefit. Is that right? But he healed this man of his condition for everyone else's benefit. He healed him to show them that he had power to forgive sins. Listen, when you're saved by the grace of God, it's more than just about going to heaven when you die. God listen, God changes your life. He gives you a new nature so that others may see and know that this Jesus Who forgave our sins. He has the power to forgive sins. The changed life is proof that Jesus can forgive sins. The Bible has nothing to say about a life that is saved and not changed. Amen. You say, Well listen in my experience, away with your experience. Away with my experience. Let's hold the Word of God as the authority. And the Bible says, therefore, if any man, any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. All things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. That little word behold, what an important word that is in that passage, because behold means to see. When you get saved by the grace of God, there's going to be a change that takes place that others can see. James 2 says, you can say you have faith. Just like he said, it's easy to say your sins are forgiven. But how do we know that's accurate and that's true? Because of your works. It's not your works that save you, but it's the works that prove to those around you that you are saved. Amen. That's the Bible. The objectives here that the Lord has for this man, he wants to forgive his sins. He wants to change his life And my, did he ever change his life? This man he was carried here, remember? Remember, he was carried to this place on this bed. Well, when the Lord gets done with him, he's carrying the bed. Hey, think about the things that used to dominate your life and the things that used to carry you through life, the sins and the filth and all of those things. And now all of a sudden those things that had the power in your life, now God's given you the power over it through the touch of the Lord, through the blood of Christ. The Bible says that he went forth before them all, carrying that bed. They all saw him go in on the bed, and now they're seeing him carry that bed on his way home. That 's the changed life. Amen. And so these are the objectives. But I want us to look at for just a few more minutes. I want us to look at the obstacles here. The things that were between this man and the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me say this. If we're going to get to Jesus, and we all need to get to Jesus. We're going to have to understand there are going to be obstacles. There's going to be opposition between us and the Lord. In this very week that's been set aside with special meetings, there are going to be things in your life, there are going to be circumstances, situations come up in your life this week to try to keep you away from this place. I'm telling you. Let's look at a few of them here. In verse number four, it says, And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press. Now the press here, uh i is everybody sick of the press? I'd like to preach against CNN and Fox News and ABC right here, but that's not what it's talking about. I will tell you this, they'll keep you from Jesus. Hey, let me get let me give you a little a little practical advice this week. You want to get the most out of this meeting? Turn off the news. Amen, preacher. Good preaching. It'll help you, I promise you. I was uh uh a few weeks ago, we're in Cleveland, Ohio, and and I was preaching, and I mentioned that thing about just turn it turn the news off Just unplug for a few days. It's a three-day meeting. There it was. Here it's a six-day meeting. Amen? I said, just unplug for three days. And at the end of the meeting, tell me how it went. And this this precious lady there in the church, she came up to me afterwards, she said, okay, preacher. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna watch the news for three days. I'm gonna trust you on this. I said okay. Okay. I said you'll you'll get a blessing, I promise you. And she's you know she's concerned about the election as we all should be We oughta pray. Amen. If we did as much praying as we did clicking and scrolling However, you get your news, if we did as much praying as we did that, we'd be in a lot better shape, I think. At least ourselves, spiritually. So at the end of three days she came back and the last night of the meeting uh well she came to every meeting and the last night of the meeting she said well I did it I did it, preacher. I said, you did. I said, how do you feel? She said, I feel great. I said, I told you. I told you. Just unplug. Listen, it's going to happen whether you watch it or not. Amen. So well we've got to be aware of what's going on. There's enough people consumed with this stuff. I don't have to watch or read anything. It finds me. Amen. That was not my point, but that 'll help you, I promise you. It will. If you just determine You know what? I'm just gonna turn it off. I'm gonna turn it off. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna seek it out this week. I'm gonna seek God instead this week. I' I'm gonna put the newspaper down if you still get those and get the Bible out Amen. But when it's talking about the press here, it's talking about the press of people There's a great deal of people that were around the Lord. We mentioned the reasons why, and I won't go over those again, but I will say this, there were people The Bible says that in this house there were people inside the house, and there were people outside of the house. There were just people all over the place. And they tried to get this man to the Lord, and guess what? They weren't letting them through. I don't know for me And and I hope you're this way too. If you're coming into a place of business or something, you see somebody with a maybe maybe they've got a walker, maybe they've got a wheelchair, maybe they've got a cane. Or maybe it's something that's slowing them down and hindering them. You know what I do? I just I grab the door, I open it for them, I let them in. Right? That's what we should do. They don't do this. All these people around the Lord Jesus, here's this guy on a he's on a stretcher on a bed of some sort, and they're trying to get to Jesus, and they won't let them through. I got to thinking about that. Listen, you know there are people in life that will try to keep you from the Lord? That they will intentionally try to keep you from the Lord. Can I say something to you this morning? Don't let them. It may prove difficult But don't let them get between you and the Lord. Then there's people in our lives. They're not trying to get between us and the Lord. They just are. We've let them Maybe in our hearts, maybe in our hearts the Lord is not number one in our heart. Maybe it's family. Listen, can I remind us? I believe in the importance of family. But Jesus said, the Lord said, Thou shalt have no other gods before me? I got that little grandbaby, that little girl, Brooklyn Page. Yesterday, my wife and I got to go over there. We got to watch her for the day, because they had a wedding that Ben and Sarah were at, and it was just me and m and nanny, just granddad and nanny and Brookie. It was a great day. It was a great day. Amen. I love that little girl, but you know what? I can't let her come between me and the Lord There are people that will get between you and the Lord. There were people outside of the house, and there were people inside of the house. No, I've seen, I've seen. We're we're all aware that there are that that that the devil will try to use the influence of the world to keep us from God. You know what I've also seen? I've seen people in the house. In the church. Get between someone and the Lord. I've seen people, the Lord's dealing with their hearts, and they know they should come and get right with God, or they should come and get saved, but they're looking at that person standing beside them And they're allowing whatever whatever they think in their mind, they're allowing that person to come between them and God. Don't let it happen. I'm glad these folks didn't let it happen. Man, they they had to go around him, around them, hit they ended up going up on the roof. And then notice while they're there, there's not only people that have come between you and the Lord, but there are there are possessions. There's stuff that could get in the way. They get up on the roof, and uh then there's some things in between them and the Lord. I've seen people get houses between them and God. Their possessions. The things that they own. The things of this world. The things that are going to burn up one day. Are so important to us, too important in our lives that we can't have a clear and an open way between our hearts and God. Again, there's nothing in this world that's worth not being right with God. Nothing When they get up there, the Bible says they uncovered the roof. I like the wording of Scripture. I always like the wording of Scripture. But it speaks to me very specifically here. There were things they had to uncover. Listen, there may be things in your life that are keeping you from the Lord, and maybe there are things that are covered, maybe there are things that no one else knows about But they're there. And they're keeping you from a right relationship with God. They're keeping you from the help that you need. Maybe this week, maybe the Lord will just say, Hey, let's uncover that. I don't want to cover those. I don't want to uncover those things. Well, if you're going to get the help you need, you're going to have to uncover them. You're going to have to get honest with God. Can I say this week? Let's just be honest with God. Let's get honest with ourselves. Let's get honest with one another. One of the things that that that really when when you stop and think about it, it astounds me the level of How can I put this? The level that we have of ourselves, the esteem that we have of ourselves, that we think everybody thinks that we're right with God. We fool ourselves into thinking everybody thinks there's no problems in my life. There's nothing I need to improve on. That's why we struggle when the preacher preaches and he gives the invitation. We struggle to come down here many times because We're worried about what other people think. Well, if they see me down at the altar, they're gonna know that I've got issues in my life. Hey, guess what? We already know that Why? What do you know? I know that you are a fallen son of Adam with an old nature. And though you may be saved by the grace of God, you've been given a new nature, but that old nature is still there. There's still a struggle, there's still a battle, there's still issues. There's still problems, there 's still needs, there still needs to be growth in our lives. Each and every one of us have that Okay, we've been saved 60 years. Brother Hitchens told us this morning. God's still working on us. And this Bible, you can know the Bible for sixty years and you still learn. You know why you're still learning? Because you still need to learn. Let's not kid ourselves to think that we've got it all figured out and and even though we know we don't have it all figured out, we think everybody else thinks that we have it all figured out And so, therefore, we're not going to humble ourselves. Listen, humble yourself. Get the help that you need. Get to the Lord. Don't allow things uh d to get in the way. They uncovered the roof, but notice they uncovered it, but they still didn't have room to get to the Lord. I won't go into all the background here in the culture, but they would go up on the roof in the evenings to catch that breeze. As a matter of fact, that was a common thing. Uh they they said in and uh the Lord had laws in Deuteronomy about having a battlement around the top of your house? Like a railing so that people wouldn't fall off. It was common for them to be up there and they'd have an access into the house. But this access was obviously not big enough for this this young man to get him down in there. on that bed. And so they've uncovered things, but they still they're still not right. Then it says they had broken it up. Now keep in mind, we don't know whose house this is. It's probably not this young man's house, or he'd have been in it. Right? It's probably not these four who is who are bearing him, or they'd have been they'd have had access into their own house. We don't know whose house it was. Do you know if they understood this situation is desperate This young man needs the Lord. And I'm going to do whatever it takes to get him to the Lord. Listen, they started breaking stuff. It wasn't enough that it was uncovered. Then they had to break it. You know what Daniel told Nebuchadnezzar when he was warning him about God, uh God judging him for his pride? He said this. Break off thy sins by righteousness. Make a break. Maybe there's something God's been dealing with you about for a long time and you've just been kind of Putting it off and putting it off and kind of just uh nurturing that thing and saying, Well, one of these days, make it today. Today, break it off. They were desperate. So they they they um they they broke up some things. Don't let things in your life keep you from the Lord. Don't let your past keep you from the Lord. Amen. Don't let stuff, don't let issues keep you from God. Do what you gotta get do to get to the Lord. And then not only were there s there are people and and and things, but notice in in the end of that verse there it says When they had broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay. They got the way clear. They got past the people. They got the way clear. But then you know what they had to do? They're up here. And the Lord's down here. So what they have to do is they have to lower him. Did you get that? They had to lower him. Humble yourselves in the sight of God. And he will lift you up. He knows how to lift up the fallen. He knows how to obase the proud. He can bring you down. All over and over in the history of the kings, those who lifted up themselves, his heart was lifted up. You read about that several times You know what happens right after that? They go down. Because that's what pride always does. It pumps you up right before destruction. It happened to Lucifer in heaven. Don't think it's not going to happen to you and I. If we're lifting up ourselves. You know what he had to do? He had to humble himself. He had to be let down. He had to be lowered. That's what the Bible says. They lowered him. He was let down. And here this morning, the Lord has a work that he wants to do in your life. Will you admit that you have a need? Will you be willing to say, Lord, I'm going to humble myself before you this morning? Now maybe, listen, this man, when he came to the Lord, he knew that he had a physical problem, but maybe he didn't even know about a spiritual problem. Maybe not. He learned about it after the Lord preached the word unto them But maybe you come and you say, I d I don't even know of anything right now. Preacher, I'm being honest and I I'm searching my heart and I don't see anything that needs to be changed. Maybe that's the case But you know what the psalmist said, he said, Search me, O God. It's not enough for us to search ourselves. And we need to search ourselves. You know, I found just like these little kids, you tell them go clean your room. And they clean it to their standard. Right? And their standard is usually far below mom 's standard. Mom's gonna find things they didn't see. Is that right? Why don't you come to the Lord this morning and say, Lord, you search me? Search me, O God, know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. See if there be. Any wicked way in me. What a great way it would be to start this meeting just to say, Lord, here I am. Maybe you know of some needs. Maybe there's some things you haven't even seen. But Lord, here I am. Will you show me what I need? Will you do in my heart, in my life, in my family, in our church this week the work that needs to be done? Because you alone see the needs clearly, and you alone can meet those needs. Let's stand together. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word this morning. God, I pray