Bible please begin to Hebrews chapter number 13. And when you find verse number eight, I will invite you to stand with me, for I'd like to read the verse again. And if you know your Bible and are familiar with verses in the Scripture, pray extra hard this morning that the familiarity of the verse will not rob you of a fresh blessing. I believe there's something in the text here this morning that'll help us. We're praying that God will speak to our hearts. Hebrews chapter 13 and verse number 8. Notice again what the Bible says. Look at the words. Jesus Christ, the same yesterday and today, and forever. Father, we pray that you will take your precious word and do thy all or thy powerful work. In each one of our hearts. Would you open our eyes afresh and speak to us anew and help us to see the reality, Lord, of what we've just read? We're thankful, Lord, that the Bible is true and without error. We're thankful, Lord, this morning as we gather here that this is your word. And we can rest upon it, believe it, trust it, drop the anchor of our faith upon it, and know, Lord, that what you've said is so. When our emotions tell us something else, when our thinking, our reasoning, when all of those things that would cloud our minds and hearts Would say otherwise, I'm glad the Bible is like a rock that doesn't move. And Lord, your precious word has made it clear, and so help us now. Lord, undertake for the great need for these few moments, Lord, help me to lift up the Lord Jesus, hide me behind the cross, and be glorified in this gathering. And Lord, help our hearts to be open to hear your voice. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, and God's people said , Amen. You can be seated In Hebrews chapter 13 and verse number 8, the Bible makes a declaration that I believe every Christian needs to get a hold of afresh this morning. That Jesus Christ is the same. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. We're living in a lot of change right now. I believe in the last few weeks we've witnessed change on a level we probably haven't in a while. We've witnessed a change among our culture. We're witnessing a change. And I'm here to tell you, I really believe it's just the tip of the iceberg. Because Paul said to Timothy, evil men will wax worse and worse. And as we look over the landscape of what's going on around us, we begin to realize, hey, there's a lot of things changing. It doesn't take you long to realize if you live very long that things will change. People, like Josiah just said this morning, people will change. I've had people all my life, you know, I've been pastor now for thirty years. I'm not a novice. But I have watched people over the years who were my buddy today who were a dread enemy the next. I mean people say, preacher, I love you, I'm praying for you, and then hate your guts. Wouldn't spit on you if you were on fire. That's just the ma that's the nature of man. That's just the way life is. I've come to accept the reality. But I'm glad in my life I've got somebody who will never change. The Lord Jesus Christ doesn't change. And for your spiritual sanity, you better wrap the rope of your faith around something that doesn't waver. Something that will not change. Look, this church could change. I pray it don't. I pray it stays true, but I'll tell you, it is not immune from the in-workings of the devil. And I know that. I know in time to come this church that's been a bastion of truth could stand and it could be a compromise place. Church could change. And before you get too high and mighty, you go look in the mirror and realize were it not for the mercy of God, you too could change. And change not in a good way. But the reality is that there is one in our life, there is one in whom we trust, there is one on whom we depend, and I'll tell you something, church, he will not change. Amid all of the changes of life, we must remember who changes who doesn't change. Now watch this. In Hebrews 13, for a long time as I read this verse, I thought, why is it here? Why did he put it here? Why did he stick it right here at the end of the book? It almost seems to be out of place even in the chapter. It's one of those standalone statements. And when you read it, you say, what is all of that about? Well, when you study the book of Hebrews, you realize that Hebrews is talking about a lot of change. Our Lord is teaching through the Apostle Paul, the Hebrew believers, that there is that there's been a change. We're no longer under the old covenant. We're no longer living in bondage, if you will, to ceremonies and to rituals and to sacrifices and to all of those things The priesthood is is has changed. The law, though it hasn't changed, its purpose is it has changed The temple has changed. The sacrifice has changed. Everything is changing. And yet there seems to emerge one in the book of Hebrews who doesn't change. When the when the priesthood passes away, there's a great high priest who's passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. When it seems that there's been a passing away of sacrifices. The Bible says there's one sacrifice for sin. And that one sacrifice is Jesus Christ. He forever made that final sacrifice. He's now seated at the right hand of the Father. That one sacrifice. All of the change. The temple. The temple's no longer the central part of the people's lives. They're scattered, man. They're run out of Jerusalem. Many of them are no longer living there. And yet that temple that was so precious to them will be destroyed and torn down and exist no more. And so now what do we have? We don't have a temple, we we don't have a priesthood, we don't have a sacrifice. Oh, but we have Jesus. We have Jesus and thank God for the Lord Jesus Christ amid all of the changes these people were facing. Now you and I read that and we say, well, that's no big deal. No big deal that they're all of that stuff passed away. Well, if you were a Hebrew living in that day, that'd be a big deal. That that would be that would be the equivalent of the most important routines of your life. being eliminated. That would be something that you are accustomed to doing. And and just imagine if this place was no more. If that was completely taken away and and and that was not that was not a a an opportunity or a privilege that you had any longer, just just imagine the impact that that might have upon your life. and the upheaval and multiply that by a thousand times and you're just starting to understand what it was like for the Jewish people to have the priesthood removed, the temple removed, the sacrifice removed, all of that's gone Everything you trusted in is gone. Everything that you lean so hard on is gone. It's no longer necessary. It's no longer required. It was so important for a while. And now it's been taken away. You can't go back to it. You can't go back it uh perhaps because of circumstances there There was no way to revisit any of these things. All of that's been uh uh abolished, it's been put away. So now you're standing on new ground It's sort of like when things change, big changes come in your life. You remember the first time you left home and left home for good? You remember that? And maybe for some it's not that big of a deal, but for others, it was a monumental shift. That home is not your home anymore. That home is not where you live. That home is not the same. It may still be standard or it may not be standard. But nevertheless, it's just not there. And so uh it it it brings such an uncertainty and it brings such a uh uh a feeling of thinking, man, uh things are changing, and and you know what I found we don't like to change. We don't like change. And I'll say this: most of the change we're undergoing right now is not good. Where we're headed as a culture is not good. Where we're going as a people, the spirit and the attitude that's flooding our land, it's not good. We're not going in the right direction. And I don't think it's going to get any better, but here's what I'm saying: there's a whole lot of changes that will sweep across your life But I'm glad in the middle of all of that there is our Savior. And Jesus Christ, the Bible emphatically declares the same yesterday, today, and forever. You say, but preacher, I just don't feel like he's the same. I don't see that being a part of the equation. He doesn't say Jesus Christ is the same if you feel like it. But, preacher, I just don't think that's so. Well, I do not read in that text that Jesus Christ is the same so long as you think it's so The Bible just makes it very plain that Jesus Christ, the same yesterday and today, and forever. I want to preach on some things that are the same. Just some things that are the same. I was talking to someone recently, we were talking about a generation of people that come through the days of going from uh you know, going from riding horse and buggy to flying in the air. And can you imagine being that. Can you imagine being in that generation a and and knowing what it was like to I mean if you went somewhere you had to harness up a horse and hook up the buggy and away you'd go at a full speed of maybe five miles an hour? And then to get in the vehicle and drive down the road and and in those early days 35, 40 miles an hour? And then to be able to get on a plane and fly in the air and go uh you know over a hundred miles an hour Boy, that that had to be big changes, big changes that come into their life. I think of my grandfather, my mother's father, and And uh I remember as as a boy growing up where I did, I remember the first time that we got indoor plumbing. 14 years old, and they put indoor plumbing, and my grandfather thought that was the most horrible thing that ever happened. He thought it was terrible that you'd put a bathroom inside of the house where you lived. He thought that was terrible. It was change. And I'm talking about changes that are a whole lot bigger than those things. Those those those uh I'd call them advances, you know. Uh it it's a it's a whole lot better uh to have indoor plumbing than it is outdoor plumbing. I will testify personally. It is thousand times better. But I'll tell you this, there are there are changes. There's changes in our culture America is quickly becoming an unfriendly place to be a Christian. We're quickly becoming a people. That seemingly have lost our way and left our moorings, and simply because of that, we're going to see some real serious changes. But I'm glad in the midst of all the things that are going on. By the way, if you've gotten anything, and I have gotten anything out of Revelation as we've studied it on Sunday night. I've come to the realization that there's change there are changes coming that are bigger than we've ever experienced. There are changes that are going to come politically, there are changes that are going to come economically. There are changes that are going to come socially and spiritually. There are changes that are going to come even as far as our climate. There are changes that are coming. I'm telling you that you and I can't even register. We have nothing to compare it to. But aren't you glad? In the midst of uncertainty In the midst of of all this trembling underneath our feet, so to speak, underneath the fact that man at nothing is the same, aren't you glad there's still one who is the same? And Jesus Christ is the same. Let me say quickly, number one, his mission is still the same. Would you go with me to Luke, the Gospel of Luke, chapter number 19? It's a verse I hope you're familiar with, but if not, turn there and look at it with me, please. And Luke chapter nineteen and verse number ten The Bible says that for the Son of Man, that's Jesus, is come to seek and to save that which was lost. Aren't you glad that his mission is still the same? You know what he's doing? You say, what's Jesus doing today? He's looking for lost people. He's looking for people who have never been saved. He's looking for individuals, men, women, boys, girls, teenagers, young adults. all ages, all groups of people. He's looking for individuals whom he can save by his marvelous grace. He came. What did he come for? The Bible teaches us in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. And that he was buried and rose again the third day according to the scriptures. You see, the Lord Jesus came on a mission. His mission was not to set just a good example, though he did. His mission was not to work many miracles, though he did that too. His mission was not to impress multitudes. and draw followers, although all of those things were done, what was he here for? He was here to be the Lamb of God for the sin of the whole world. He was here to pay the sin debt for every man. He was here to pay the debt so you and I could be free. He was here to purchase salvation full and free. That's what he came for. And his mission has not changed. He's still looking for the lost ones. I love that parable he taught in Luke chapter 15. Let me read it to you. He spake this parable unto them, saying, What man of you having a hundred sheep, if he lose one of them? Doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness and go after that which is lost until he find it. I'm glad what he goes after he gets. Sometimes my wife will say, Go, would you go get that out of the refrigerator? And and how many of you men can testify? You go in there and you open the refrigerator and you look and you can't see it for nothing I don't know. I I think stuff in my refrigerator hides when I open the door. And then she goes in there and she and it's right there. Right where I told you it was, you know. Well, I'm glad when our Lord goes looking for something, He finds it. When He goes looking for that lost sheep, when He goes looking for that little lamb, Look what it says. He goes after that which is lost until he find it. And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost. And I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety-nine just persons which need no repentance. You know what his mission is? He's looking for lost people. That may be you. That may be you here this morning. He's been looking for you. You see, the the circumstances of your life have funneled you to the place where you're sitting here or you're listening to a broadcast and you're hearing that Jesus loves you He died for you. He shed his blood to save you. He'll forgive your sin. He'll make you a child of his. And you know what all of that's about? He's been looking for you. He's been after you. He's been looking for you. We have folks that go into the nursing home on a weekly basis. And do you know what God's doing in there? He's looking for lost people. And he's finding them. He's finding them. That means he's saving them. Isn't it something that a person can live their whole life and they might be 80 or 90 years old and come to the place they hear the gospel and get born again? You know what that is? That's God's good mercy. That's God's mercy saying, hey, I'm going to put you somewhere where you can hear how to be saved and you can get saved before you step into eternity. That's mercy. You know what he's doing? He's looking for the lost. He's looking for lost men and women. That's his mission. And by the way, his mission ought to be our co-mission We're co-laborers, the Bible says, together with God. That means what he's after, we ought to be after. Marinatha Baptist Church, we've got to remember that God left us here to be salt and white till Jesus comes. And if we ever quit being about the Father's business, we have no business being in business. And the Father's business is seeking and saving that which was lost. And that mission hadn't changed. Now you know, I I don't know that the day will come, but it could come that they may come where we'll not drive here in conventional cars like we do. We might you how many of you remember the Jetsons? That was before my time, but I remember I've seen reruns. And you remember them things they'd get in that would um what do you say, float or hover? And he'd brrrrrrrr you know and go wherever he was going and get out and that little thing and sit down. Well that may be how we come to church in the future. So some of these younger ones, I mean, can you imagine? Can can can you imagine I mean coming in here and floating your little thing and and setting it down and You know, maybe flying your drone and and sitting in your little drone chair and you fly in here and they set you down and I don't know. Could happen. But the truth of the matter is, our mission will be the same. Our mission will be the same. I hope and pray this day never comes. But you know something, the United States of America could very well be under the control of someone else or some other nation. And we no longer have freedom like we have. I pray it don't happen. But I'm saying we you know we're just one in a long line of nations that have lived and died. But you know what our mission will still be about? Our mission will still be about seeing people saved. Our mission will remain the same, the mission of the Lord Jesus until he comes. And by the way, as we've already studied in the Revelation, even in the tribulation, the mission of the Lord Jesus will be looking for those lost ones. Those lost ones who've never heard, those lost ones who've never had that opportunity to be saved, he's still going to be going after them. And at the end of the tribulation, the lost ones of the house of Israel are going to be his object. You see, he's always been about the lost ones. He's always been looking and seeking to save that which was lost. Adam and Eve sinned in the garden and brought sin upon humanity. And the Bible says it was God who came walking in the garden in the cool of the day, saying, Adam, where art thou? You know what? He's been looking for lost men from the beginning of time. And he's still looking for lost men today. That's the mission of the Lord Jesus. Church, it's still the same. Let me give you another thing that is the same. Go back to Matthew's gospel, please, chapter number four. And in Matthew's Gospel, chapter number 4 and verse number 17, we see not only is his mission the same, but his message is the same. His message is the same. In Matthew chapter 4 and verse 17, look what the Bible says From that time Jesus began to preach and to say, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Do you hear his message? Repent. His message is the same. Jesus said, Repent. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. And then you'll find that John the Baptist preached the message. Repent. You'll find that Paul preached the message. Repent. You'll find that Peter preached the message, and Peter said, Repent. And in Acts chapter number 17, verse number 30, the Bible makes it very clear that God commandeth all men everywhere. To repent. Listen to this verse. The very next verse, I find it interesting what he says here in Acts chapter 17, verses 30 and 31. And the times of this ignorance God winked at. But now commandeth all men everywhere to repent, because he hath appointed a day. In the which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he hath ordained. Who's that man? That man's Jesus. Whereof he hath given assurance unto all men in that he hath raised him from the dead. See, he says you need to repent because there's coming a day where you'll face that man. Repentance is the supernatural work of God, whereby a responsive sinner being convicted by the Holy Spirit of his rebellion Turns to God from his sinful ways and trusts Jesus Christ for salvation. That's about a clear statement of repentance as I know of. David Cloud made that statement. It's that turning. Don't tell me today that repentance is no longer needed. You must repent. Dear friend, listening to me, you're not saved just because you give mental acknowledgement to a body of truth. It's not simply because you wink and nod in a direction of something that you somewhat so sorta believe. It's a matter of turning. You ever seen anybody saved from maybe drowning? Rescued from uh maybe the ocean or something? I remember preaching in Port Bickerton up in Nova Scotia, a little fishing village, and one of the old gentlemen in there, one of the, he was uh one of the deacons at the time. He was not the youthful deacon. He was the elder deacon. He was about 89 years old. And he was still fishing, lobster fishing. And he had been out and he was kind of toddling around on the back of that boat, and as those traps were coming off, he one hit him on the side, knocked him over, and threw him out in the water. And he's out there just bouncing around in the Atlantic Ocean. And they got to looking for him and realized he was gone. And they decided we better turn the boat around and go look for him. And as they tracked back on the on the uh the traps, as they made their way back, uh here he was, thankfully he had his suit on that inflated when he went in the water. And he's just bobbing along there, you know. Not a care. They said when they picked him up he didn't have a care in the world. They said, Well, did did you did you uh were you afraid? Did you think he said, Look, I wasn't afraid. He said, I knew you'd come back at some point or another. And if you didn't come back, I'm saved and I'm going to heaven, so I really wasn't worried, he said And I believed that. I believe he really wasn't worried. I know the man. But when they went to get him and picked him out of the water, imagine this Imagine th that they they threw threw a buoy and and pulled him close to the boat and then two of those big young fellows had to get him by the arms and lift his whole body up. Imagine him fighting them. Leave me alone I want to stay in the water. Imagine him uh when they threw the buoy out and and and you know had the rope on it and they start trying to pull him a little closer. He he gets in that suit and he pulls out a knife and he cuts a rope. Imagine him resisting, imagine him struggling, imagine him opposing. And my friend, that's what the lack of repentance is. Repentance says, I can still do it my way. No, you can't. Repentance is coming as a helpless sinner knowing That your sin is condemned, and there's nothing you can do but cry for mercy and knowing that God, as you turn to Him, will save you out of your sin. Oh yes, he'll take you like you are. You don't have to straighten up, clean up, but I'll tell you what, he will not leave you like he found you. He will make a new creature out of you. He won't leave you in your sin. He won't leave you in love with your sin. We were studying this in the Academy this week and we were talking about the reality of Jesus living in us. And one of the ways we know we're saved is because we hate what we once loved. God has put in put in us something that says, that that that bothers me. I can't live like that anymore. You look, you take a and I've said this before, but it's the best illustration I know. You take a pig and wash it and curl its hair if it had hair. I guess some pigs do have hair and put bows on it and paint its little toenails and and you can parade that thing. You could bring it to church. Hey, we used to visit in the home. They had what, three, four pigs that lived in the house. And you say, well, but you know what? Then those things you didn't know and they s they smelt no worse than a dog or a cat. And you'd be sitting there and a little old pig come around the couch and just, you know, snorting and rooting at your feet. I could find a better pet. If you've got a pet pig, Lord bless you. Enjoy it. I enjoyed mine this morning with my eggs, bacon, amen. Anyway. Understand this. You will not change that pig's nature. It is what it is. And until you come to God in your helplessness, you'll not change your nature, but He can. He can get he said, I'll put a new heart in you. Oh, aren't you glad there's a God in heaven who can make new creatures out of old sinners? And I'll tell you, he does that when we get saved. But we must repent. The message has not changed. God commands, and I don't believe the Bible exaggerates in one iota. If he says all men everywhere need to repent, then I'm going to repeat it, all men everywhere need to repent. Oh, thank God for the message of repentance that brings salvation by grace through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now let me say quickly, his mission hasn't changed, his message hasn't changed, and I'm glad for this, his mercy has not changed. Would you look in Hebrews again, Hebrews chapter 2? And in the book of Hebrews, in chapter number 2, listen to what the Bible says down in verse number 17. Hebrews chapter two, verse seventeen, he says, Wherefore in all things it behooved him, that's Jesus. To be made like unto his brethren that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. I want you to notice what he is. He's a merciful high priest. You see, he lived down here among us. He knows what it's like to be man. Although he was perfect man and perfect God, he did, as the Bible says, suffered in all points like as we are, tempted in all points like as we are, yet without sin. It enabled him as he is, and the Bible tells us that his mercies are new every morning, to be a merciful high priest. Mercy means to withhold judgment where it's deserved. Mercy is is God not giving you what you earned. Oh my hell How thankful every person under the sound of my voice, including this preacher, ought to be, that God don't give us what we deserve. I read the story of the little boy who loved to fish. He was outside playing one day, and he, for whatever reason, was throwing these little rocks up at the windowpane of the church. And he he was playing and bouncing those rocks off that windowpane. He didn't know the pastor was on the inside of the building watching him. And one of those rocks he threw just a little bit too hard, and the glass shattered, and his eyes got big, and he took off running. The pastor knew that little boy. He was a part of his congregation. So he thought, I want to teach that little boy a lesson. But he said, I'm going to teach him a lesson in a different sort of way. So he went down to the store and he bought a brand new fishing pole and he went to that little boy's house and he knocked on the door. And when he knocked on the door, the little boy's heart sank. He knew that judgment was getting ready to fall. And he realized that perhaps somebody saw him and he looked out, saw it was the preacher and said, Oh, they must have told. He didn't know that he was watching. He he he he but he knew in his heart His sins had found him out. And as the mother opened the door, she s she called the pastor's name and And uh invited him in. He said, No, I'll I'll stay out here on the porch. He said, Would you send little so-and-so out? And she said, I will. Is there a problem? He said, No, no, not really And as the little fellow came out, he thought, now judgment is going to fall. Man, I'm in so much trouble. And he trembled and stepped out on the porch and he said to the pastor said to his mother, can I Speak to the boy alone, she said sure, and she stepped back in the house and shut the door. The pastor looked that little boy in the eye and said, Son, I saw what you did. I know you broke that window. Man, that little boy's heart was just trembling on the inside. He said, I also know that you like to fish. He said, I went down here today and I bought this new fishing pole, and I'm going to give it to you. He said, I want you to know something. What I just did is called mercy. And not only is it mercy, but I put grace on top. Because not only did I not give you what you deserved, I gave you more than you deserved. Gave you something better. And he said, son, I'm going to fix that window. But he said, I hope you'll never forget what grace and mercy is all about. I'm going to promise you something. That little boy never forgot what grace and mercy is all about. I've got news for you today, beloved. The Lord Jesus Christ is full of mercy. If he were to mark iniquity, who would stand? My friend, listen, our very existence is an existence on the mercies of God. In John chapter 8, they brought a woman to Jesus. And according to the law of that day, because of her deeds of adultery, she was to be stoned. And they brought her to Jesus hoping he would do it, or at least uh contradict the law and the Lord Jesus. You know the account in John 8. The Bible says that he got down on his knees and he wrote something in the sand. And he he got up again, and the Bible tells us that he made this statement. He said, He that is without sin, let him cast the first stone. Now, under the reality, Jesus was standing there without sin. He could have threw the stone. He had every right to throw the stone. She had broken the law. It was the law of God. It was the law of the land. And he very well could have initiated the stone. But he didn't do it. And one by one, those men scattered out. And Jesus turns to her and says, Woman. Where are those thine accusers? Is there anyone here to accuse you? Condemn you? No man, Lord. Listen to his words. Neither do I condemn thee. Go and sin no more. Church, there is a God in heaven whose mercies are unchanging. The mercy of the Lord Jesus Christ does not change, and I'm grateful that with each rising of the sun, the Bible says it's brand new. You can't exhaust the mercies of God. Don't tell me there's someone he can't save. His mercy's too big. Don't tell me there's no one, there's someone that cannot be reached with the gospel message. God's mercy is bigger than all of that. Don't you believe the lie of the devil that there's no mercy for you? I've got good news for you this morning. If you're a living, breathing human being. who sees their need of Christ, who understands the weight of sin, and who will cry out to Him, There's mercy waiting in bucket loads to come your direction. There's mercy anew. Thank God for mercy. Let me leave you one more. His mercies are the same. His message is the same. I'm so grateful this morning that his mission is the same. But let me use one more word and I'll have to explain it. His manner is the same. His manner is the same. Would you flip over to Acts chapter one? Acts chapter 1 and verse number 9 says this. And when he had spoken these things. That's talking about Jesus again, while they beheld he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven, as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel Which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus Which is taken up from you into heaven shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. See, he's going to come just like he left. Same way. Same way. Old uh uh pastor at Tabernacle Baptist Church in Greenville, South Carolina, Harold Seitler, thank you. Dr. Harold Seidler used to close his broadcast, same gospel, same station, same time. Every day. I guess now they're coming up on some 63 years of broadcasting and same, and his grandson still does, Benny Carper. He did he says the same thing, same gospel Same station, same time. And you know, the reality is there'll come a day when that bright spot hour is the name of the broadcast will no longer be on air. But you know the Bible says that when Jesus left, the angels stood around and said to these fellows, and they're standing there, can you imagine what it was like? I mean, you're standing there and all of a sudden he's gone, and you're like He's up there. And their mouths are open, and the angel says, What do you stand here gazing for? This same Jesus Shall come again in like manner. How did he go? He went suddenly. How will he come? He'll come suddenly. He left out of here, my friend, on a cloud, and there's coming a day when he'll come back in the clouds. This not not another. He's not going to send an angel. He's not going to send a representative. This same angel. Jesus. He's coming. Are you ready? Dear friend, understand something this morning. There's a whole lot of things that are going to change. But I'm glad there's one who never changes. And because of that, you can trust him. Because of that, you better get close to him. Because of that, you better love him. And because of that, you better get your eyes on him. And because of that, this morning you can drop the anchor of your faith and say, you know what? I'm on solid ground. The hymn writer said, On cross the solid rock I stand, all of the ground, sink and sand. Little Sarah sing in church when she's a little girl. And she'd get up and sing her little heart out, and she'd always mess up words when she's little. I mean we're talking she's four years old. She's singing. Uh she had the opportunity, I think, was she seven or eight when she had to be our full time piano player. Because that was all we had. So you do what you can with what you got, you know. But I remember her standing and singing that, and she'd always say, On Christ the solid rock I stand. All of the ground is stinking sand, stinking sand, she'd say. And she said it with such emphasis that you knew it wasn't stinking, it was stinking. Stinking sand. Well whether it's sinking or stinking, it's still sand. But I'm glad underneath me today Is the Lord Jesus Christ. And look, if your faith is in him, let the mountains fall and the stars cease to shine. There's one who will uphold you and carry you through. There's one that will never change. There's one that will never leave you nor forsake you. There's one who will abide forever. His name is Jesus Christ. Trust him implicitly. Love him with all your heart. Live for him with every fiber of your being. He will never fail. There will never be a time when he's unfaithful. There 'll never be a time when there'll not be new mercy. There will never be a time where you'll say, Well, Lord, I counted on you and you let me down. That'll never happen. On the authority of God's holy word. That will never happen. Jesus is the same. And my friend, because of that, I can stand here today and say to you that if you've not been saved, that He'll save you. Preacher, you don't know me. You don't know what I'm I 'm I'm gone through or what I'm up. No, I don't have to. Here's what I do know. He's still looking for lost people. He's still saving those that call on him. And friend, if you see that you are lost and you need to be saved, and that Jesus Christ is the Savior, cry out to him. You'll not call to a God that's got deaf ears. You know, isn't it funny as you get older, everybody talks quieter? Does anybody else notice that? I mean, Lizbeth, she was saying something today. She's over in the other room. I said, honey, I why do you talk so quiet anymore? Are you I you used to talk really loud You know, and I I'm fearing that the problem ain't her. But the truth of the matter is you'll never get on your knees or or s sit in your seat or Lie there in a hospital bed or wherever you may be and say, Lord, and him say, I didn't hear you He'll hear you when you call. He'll save you if you'll ask him. On the authority of this Bible, friend, listen, God's not playing games with your soul, and neither should you Cry out to him and he'll save you today. Why? Because he's the same. Jesus Christ the same. Yesterday, today, and forever. Friend, if you're not saved, you can be. Just a moment, Brother Dow, come on, please. He's going to have a hymn of invitation And my friend, listen, if you're not saved, why don't you come? You can kneel on this altar, sit on a pew. And if you want somebody to pray with you, if you'll lift your hand, there'll be somebody come along and say, hey, I want to pray with you. If you're saved today, and maybe your heart's just heavy. Maybe the changes of this old world have got you down. Perhaps you're alarmed at what you see, and I'll tell you, I've been all of that in the last little bit. I'm glad there's one I can resort to who's like a strong tower. David said he's a strong tower, a righteous run to him. Maybe you need to get on your knees and say, now Lord, I help me remember you're the same. No matter what's going on around here and out here and all about me, Lord, I'm glad you are the same. Maybe you've been discouraged. Maybe you've gotten away from God. You're not near as close to Him as you ought to be. Be a good morning to get things settled, get right, get close, and say, Now, Lord, I want to live for you and walk with you. Lord, I want my life to count for you. Whatever the need of your heart is, we still believe in an old-fashioned altar where people can kneel and pray. You're very welcome to do that during this hymn of invitation. Would you stand