I'm glad that he does give grace upon grace. And you'll notice the song said out of his infinite riches. That means you can't exhaust it. I'm grateful for that, aren't you? Would you open your Bibles, please, with me to the Gospel of John And chapter number 15 this evening, John chapter number 15. And I want to read one verse in your hearing, John chapter number 15 and verse number 11. I'll invite you to stand with me, please, this evening, and we'll read our text and pray and we'll get into God's Word together. John chapter 15. And verse number 11 says, These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. Father, please help us just now. We've come to the part of the service, Lord, where we desire in our hearts to hear from you through your word. We ask you, O Lord, to do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. Father, I pray that the Spirit of God would be pleased to draw near. And Lord, would you speak to each one of us individually, speak to us collectively, and help us, Lord, as only you can help. I pray your will be done in this gathering. I pray Christ would be glorified in our midst. And Lord, I pray that you'd meet the great need of every heart. And for what you do, we'll praise you and thank you. We appreciate, Lord, the opportunity to gather here. Please give us ears to hear, and better still, hearts that'll obey. And Father, we need you and look to you and thank you, Lord, for your love for us. And I just want to thank you again for your grace that out of your infinite riches and glory, you give and you give and you give again. Now Lord, we're awful needy, and I'm glad, Lord, you're so generous in giving. And so we bow before you and wait upon you and pray, Lord, help in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. The Lord helping me tonight, I I want to speak on this subject of joy. Joy. The Bible says here that these things, Jesus is referring to what he's already said Have I spoken unto you that my joy might remain in you? Now watch this. He said, My joy in you means that your joy will be full. So the joy of the believer is actually the joy of the Lord in us. It's a work of God that He does in our hearts and gives us joy. I want to say a few things by way of introduction. What do we mean by joy? I think the church today is a little bit confused. I'm speaking in broad terms, but the church today I'm afraid sometimes has traded happiness for joy. A lot of people, you know what, they're just having a big time and think it's joy, and having a big time is not joy. The joy of the Lord is a supernatural thing, it's a spiritual thing, it's something that is unattached to our circumstances. Happiness depends on happenstance, what's happening in your life. We're happy. My wife showed me the weather and said it's going to be 81 degrees on Tuesday. And I'll be honest with you, I'm happy about that. I'm tired of being cold and being cool. So I'm happy now. I'll be probably complaining when it's 150 here in a few weeks, but nevertheless I'm happy it's getting warm. That's not joy. Joy is deeper than that. God's people have a joy that can be in their heart while tears run down their face. The joy of the Lord. What are we talking about? It's not happiness. And again, it's not even what we might call silliness or that that shallow, superficial thing that sometimes is labeled as joy. I like this definition. It's a bit long, but it's good. It's a supernatural. Here's what joy is: it's a supernatural calm delight. Gladness of soul that's founded and focused on the Lord It's a supernatural calm delight or gladness of soul that is founded and focused on the Lord. If the Lord's your joy, you always have a reason to have joy. If the joy if it's the joy of the Lord, it's an unchanging thing because he changes not. It's implanted, I'm talking about this joy now, is implanted in the soul by the Spirit of God and increases by discoveries of the person of Jesus Christ. Listen to this over here in 1 Peter, I believe it is. 1 Peter chapter number 1. The Bible tells us a little bit about this joy. 1 Peter 1, verse 18. Verse eight, I'm sorry. Whom having not seen you love In whom though now you see him not, yet believing, you rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. The believer's joy is directly tied to the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And because our joy is directly tied to the person of the Lord Jesus Christ, there's no need for that joy to ever diminish. Because there's no changing or variableness in his person. He always is what he's always been, and he'll always be what he presently is. He is the eternal, great I am. Talking about joy now. The joy of the Lord You say, now, preacher, why does that joy matter? Well, it matters because Jesus prayed that you'd have it. Did you know that? In John chapter number 17, the Bible says this in that great high priestly prayer. I believe John 17 ought to be rightly called the Lord's Prayer. In John chapter 17, verse 13, he says, Now I come to thee, and these things I speak in the world, that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves. You know what Jesus prayed about? He prayed about your joy. He prayed that you would have joy in the Lord. He prayed that there might be a joy in you that and you say, Well, why is that important? What I I really You know, there's people they're kind of born, as they say, on the dark side of the moon. They don't seem to enjoy nothing. But it does matter that we have the joy of the Lord, and here's why. Because Nehemiah tells us in Nehemiah chapter 8 and verse 10 that the joy of the Lord is your strength. You're only as strong as you have joy in the Lord. Now you know why the devil's after it. Now you understand why the devil wants to take ever s ounce of joy you've got in your spiritual life. He wants to eliminate it and remove it because in doing so, he will weaken you in your walk with God and in your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I'm sure you've all heard this acrostic, J-O-Y, Jesus, others, you I'm going to preach those three points, but maybe not in the manner in which that has been uh given. You know, sometimes they say it means Jesus first, others second, you last. Well I believe there's more to it than that. And so I want you to look at that word J or that letter J, and of course that stands for Jesus. Now in the context of what he says here, and you've always got to take your Bible in context, or else You'll take it out of context and you'll have a pretext and you won't have the truth. But he says here, these things have I spoken unto you. What's he talking about? Well, go back up in verse 4. John chapter 15, verse 4 says, Abide in me, and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine, no more can ye, except ye abide in me. You know what he said? If you've got any joy, it's going to come from you drawing it from Jesus. Just like that plant draws its nutrients out of the soil, you must draw your joy from the Lord Jesus Christ. And listen again, there's no reason why we can't have unlimited supplies because the Lord is ever-living. He does not change. I planted some tomatoes last year and I lined the bottom of it with the uh compost that came out of my chicken house. And those tomato plants, they sort of struggled until a few weeks and maybe a month or so, and they just really wouldn't take off. And then all of a sudden it was like they started growing overnight. I mean you could almost watch them grow. Every day they seemed to put on a few inches and then a few inches more and then a few inches more. And the next thing you know, I had tomato plants that I had to look up to to see the top of them And I'm telling you what they did, they got down there where there was some good stuff, and they began to draw life out of that good stuff. I'm saying to you that if I've got any joy, I'm not going to get it just simply by uh shallow circumstances or by silliness. I'm going to get it by getting in the Lord Jesus Abiding in Christ, drawing from him what I stand in need of. My joy must come from the Lord. And by the way, joy is a barometer of your spiritual condition. Let me just say it plain. If you ain't got joy, you're not where you need to be. I'll never forget being a little boy sitting in Sunday school. My preacher came in. Dr. Ralph Sexton Sr. would go to Sunday school to Sunday school just randomly. And uh he would come in, he'd come in our Sunday school one morning, and uh he was, you know, talking to all the boys and girls, and he said, I want to teach you something. And he says, you know, when you get saved, the Lord comes to live in your heart. He takes up residence on the inside. And he said, You know what there is when that happens? There's joy. And you know, we're sitting there, you're young, you don't understand all these terms sometimes, but here's what he said. He said, You know something? You know how you got joy He said, that little canary on the inside singing its heart out. But he said, you know what? Sometimes we do things we shouldn't. And you know what happens? That little bird stops singing. Joy's gone. And I'll never forget him saying with such seriousness, boys and girls, don't lose your joy. Make sure that you're right with the Lord so that you can have joy. I wonder how many Christians tonight don't have joy, maybe sitting here. You say, Preacher, my joy's gone. And it may be because you've let something come between you and the Lord. There cannot be joy if there's sin in our lives. There cannot be joy if there's something between our soul and our Savior. The Bible tells us when David sinned, he lost his joy. Psalm 51, David said, This, make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. He said, my sin has robbed me of joy. And because of that, Lord, would you make me to be joyful again? Hide thy face from my sins and blot out all mine iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from thy presence, and take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. And uphold me with thy free spirit. He said, Lord, I want to be right with you. Make my heart right, make my heart clean, so that I can have joy. Beloved, we need to if if if we had a meter that we could walk around the sanctuary and put over your heart and it registered the amount of joy Would it be measurable in you? And if it's not measurable or if it's lacking, can I say this? Ask yourself why. God never wanted a Christian to be a joyless creature. I don't know if you notice this, and this is sort of a side note, but in the study of Revelation, did you notice how everybody in heaven was joyful? I mean, the angels were joyful, the elders were joyful, the saints were joyful. It seemed to be that all the inhabitants of heaven are joyful. Heaven is going to be a joyful place. It's going to be a place of great joy because there will absolutely be nothing between our soul and our Savior. And I'm saying to you tonight, you can have joy. There is the joy of the Lord. You need that joy. And we must make sure that we're right with the Lord Jesus and drawing from him the joy that our soul needs. The Bible makes it very clear here that joy begins with Jesus. Someone said that when joy, joy returns, where fellowship is restored. You watch the prodigal come home, and by the way, not all prodigals leave the house. There are some prodigals who never leave a church pew, but they're prodigals nonetheless That elder brother, he never left the house. He never stopped serving. He never stopped anything. He kept going being, but he was as much a prodigal as the boy down yonder in the hog pen. But did you notice what joy came back to that home and what joy came back to their hearts when that young man came home? There was joy in everybody except the prodigal. That's why you can sit in church and you'll see a whole multitude of different reactions. There's people that are enjoying the Lord. There's some people who are just enduring the moment. And oftentimes the difference is where's your heart with Christ? Is it right with the Lord? It's when we're right with Him that real joy flows in our innermost being. Jesus said, I want my joy to be, I want my joy to be in you. And the only way to get your His joy in you is that you be rightly connected to Him. But when you're rightly connected to Him, His joy flows into you, and His joy makes your joy full. It overflows And so Jesus is the starting point of joy. Brother, sister, are you where you need to be with Christ? That's a very personal question. And one only you can answer, and only one you should answer before the Lord But it's critically that it's critical that we do answer it, but because the reality is people need to see that the Lord makes a difference. You know, a lot of times I think we are poor witnesses not by our walk, not by our words, but by our simple, joyless way. We endure it. Do you know there are some Christians they seem to have the countenance of someone getting a root canal? And it just seems like the there's no joy. There's something wrong, brother or sister, hear me please. There's something wrong when there is no joy. There's something vastly wrong. And oftentimes we're quick to say, well, you know if this or that or him or her. But the reality is it must begin right here. For joy is a heart matter. Joy is a matter of our hearts being right with God and being right with the Lord Jesus Christ. So let me ask you, how do you stand with the Lord Jesus? Are you drawing from him the joy that your heart needs? Are you getting from the Lord what He desires to give you? It's not that He's stingy or miserly, or somehow or another wants to withhold it. He wants to give you joy. He wants to fill your heart with joy. He said it already that he said, I've written these things or spoken these things, and he said, I've done so that my joy might remain in you. He said, I want it to be there. I want to put it there. I want it to stay there. I want it to flourish there. I want it to fill your heart with joy. By the way, his joy is a lot his ability to give joy is greater than our capacity to receive it. It's like a little boy went down to the store and back when you could get penny candy. You know you'd reach your hand in that jar. No wonder kids back then had an immune system of billy goats, because I'm telling you they're exposed to everything. And so you re reached your hand in there. How many of you how many of you remember that experience? And those of you that haven't had that, you are missing. You missed it. You really missed it. I'm glad I grew up in a backward place where they still did sort of things that they hadn't done anywhere else for 30 years. And uh old McRae's store. Mr. McCrae had a little gas station down the road, and it was a sign of growing up when mom and daddy said you can walk to McCrae's store. And I remember I remember Sunday afternoon dad said, well, you can go with your sister and walk down there to the store. Just watch for cars and you know all that And man, I felt like I was fifty years old, just walking to the store, you know, and old Mr. McCrae had just a handful of little bitty place, maybe eight or ten different types of candies in there And you could reach in and get some. I heard the story of a little boy who went to the store and he the the the owner said, Look, you can have some candy, reach your hand in there and get some And the little boy kind of dropped his head and kicked his feet and acted all backward and shy. His father looked at him and he said, Son, go ahead. He told you to put your hand in there But that little boy just kept acting like he is embarrassed and too shy. And so eventually the shopkeeper put his hand in there, got a great big handful, and put it in a bag, and said, Here, take that home with you, son. I want you to enjoy it His daddy started home and he said to him, Young man, why did you act that way? You're never shy or backward. He said, Dad, because he's got bigger hands than me. Amen And I'm going to tell you something, your God, our Father, has bigger hands. He's got much more joy. And he said, I want to put my joy in you. His ability to give is greater than my capacity to receive. He wants you to be full of joy, brother and sister. Don't let the devil ride you and make you live a joyless life. Don't let the difficulties of life take your eyes off what's real important Please don't allow the clouds that come, the darkness that oftentimes feels our circumstance and our time of life. Don't let all of that rob you of what God wants to give you. Do you know the Lord Jesus? I think of this, that the night that he was to go to the cross and to be betrayed, that they went out of that upper room singing a hymn to God. They had joy. In the face of death. Didn't the Bible tell us in Hebrews 12 that We're to be looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him. Friend, do you have joy? You say, preacher, well I uh you know I'm I'm not that worried about that. You need to be. It's an indicator, it's sort of the canary in the coal mine It's the warning light. It's the check engine light that comes on and says, hey, you need to take care of this. Make sure you're right with me. Listen, Jesus is the starting place of joy. Secondly, notice this word letter zero or or zero, O. It's others Others. What does that mean? Well, we're connected as believers one to another. How many times does the Bible liken the Christian to a body? And you know what he says about the body? It don't have just one member, it's got a bunch. You got a nose and two ears and mouth and eyes and head and hands and arms and Legs and feet and all the rest of that business. And it's all connected. It's all connected. You know this, that one part of your body affects your whole body. Whoever thought allergies would make you feel so miserable? If you've ever had allergy problems You th uh listen, so there are certain things you get allergic to and it starts to bloom or whatever and that pollen I I I pine pine uh pollen the pollen off the pine trees w just about kills me. And uh especially down North Carolina, they have uh pine trees and I'm telling you what, when that pollen begins, i it it's it's like a fog that comes in, this great big yellow fog off them pine forests And boy, you talk about something that'll mess you up. But I'm telling you, pollen can make you have an allergic reaction that makes you feel like you're two steps away from death. And all it is is an allergy. It's because your body is so intricately connected that every little part affects the other. And I'm saying that to say this, that we as Christians are intimately connected one to another. And listen to what Paul said to the Corinthians. He said 1 Corinthians 12 25 that there should be no schism in the body. But that the members should have the same care one for another. And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it, or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it, now ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular. So in other words, my joy can be affected by my relationship with other believers. Not only is my joy made full by my connection to the Lord Jesus Christ, but please understand that my joy can be affected by my connection or disconnection from other believers. In the book of Philippians, uh Paul reminded um I hope I'm saying these names right, but Sintesh and Judas. Every time I say them, I think of an old preacher I heard who called them soon touchy and odious. So, but you know, when you think about it, it it's kind of true because he told them, be of the same mind. He said, you soon touch you and odious, you you need to be of the same mind. Get on the same page. Stop being contrary to each other, because you're losing your joy. Philippians chapter 2, let me read it to you here. Philippians chapter 2 and verse 2 Fulfill ye my joy, Paul said, that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Body life, I'm talking about believers now, affects our joy. When Christians are crossways with Christians, there can't be much joy. God never made Christians to be at odds one with another. God never made the believer to be at odd listen, the Bible tells us that we're to dwell at peace. We talked about that this morning. And joy is revived where believers are right with each other. When Paul wrote to Philemon about Onesimus , He said, It'll bring my heart joy if you'll do what I'm asking you to do. And what was Paul asking him to do? He was saying, I'm asking you to forgive Onesimus. And to bring him back, and he's now not just a servant, but he's your brother. He's a believer now. And so I want you to bring him back, and I want you to treat him right, because he's he's part of the body. He's part of the body. Beloved, as we think about others in our joy, oftentimes our joys are awry because our spirits are awry one with another. Now I hope that point didn't kill his service, but it's true. If we'd get forgiveness, if we'd be forgiving. I believe we could have revival. I read of two old farmers praying for revival and Wales prayed for five years. Met once a week in the top of a barn asking God to send revival. The older and the younger man had had words and they were crossways. And during that meeting, that older man said, You know what? We do not well He said, We're praying for revival, but yet we will not speak one to another. He got up and walked across the hay -off and said to the young man, Would you forgive me? And the young man immediately stood to his feet and said, No, please forgive me. And they made amends, and on that very week God sent Holy Ghost revival. And I believe nothing hinders the work of God like people of God being at odds with each other. I'm telling you, the devil works overtime to do it. Those little grudges, those little offenses, those little foxes, they spoil the vine. They rob us of the joy of the Lord. Those little slights and those little offenses, by the way, often you say, what causes contention? Please hear what the Bible says. Only by pride cometh contention. Somebody said, whose pride? Your pride, my pride. Contention comes from pride. And beloved, listen, if we're going to have joy, we've got to be right with each other. I've seen the Lord do some wonderful things in that. When I first took the church up north there was a family they'd been fighting and they they really hated this one deacon And they didn't have all the story of why he had to do what he had to do. And when all of that came out through a series of circumstances. I remember seeing that elderly lady. She really hated this man. She told me when I came there to leave that church. Here's what she said. She said, you ought to put him in a box and take him to the woods and leave him. I said, what? She said, he's trouble. I said, well, I don't know about that. We'll see. I'm telling you, she said, he's trouble. And when all of this wash, this came out in the wash, I'll never forget she was sitting there in this meeting on a Tuesday night with just seven of us members who were there. And we heard the whole story, and everybody heard and knew what this one man knew. And she looked over there at him, and I thought, don't lie into him now. This isn't a place. And she got up and she walked over there and she said, Donnie. His name was Don, but she was probably 30 years older than him, so she called him Donnie. She said, Donnie, I'm sorry. I've been mad at you. Listen to this. She was mad at him for 20 years. And I I want you to forgive me. And he said, I forgave you a long time ago. And she said, no, I'm very serious. I want you to forgive me because I have been very angry at you and I've held grudge in my heart. And and and and he he sorta knew it and others did too and she had sorta rallied some folk around her and she said I'm I I was angry and and and they're talking loud enough. I mean there's only seven, eight, nine, ten of us sitting there at that meeting so you can hear everything that's going on. And then another one says, you know what? And this come out of the blue. I I was mad at you. And before you know, I didn't realize there'd be so many people that were fighting each other and so many people that were contrary to one another, and the next thing you know they're saying, I'm sorry, forgive me, I'm sorry, forgive me, I'm sorry, forgive me. I'm gonna tell you something, that was a different church the next time we met. And from that time, you know what? We went almost six months, had somebody saved Sunday night, Sunday morning, Wednesday night, and people come from everywhere. God was working. You know why? Because Christians got right with each other. Brother, sister, if your joy's gone, you ought to stop and ask the question, Who am I mad at unjustly? Who am I upset with in a wrong way? Who do I need to get right with? My heart needs to be examined. Let the Holy Ghost do that. Oftentimes our joy goes out the window. How many have you been married 25 years or more? Twenty-five years, all right. Can I ask you a question? You ever got crossface? That was ignorant, wasn't it? Because I know the emphatic answer. Absolutely. And let me ask you something. There's no joy when there's quarreling at home. No joy. When you're at odds with each other, I mean it it it's a drudgery. Can I ask you a question, brother, sister? Is there joy in your heart? And if there's not, is it because there's something between you and a brother or sister? It's a whole lot better to swallow your pride and go and say, I'm sorry, will you forgive me? Because it's better to be right with God and to have the joy of the Lord than to be sort of right in your spirit or feel like you're right in your spirit for being mad. The question that God asked Jonah is, Doest thou well to be angry Last one U. The letter Y U The Bible says that I'm to submit to God. Sometimes my joy, the joy of the Lord, is not what it ought to be. Because I'm not submitted to Christ. I find this interesting in Second Corinthians chapter eight Paul said those Macedonian believers did something rather remarkable. Out of their poverty and affliction, they gave a very large offering for the saints that were suffering. But he said they did it not in the way we expected. He said they first submitted themselves to God and then gave themselves to us. And so in other words, what he's saying here is that they had surrendered to the Lord. They said, now Lord, what do you want us to do? Now you might say they were justified, they were poor, they were afflicted, they were in turmoil, they didn't have a lot of money, and you say, well, they're justified not to be, not to give, but no, they wanted to get in on what God was doing. And so they said, now Lord, here we are. If you'll give it to us, we'll give it to you. They submitted themselves to the Lord. And I think sometimes we often do not have the joy of the Lord because we're fighting God on some issue. I imagine old Jonah, and I think of him often, sitting up there on that heel watching Nineveh, hoping God would blow it out of the water. And then can you imagine how miserable he was? Man, he, you know what, he hadn't submitted to the Lord. And so he's sitting there and he's pouting and he's mad and he's upset and he's looking over the valley and he's saying, God, why aren't you doing what I want you to do? I knew that you're merciful, and if I come up here and preach and they repent, you'd forgive them, and here we are. He's mad He had no joy. I bet every time he got up he tripped over his bottom lip. He's just had it run out so far. He had no joy. Can I ask you a question? What is it you're fighting God over? It may be a call The most miserable time in my Christian life was when I did not want to do what I knew God wanted me to do. And I would make excuses, I'd hear a message, and God would speak, and I would say, No, Lord, that that that don't that's not me. That might be good for everybody else, but that's not for me. But you know what? I can't tell you the joy that came when I surrendered my life to Christ I mean, when I submitted and said, whatever it is you want me to do, Lord, I'll do. Now let me ask you something. Is there something God's dealing with you about that you just won't give over to Him? It may be something he says give up. It may be some area where God says go forward. It may be some calling that God's put on your heart and life. And you must surrender. Beloved, there will never be joy until you submit yourselves to the Lord. But all the joy that comes when you say, Lord, yes. When you say, Lord, here am I. When you say, Lord, listen. Like Isaiah of old, who said, Here am I, send me. When Isaiah surrendered before the Lord, there was such joy. He saw heaven full of God's glory. And some of that glory got down in Isaiah's heart, and the joy of the Lord flooded his being. I do not believe with billions of people on this planet. And an untold number of people who are dying without Christ, that God is not calling any more than He is I do not believe that they're uh that that the days of reaching people and people going into full-time Christian ministry and Serving the Lord with all of their hearts. I don't believe those days are over. I do believe it's needed more than ever before. It may just be that some are refusing to submit. They're seeking their way, not God's way. They want what they want. They say, well, if I go that way, then I'll miss this or I'll miss that. Let me tell you something. You'll not miss anything doing God's will. You'll find what God made you for if you'll submit yourself to the Lord. So, dear friend, can I ask you tonight, if we were to walk through this building and measure your level of joy , Where would your stand? Where is your joy? Psalm 16, 11 says, Thou wilt show me the path of life, and in thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. May the Lord help us to take this little acrostic and ask the Lord to show us. Lord, why do I not have joy? Or why is my joy not full? Is it because I'm not abiding in Christ? Is it because I've let a relationship, a situation cause me to sin against the Lord, and I need to get that thing right? You know God still has one remedy. for internal conflict, and that's go to that brother, that sister, and get it right Not get on the phone and call everybody or tell your buddies or friends. You tell them and the Lord. And make it right. It may be God's just saying, Come follow me. Come follow me And you'll never have joy until you say, Lord, I'm here. I'll do what you want me to do. Would you stand with me, please? Be a good evening to use the altar if God's dealt with your heart. If our piano succumb for