I'm glad he is the answer. And uh certainly someone said, well, is he is he the answer for every question? I'll say this, he's the answer for every question that matters. He is the answer. I want you to take your Bibles and go with me to Romans chapter number three. And I'm going to read a portion of Romans chapter 3. We're going to try to cover the teaching in this particular chapter this morning. and emphasize this word justified. Justified. I remind you that the Romans chapter 3, in fact, the whole book of Romans is a courtroom scene. Man is on trial before God. Strange, we live in a day where it seems like God's on trial before man. But in the Bible, it is man who's on trial before God. Man does not sit in the seat of a judge, but God does. And as we consider facing the Lord, like we studied last week in Romans chapter number two. There's only one thing that really matters, and that is this. Are you justified? Now the word justified is a legal term. It was a term that was used in the courts of Rome, and it is a term that in uh a very large sense is used In courtrooms all around the world. The word justified means to be declared legally righteous. Now these are words I want us to know. I know we sing about them, we uh talk about them, we read about them, but I want us to really know them because understanding what the Bible says is going to help you in a very real way spiritually. The word righteous is i is the absolute, if we can say it like this, the perfection of God. God is righteous. That means he's perfectly holy. There's no flaw. There's no sin. There's no wrong in him. When Jesus was tempted to sin upon the earth, he was tempted to sin and yet the Bible says he had no sin. You say, well, what was the temptation for? It was for an example for you and I. Our Lord could not sin because he didn't have a sin nature. Now look, you and I, when we're tempted to sin, we're apt to sin because we have a sin nature. But our Lord Jesus did not have a sin nature. Our God is a righteous God. He's pure and holy and true. And listen, here's the big question to Romans: how can a sinful man be justified before a holy God? Well, there must be a way for him to be declared righteous before that can happen. And you say, well, how can a man who's dirty in sin be made righteous in the eyes of God? Well I hope to get that point across here this morning. But being justified is that legal declaration of righteousness. Let me read a verse and then we'll pray again. Verse 24. Being justified freely By his grace, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Let's pray. Father, as we come into your presence this morning, we acknowledge our great need. As we open this book, we realize, Lord, that the things that are revealed here are spiritually discerned. We make it our prayer today that you would come be our teacher. Lord, in mercy, would you speak to us? We'll give you the glory. Father, for those who are saved, just help them to see so clear what you've done. But those who aren't saved, help them to see what you can do. And Lord, would you do something very special in all of our hearts so that we can leave today saying it's been good to be in the house of the Lord. And Father, I just want to stop and say it's already been good to be in the house of the Lord. I thank you for the hymns that the church has sung. I thank you, Lord, for the special the choir sang. Thank you for Brother Dow's special. Lord, I want to thank you for these precious reminders. And they seem to have all been centered around the fact that Jesus saves. So Lord, make that quite clear to us now. We pray, and we'll thank you for all that you do, for we pray in Jesus' name and God's people said amen. Now I'm not going to take the time this morning to read the whole chapter. I'd love to, but I'm going to ask you to do that on your own time. But when you read the first part of Romans chapter number three, you begin to see in talking about Judaism And look with me at verses one and two of Romans three. He asks this question, What advantage then hath the Jew? Or what profit is there of circumcision? Much every way, chiefly because that unto them were committed the oracles of God Talking about the scriptures, by the way. The oracles of God. So let me say this, just right as a way of introduction, that justification does not come Because of advantages. The Jewish people had advantages. You say, what were their advantages? Number one, they were God's chosen people The Lord chose them out of all the nations of the earth, and he took that little people, and he decided that that would be the people from whom he would work upon this earth. By the way, God hadn't changed his mind. It is still the way of God's dealing. You say, preacher, what time is it? You know, I was in here Friday and I said that clock, that clock's beat me for about four or five years. And uh just couldn't figure out how to run the silly thing. And uh Sarah knew how to run it and then she got married and left us and abandoned us, didn't tell us how to run it And so I got on the internet and found out what it was and I downloaded the manual and I stood back there with great joy Friday evening. And I made that clock do what it's supposed to do with that little remote. I felt good about whipping that clock, I'm telling you. After all these years of that thing humiliating me. I'm glad now I know how to straighten it out. But anyway You look back there and you say, Preacher, what time is it? Now if you're here this morning and you're kind of confused and you're saying, Preacher, I thought it's Sunday school and Dr. Hitch was supposed to be up there Well, you didn't change your clock. It is not ten twenty-four. It is eleven twenty-four. That's our time piece. It tells us what time it is. But if you want to know what time it is in the world, you don't look at a clock. You look at a little nation over in the Middle East called Israel. And you look at those people and see what's happening in relationship to them, that is God's timepiece in the world Now they have an advantage. Not only are they God's chosen people, but they're God's people through whom he communicated. God gave us a Bible that is Jewish in origin. You can cut it however you want to cut it, but the reality is that Bible has a Jewish origin. And so we we owe a great debt. They had advantages. They had the advantage, he uses this word circumcision. Circumcision was that outward sign of an inward covenant with the Lord. It represented a people who were committed to, covenanted with, who had a relationship with God based on promise, not so much their promise, but God's promise. And so they have advantage. But can I say this? Advantage does not justify you before God. You say, Preacher, I grew up in church. That's an advantage. That's an advantage. Preacher, I carry a Bible. I read my Bible. That's an advantage. Preacher, I know all the language, I know all the terminology, I know the words of Scripture and some of their meanings, and look, all of that's an advantage. You say, I was raised in a Christian home. And I'm going to tell you something. I believe if we would get America recovered again, it will happen by establishing some Christian homes. A Christian home is an advantage. A crossless home is a disadvantage. We are seeing a multitude of people. In fact, the majority of people in this great nation are raised in unchristian homes. Little fella joined his family to dedicate a new baby. He was part of the family. He stood up there and the preacher talked about the kind of home this little kid was going to be raised in, this baby was going to be raised in, and challenged them, and said, now this is a Christian home. When they got ready to leave church that day, that little boy started crying and he said, Mom, Dad, I want to stay with you. I don't want to go live in that home the preacher talked about Well the truth is a lot of Christian homes are not Christian homes. But but listen, having a Christian home is an advantage. It it's and I thank God, I'll be honest with you, I've not always been appreciative of the home the Lord let me be raised in. But the older I get, the more grateful I am for my home. I'm thankful for a saved mother and a saved father. Not a perfect mother, a perfect father, far from it, but a saved mother and a saved father who raised us in the fear and admonition of the Lord. My dad feared God in just a very simple way that I watched him. I'll share something with you here this morning, and our culture is so far from the Bible. That we don't have much fear of God anymore. But I remember my my father had a real problem for several years. He couldn't quit smoking cigarettes. And he prayed and said, Lord, take it away from me. And well, when he landed in the hospital with a heart attack, and the doctor said, Okay, you smoke those things again, he said, six weeks you'll be dead. Miraculously he lost the taste for them. But I remember this, he always carried them in his backright pocket in a st in a metal case And when we went to church on Sunday morning and turned on Shelburne Road, our church was located at 216 Shelburne Road. When we turned on Shelburne Road, he got them cigarettes out of his pocket. He put him in the glove box of his car and he locked it. I've watched him do that a thousand times. I'd look at it and I'd say, what's he doing? And I asked him one day, I said, Daddy why don't you lock them in there and and take them out of your pocket when we go to church? He said, Son, I'm embarrassed by this. I ought not to be doing it, but he said, them things don't deserve to be around the house of God. He said, God's a far holier God than that. You say, well why didn't well don't don't be so hard on him. You've got some nasty things that you do that you need to stop doing if you just listen to God about it. But I I'm saying I was raised, I believe, in a Christian home, not a perfect home, but a Christian home, and I thank the Lord for it. And it was an advantage. But please hear me. That Christian home did not justify me before God. I'm thankful we live in the nation that we live in, the freedoms and the advantages that we have as a country. And she may not be all she ought to be, but she sure ain't like the rest of them around, and I'm thankful for my freedoms. But I'm saying that none of these advantages will justify you before God. Paul was saying you had people in Paul's day who said, I don't need to be justified, I'm a Jew. And we have people in our day that say, I don't need to be justified, I'm a Baptist. I don't need to be justified, I'm a church member. I don't need to be justified. I've been baptized. I don't need to be justified. I've been sprinkled. I've been confirmed. I was raised in a Christian home, and so I don't need to be justified. Hear me, please. Advantages do not justify you before God. Number two, I want you to notice by way of introduction that we need justification because of God's law. Why do I need to be justified? Because I'm a sinner. Look what the Bible says in verse number nine. What then are we better than they? Talking about the Gentiles over the Jews? Are we better than they? No, in no wise. For we have before proved, both Jews and Gentiles, watch this, that they are all under sin Let's read on. As it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way. They are together become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good. No, not one. What's the Bible saying? The Bible is saying we're all sinners. Well, for sure, I don't sin like this. Well, you may not sin like this, but you sin like that. And to sin like that is just the same as sinning like this, and so we're guilty to break one of the commandments we the Bible says, James said, we've broken them all. That we have all, there's none, that that we're all in the same boat. And I I I I marvel at this that somehow or another we get this thinking in our mind that somehow we're better. I love how Paul started this. He said, we are not better than they We might have advantages or we might have disadvantages. We might not have uh this sin, but we might have that sin. And listen, man tries to confuse himself with the thoughts that, well, I don't do that. At least I haven't murdered. Or at least I haven't committed adultery. And somehow or another we justify ourselves, and yet the Bible says there's none good. There's none that are righteous. Read on with me if you will. The Bible says, and now it gets real specific here. Their throat is an open sepulchre. With their tongues they've used deceit, the poison of asps is under their lips, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. So man is condemned by his words. Our words, how vile our words can be And by the way, may I remind you that the the root of your tongue runs right into your heart. Because words reveal what's in the heart. Then he says, their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their ways. The way of peace have they not known. You see, I believe until you're utterly, thoroughly, totally convinced you're lost, you will never be saved. Until you are utterly, thoroughly, totally convinced you're a sinner, you will not seek a savior. Until you're utterly, totally, thoroughly convinced that you have broken the law of God, you will not seek to be justified by the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe that we get too big a hurry sometimes in trying to see people saved and trying to offer some sort of remedy and they don't even know what the problem is. We try to tell them that you need to be saved and they look at you with like you've got three heads and say, from what? Because they do not know, they do not understand that they have broken the law of God. Understand this, the Bible makes things so very clear. So abundantly clear, so that you and I read it, and I'll tell you what it does. It condemns us all. The law does not leave one stone unturned. The utter perfection of the law makes you and I it's sort of there was a fellow talking about a house one time. He said, I painted that house white. Well, it looked white until it snowed. And when it snowed, that house wasn't white. Now Ben tells me that the sighting on the fellowship hall is green. I can't see it I can't see it until it snowed. And when it snowed, I thought, you know what? I believe old Ben 's got Superman eyes. Because I could see green in that sighting. I had never really seen green in that sighting until it snowed. When you hold a perfection uh against an imperfection, it's the imperfection that really stands out. And when we look at the law of God, the law of God is perfect, and God holds up the law, and we look in the mirror of the law, and we say, Uh-oh. I'm not perfect. I broke that law. I look in that mirror and I say, ooh, that needs to change. Now I'm looking at a bunch of lovely people here this morning. Now mind you, I don't have my glasses on. But I'm looking at a group of lovely people, and here's what I know: some of you visited a mirror. Combed your hair? Well, combed your hair? Sorry, brother. I can see that You you you you know you fixed yourself. I promise you nobody here woke up looking as pretty as you do right now. I guarantee you that And you know what that mirror did? The mirror said, There's a flaw, there's a pre-there's something fixed that, there's and it pointed it out Understand that God gave us the law not to be justified before God. You cannot take the law and say I'm going to live by it. and and try to follow it and that will justify me before God. Why? Because you can't do it. The purpose of the law is not so that you can live perfect The purpose of the law is to show you that you're not perfect and that you need a perfect righteousness. He says in verse 18, there's no fear of God before their eyes. Now we know, verse 19, that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. That's the ministry of the law. The law does not justify you. You say, preacher, I'm keeping the golden rule. Keep the golden rule all you can, but I'm going to tell you that won't justify you before God. You say, preacher, we ought to live by the law. Well, listen to me. You do your very best to try to follow the law of God. I believe it's God's order, it's God's moral perfection, but no man can keep the law. The law is not there for you to keep it, it's not there for you to follow it, it's not there for you to be justified, it's there to condemn you. Here's how Paul put it in the book of Galatians. He said the law is our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. It's intended to be that schoolmaster. And if I understand that term right, it's a term of discipline. That it is the discipline to bring us to Christ. Now, some of you are old enough to remember when a teacher gets a hold of your ear. Does anybody remember that? And if you did something wrong, that teacher would get a hold of your ear and would lead you somewhere. Right. I know some of you never got in trouble your whole life, you sweet little things. But some of us, I'll tell you, it's a wonder I don't have elephant ears as much as they've been pulled and drug on. In kindergarten, they said a uh a teacher was going to show us an experiment with marshmallows. And she left the room. And I'm little and hungry. And I'm looking at them marshmallows thinking, man, they're gonna taste good. And so I polished off a whole bag of marshmallows before she got back. And when she walked in that room, she said, Where those marshmallows go? And I sat there like a rat full of his I mean my cheeks were bulged out she knew I did it. I'll never forget she got me by my ear And she got a hold of my ear and she pulled me out of my seat and drugged me down the hall and took me to Principal Warren. Mr. Warren was the principal, a little bitty small man, always wore a bow tie. He was an old-time Methodist Christian. He would have devotions with us and pray with us over the intercom ever every morning. He loved the Lord and wanted us to be saved. And before he spanked me, he told me he read scripture and told me how I broke the law of God and what a wicked man I was for doing that thing. And I'm sitting there thinking, man, alive, I'm going to help her eating a bag of marshmallows. Lost as a goose, man. I mean, he condemned me with that law. But listen to me, that law is our schoolmaster. It takes me by the ear and it leads me to the Lord Jesus so that I can find somebody who will show me mercy. Who can give me what I don't have? And what I don't have, what you don't have, is righteousness. Now understand something. The devil's a master counterfeiter. And he wants you to have your own righteousness. Paul wrote about some people who went about seeking to establish their own righteousness. And there are people, listen, you say that was the Jews. Well, the Judaizers tried that. They tried to add circumcision. They tried to add keeping the law. They tried to add observing holy days, following the ceremonies. They tried to add all of that to Jesus Christ in hopes that that would justify them before God. And Paul says, You cannot be justified by those things But there are people today, and beloved, if you'll just hear me now, there are self-righteous people. And they're trying to establish their own righteousness And so they believe they're justified before God by their behavior. Now, I believe a Christian ought to live right, act right, look right, and do right. Amen. But all of that will not justify you before the Lord. There is a movement among us that that people say, well, I do this and that and that and that, and I don't do that and that and that and that, and therefore I'm righteous. Hold on a minute, buddy. You are only righteous because of the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Your list, whatever it may be, your list of things you do and don't do does not make you righteous. Don't let the devil sell you a bill of goods and make you feel like you are righteous because of what you do. You are righteous because of what Jesus did, not because of what you do. All of our righteousness, if we take all of our lists and put them together And we say, Well, I do this and I don't do that. And I'll tell you something. Don't let the devil infiltrate your mind that way. Because it'll make you a proud Christian. There are people who are saved, they're trusting the Lord Jesus. But they go about trying to establish their own righteousness that Paul talked about. And they make their big long list and they look down their long spiritual nose and they say, I'm more spiritual than you because I don't or I'm more spiritual than you because I do. And they forget that the only righteousness a man can have is the righteousness of Jesus Christ. It is his righteousness that justifies me before a holy God. Now I'm gonna tell you something, that makes you want to live right. Because if he'd do something like that for me, why in the world could I not do everything he asked of me? Well, this righteousness, it does not come to advantage. It is needed because of the law. So where does it come from? Where can I get this righteousness? Look at verse 21. But now, by the way, when we're studying Romans I keep wanting to say Revelation, but Romans, when we study Romans, when you see a butt now, pay attention. Because what he's been talking about is getting ready to be contrasted by something that's a whole lot better. He's been talking about the law, and he's been talking about condemnation. He's been talking about how advantages don't justify us, but now he's about to shift gears and tell you how to be justified. But now look at it The righteousness of God without the law is manifested being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ, unto all and upon all them that believe, for there is no difference. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. I want you to notice the righteousness which is by faith. We've already established that the law reveals God's perfection Do you want to know how holy God is? Look at his law. Do you want to know how pure God is? Look at his law. Do you want to know how holy a God you serve? Read your Old Testament and look at how pure God was and how he punished impurity. They touched the ark? Dead. How many thousand was it? How many thousand when they scooted the lid off Looked in fifty? Looked in, bam. Just like that. Somebody said the holiness of God uh was was flashing out of that ark and there was no mercy seat, there was no blood covering, and because of that fifty thousand slain immediately. That's how holy God is God is so holy that right now around the throne they're singing, Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God Almighty. And it's a reverberation that's filling all of heaven. And all of time and all of eternity, as they sing and cry, the cherubim, the seraphim, they're singing holy, the four twenty elders, they're singing, holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. That's how holy God is. And you say, well, preacher, as dirty as I am, how can I ever be made righteous? Look at verse 23. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. The law reveals righteousness, but the law also condemns unrighteousness in us. We're all unrighteous. We've all sinned. Everybody here has sinned. And if you've got a low view of your sin, I fear you don't have a high view of the Savior. If you can say, well, it was a mistake. No, it's more than that. You broke the law of God. You transgressed against the Lord. Your trouble's not this way. Your trouble's not horizontal. Your trouble's vertical. Man's not in trouble with man. Forget that. Man's in trouble with God. And the answer and the solution must be Godward, not manward. But I love verse 22, this righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ. Watch this now. Under all and upon all them that believe. Under all and upon all. Let that word soak in a minute. Unto all and upon all. This righteousness which comes by faith is not just given to me, it's put on me. It's like a robe or a covering that covers my filth. It totally covers me up. I need somebody sm smaller than me. And I know that's not hard to find. Let me get a young fella up here. Is Kyle in here? Come on Just come up here right quick with me, buddy, and I I want you to imagine. Now you're gonna have to use your imagination for a minute. You're gonna have to imagine that Kyle is filthy dirty. Alright, come on up here. Filthy dirty. Look how nasty that boy is. All right. His his cloth I mean this i i his old shirt's torn and stained. I mean I can see what you had for breakfast right there and maybe your dinner right there. I don't know. Man. This boy's filthy. And and he he needs cleanse, he needs a covering. And the Bible says that even the righteousness, look at it, verse 22. Of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe. Now, Kyle can't do anything about his dirt. He can't get it off. He can't put it away. Hey, do you know what I learned? I learned that they make adult bibs. Did you know that? Can I make a confession? I got one to match Jack's. Cause on Sunday, if I don't, I'll ruin my shirt. Right? They claim it ain't good if you don't get it on you. So I get a lot on me. And I don't have time to wash my shirt between church, so I gotta protect myself. Well, here he is. He's dirty. He needs cleansing. And you know what the Bible says? Let's let Kyle represent the sinner. The laws condemned him. He has no righteousness of his own. You know, Adam and Eve said, we'll sow fig leaves. God said that, don't cut it. We'll be religious. I'll go to church. That won't do it. You need something better than that. You need something stronger than that. And so here's what God did. He said, I'll send my son My son will die on the cross and pay your sin debt in full. He'll take the wrath of God upon himself. And he will give to you in exchange by faith righteousness. He said, I'm gonna take that righteousness and I'm gonna cover you up. I'm gonna cover you up so that covers you pretty good. We are different in size, my friend. He covers it up pretty good. You make a dress out of this thing. He covers him up Now all that dirt's gone. All that unrighteousness is gone. It's under all and upon all by faith. Do you realize that you are justified by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ? What your religion can't do, what your good works can't do, what e everything you try can't do, God in Christ did completely. And he covered you up totally. And he made you righteous in his eyes. Now listen to me. If you're saved this morning, you're righteous. You're not going to be, thank you, buddy. You can go be seated. You're not going to be righteous. You're not hoping to be righteous. You are righteous in the Lord Jesus Christ. He has put his righteousness over you, so now that sin is no more. When God looks at you, he don't see the dirt and the filth and the ungodliness He sees the righteousness of Jesus Christ. How did that happen? By faith. You had no part in it. If I could emphasize anything here this morning, I would say you had no part in it. You didn't do it. You didn't accomplish it. You didn't make it happen. You don't contribute to it. It's the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And it covers you completely. Now listen to me. Some of you sitting here are saved and going to heaven, and the devil's whooped you all week long. I ain't much of a Christian. How do you think you're going to God's heaven? I mean, just look at what a failure you are. Sound familiar? I'm glad I can open my Bible and read. Undo all and upon all. That believes. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is what made me righteous. My righteousness is not of my own, it's not of my doing. It's not mine. And I'll tell you that won't Blow you up like a peacock and make you proud. That'll make you come low before God and say, Why would you do such a thing for me? Why do you love me like that? But I want you to know I appreciate it and I adore you and praise you and love you and give you glory because you gave me your righteousness Oh, quickly. Number two, the redemption that's in Christ. Look at verse 24. Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus Being justified. Look at that. Justified. The declaration. See, not only did God robe me in the righteousness of Christ, then he made a legal decree. He said in the courts of the heaven, justified. If I could simplify that word, I would say just as if I'd never sinned. God's reading my title clear, He's reading my record. I I I remember it, the devil remembers it, your family remembers it, your friends remember it, but God don't remember it. He's declared you righteous. Justified. You're justified in the eyes of the Lord Now you think about that for a minute. God has declared me legally righteous. And that's how it comes. Freely, freely, by his grace. You don't buy this. There's no money or currency on earth that can purchase it. You can't pile all the gold up and say, I'll give you so much gold, I'll give you all the silver. None of that is is is currency that's recognized. How does it come? It comes by grace. We're saved by grace through faith, and that not of ourselves, it is the gift of God. Do you know what we all are? We're all debtors to the grace of God. Everybody here who's saved is a debtor to grace. You owe everything to what Christ did and nothing to what you've done And notice this thing of redemption being purchased. The Bible tells me we're not bought with those vain things like silver and gold. Or those vain traditions, we're bought with a price. And what's the price? The precious blood of Christ, as a lamb without spot or blemish. See, when God redeems a man, he justifies him. When he justifies a man, he makes him righteous. This all happened the moment you believed on the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm gonna tell you something. We put a whole lot of stock in things that aren't important. We say, well, preacher, and there's people that battle with this. Well, preacher, I'm not sure I cried enough or I understood it all. Or I prayed the right thing, or I I did this, or that the other, and I hear that, and here's what I hear. I'm trying to justify. I'm trying to be justified. I'm trying to be justified. You know what you need to do? You need to take your Bible and make it a real sweet pillar and put your little head on it and just rest. And rest in the reality that Jesus Christ paid the price. Rest in the truth that he declared you righteous, justified. You're never going to know all this. I studied this again this week and I thought, how dumb am I? How do I not know some of this? Lord, teach me and help me. And even though I preached it, it's fresh in my heart again. And let me just say this, friend You are not going to know all the ins and outs. You're not going to understand all that the Lord's done. But what he does say is by faith. Are you believing on the Lord Jesus? Then rest. Just rest. Preacher friend of mine told a story this week. He said he flew to California, I believe it was. The first time he ever got an airplane. He said he was nervous. And he said he he got in there and he said he was so tense he was holding the uh armrest of that thing Boy, he said that when that that engine started ramping up and took and and you know accelerating and they started down the runway, man, he said he was breathing hard and he said he caught himself. It was like he's trying to help that thing get off the ground. And he said as that thing started to get up in the air, he just sort of set up in his seat and kind of lifted himself like he was helping that thing take off He said, I got up there and we flew a few hours and he said I realized you are a dummy. You didn't help that thing get off the ground. That thing got off the ground without your puny little effort. Here's what I'm trying to tell you. There's a lot of people saved in going to God's heaven. They're hanging on that seat. And they're trying and they're working and they're they're hoping and they're believing and they're they're they're saying, Lord, I I I want to make sure I prayed right, I Wanna do this, that, the other. Listen to me, sit down and enjoy the ride Recognize that you're not doing it. Salvation's of the Lord. We got to get a God-centered salvation instead of a man-centered salvation. I'm for getting people saved and trying to get them saved, but I'm here to tell you it's God who saves them, not you nor me We've got to get this out of our heads that somehow or another, if we'll sell it right, if we're slick enough, if we're polished enough, if we can just pressure 'em right, if we can do all this, we'll get them in. All of that will just produce false converts You might sell them a bill of goods, but you'll never see them eternally saved like that. But I'll tell you let God the Holy Ghost get in there and start doing something. And you let the Spirit of God open a man's eyes and he realizes he's lost and he runs to Jesus Christ, I'll tell you he saves everybody that'll come to him. He'll save everybody that comes to him. We have this truth here of the redemption that is in Christ. Christ saves as we believe upon him, justifies man, then the remission of sin. Look in verse 25, please. Whom God has set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remissions of sins that are past Through the forbearance of God, to declare, I say at this time, his righteousness, that he might be just and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. How does God remove sin or remit sin? Through a propitiation. The Bible says in 1 John 2, 2, that He's the propitiation for our sins, not for our sins only, but for the sins of the whole world. Jesus Christ satisfied the righteous demands of God to the full. The wrath of God was poured out on the Lord Jesus Christ He became that great satisfier and substitute for the sins of mankind. Understand this morning that when you believe on the Lord Jesus, you're putting your faith in the blood of the Lord Jesus. You cannot divorce this. You cannot say the blood is of no value. You cannot say that the blood of Jesus is not important. You must recognize that it is the blood of Christ that cleanses us from all sin. And so we see here the remission of sin. He takes sin away and replaces it with his righteousness. And I love this, he's just and the justifier. So how can an unholy man go to a holy heaven and stand before a holy God and be right? Because God is just He 's so just that he punished his son for sin. He doesn't wink at sin. He can't do that. He's holy. He had to deal with sin, and sin was dealt with on the cross. I told our class today we're talking about stewardship. When I stand at the judgment seat of Christ, I will not stand as someone who's answering for sin. My sin was answered for on the cross of Jesus Christ. The answer, Dhabrother Dow was singing, Jesus is the answer. You know your sin needs an answer Your sin is crying out. You can try to drown it with liquor. You can try to shoot it up with drugs and get it out of your mind. You can try to put it away with pleasure. But when you close your eyes, that sin looms like some dark cloud on the horizon. You cannot run from your sin. And the reality is that sin must be dealt with. But Jesus Christ took the place of man. And he suffered in our stead, God, the very God, punishing God, his son. And there on the cross, he made an atonement. He shed his blood. He became propitious. He became our propitiation. Propitiation's a person, it's not necessarily a place. He's my propitiation. Jesus is my propitiation, and so he took that wrath of God. That made God just and now he's the justifier He says, if you'll come to God through me, if you'll come through the Lord Jesus Christ, you can be cleansed of all sin. Sin, listen, sin 's judgment. has no sway or no threat to you because it's been poured out on the Lord Jesus Christ, you who believe And I don't know why we sat like a bunch of deadheads in church knowing God's done that for me. There all be some kind of joy. The reality that I was a wicked, rotten, dirty, lost sinner, headed to hell and deserving it. But the blood of Jesus Christ put it away. Christ took my place And the thunderings of the wrath of God are now assuaged because Christ died for my sin. Listen, dear friend, what a joy it is to belong to Him. And that brings me to my last point. Notice it in verse 27. Where is boasting then? Where's it at? What are we bragging about? What are we boasting in? It's excluded, removed, annihilated. By what law? Of works, nay, but by the law of faith. Therefore, we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. In other words, my friend, you show me somebody who's rejoicing in Jesus, and I'll show you somebody who's saved by Jesus. Show me somebody who values what Christ did. Somebody say, you know, it's not a big deal. He died for my sin. You've never been saved. You don't understand a thing what it says. If there's not a measure of rejoicing in your heart That he would go on a hill. When you sing on a hill far away stood an old rugged cross, the emblem of suffering and shame. Does there not something in you move with gratitude and say, Lord, thank you for going there? Thank you for doing that. I don't deserve it, but I sure appreciate it. And I may not understand everything that happened there, but I'm sure grateful that you did I'm grateful you made a way. Boy, when I hear about Jesus making a way, that he made a way for me, there's something stirs in me and recognizes, oh, it was for me. For me The wonder of wonders is that he would do this for me and do that for you. The rejoicing of the saved is such that it gives all glory to God. Too many of our testimonies have big I's and little J's, and it needs big J's and little I 's. Too much of it is, well, I, I, I, I. I don't care what you did. I want to hear what he did. It's what's important is what he did. Well, you might have got emotional, praise the Lord. Or you might have mourned over your sin deeply. Praise God. That's the work of the Holy Ghost. You may have been so so uh troubled and and and under conviction and and and and or or or it may not have been quite that way. It may have been more of what you might deem just a normal transaction, if you will, a matter of putting faith in Jesus Christ. But when you put your faith in Jesus Christ, he did something for you that nobody else could do. Beloved, what's important is not what you do, it's what he's already done. What's important this morning is not that you go through all the loops and hoops and steps of man, but that you come to God as a sinner and such Jesus Christ to be your Savior. People say, well, I went to an altar. Well, Lord bless you. I've seen people get saved in a chair, a hospital bed, side of the road in a car, in a ditch. And a thousand other places. Places do not save you. The person of Jesus Christ does. I'm not saved because I'm the only one. In a few minutes we're going to have the invitation. And if you're not saved, I'm going to ask you to trust Christ. I'm going to challenge you this morning to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, to listen to the Spirit of God, to look to Him. Man, I'm so burdened over souls right now. I'm here to tell you, if God lets me live, it is in my heart to preach the gospel clear and plain and clear and plain, and people say, Well, I don't want to hear it. Well then Just plug years, is all I can tell you. Because I've got to preach the gospel. Woe is me if I preach not the gospel. People need to be saved, and there might be people sitting here that are not saved. You're trusting the church, you're trusting baptism, you're trusting a man's word. I met a man, and I I think I know what he meant by this, but he said to me, he said, Pastor Dickerson, save me. I love Pastor Dixon. I respect him greatly. But I'm gonna tell you something. If he is standing right here, he'd tell you, Pastor Dixon never saved nobody. He'd be the first to tell you that. And he'd tell you a little bit stronger than I could tell you. Because man don't save. It's not who you pray with, it's whom you pray to. Makes the difference. Beloved, listen, we're not saved by man, we're saved by the Lord. And in a few moments, I'm going to ask you to believe on the Lord Jesus. You say, preacher, do I need to come and kneel? I would urge you to, but you don't have to. You can be saved sitting right where you are. You can be saved sitting right in the pew. They say in Spurgeon's old tabernacle there wasn't a pew where somebody wasn't converted. Wasn't a seat What do you see? 5,000, 6,000? Wasn't a place where somebody hadn't just said, Lord save me. I want this spot to be the spot. Lord save me I'm crying out to you from this place. It's a matter of where you cry out to the Lord. You might be listening to the radio, the broadcast, and listen, you might be at home, driving down the road, hospital, somewhere, uh sitting in a uh a lounge chair. Let me say to this Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. God will save you right there. The rejoicing of the saved is in the Lord Jesus Christ. Philippians 3:3 says, we are the circumcision. And when you read that in these uh letters, Paul's saying we're saved. Because they believe that saved them. Paul said, No, that's not salvation. Here's where salvation is. Who are the saved? Worship God in the Spirit, rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh. Hear me, some of you need to check in your church anity for real Christianity. Some of you need to get rid of your profession and just take hold of the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And oh, how I rejoicing is in, in, see that? In Christ Jesus. Oh, beloved, listen, there is a way to be justified. A wicked, vile, dirty, lost sinner stained by a filth unimaginable. Can all of a sudden be made righteous in the Lord Jesus Christ? Can have their sins forgiven Can hear this declaration made, justified freely by his grace Oh dear friend. I don't know what it is you're counting on to get to heaven. If it's not Jesus, you're not going. But if it is, people struggle with their salvation, I ask them this question, what are you trusting now? A lot of times we want to go back and say, well, I did, I think, I know. Hold on a minute. What about right now? What are you trusting now? You trust in him? I still remember that old preacher, so I call it rudely, but it was what I needed , kneeling in frustration beside me and saying, Well, just go to hell then, trust in Jesus And got up and walked off. Well, I wonder who eats your corn flakes this morning. And then I got to thinking about, I remember going home, riding home, I was thinking, go to hell trust in Jesus. And I got so mad I thought I need to go tell him you can't go to hell trusting Jesus. And it's like the Lord smacked me on the head and said, duh. And you talk about sweet peace coming in my heart. Can't go to hell trusting him. Believe on the Lord Jesus. If you're not saved, believe on him this morning. And dear brother, sister. Let the cross of Jesus Christ exclude all boasting in your heart and cause you to give all glory to God. You're not going to heaven because of who you are. You're going to heaven because of what He did. And let's live our lives for him because we are not our own. We have been bought with a price, and we're to glorify God in our body and in our spirit because they're his. There he is. Would you stand with me please? Brother Dow, come with our hymn. Dear friend, with our heads bowed and our eyes closed, can I