The line of that song is His mercy has made me His Own. Isn't that powerful? Thank the Lord for that. I want you to open your Bible, please, to Luke chapter number two. Luke chapter number two. And I want to begin reading in verse number 41, please. Luke chapter number 2, verse number 41. I'd invite you to stand with me, please, as we read the Word of God. Luke chapter number two and verse number forty one, the Bible says, Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover. And when he was twelve years old they went up to Jerusalem after the custom of the feast. And when they had fulfilled the days, as they returned, the child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem. And Joseph and his mother knew not of it. But they, supposing him to have been in the company, went a day's journey. And they sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance. And when they found him not, they turned back again to Jerusalem, seeking him. And it came to pass that after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them and asking them questions. And all that heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers. And when they saw him they were amazed. And his mother said unto him, Son, Why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father, and I have sought thee sorrowing. And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? Wished ye not that I must be about my father's business? And they understood not the saying which he spake unto them. And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was subject unto them. But his mother kept all these sayings in her heart. And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature and in favor with God and man. It's an interesting account that we just read, and I'm going to preach a message of application out of an actual experience that took place in the life of our Lord. I want to look this morning, the Lord helping me at keeping Christ in your family. Keeping Christ in your family. Heavenly Father, we bow in Jesus' name, and we're thankful for the privilege that we have to gather here. We thank you, Lord, for the measure of health and strength, and thank you, God, for your kindness. Lord, I do thank you that your mercy has made me your own. Lord, we have nothing to boast in today except our precious Savior. And Lord, I pray that you would fix our eyes afresh on thee. You know the need of every heart. I trust you'll meet it. Lord, I pray that In this meeting, you'll just simply hide me, Lord, behind the cross. Help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus and have your way. And Lord, accomplish your will. And we'll thank you for what you do, for we ask it in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. You know it's quite interesting that from the age of two until our Lord was about thirty years old, There's absolutely nothing recorded of his life. The Bible is completely silent on this matter. The Bible has absolutely nothing. We're not given insight. We're not given glimpses. We're not told anything save what we're told right here when the Lord Jesus was twelve years old. And I believe it's something to be noteworthy to understand that what happened here has a spiritual lesson for us to learn. I understand this account really took place. They literally left our Lord behind as they went on their journey. But I want to make an application here. Ask the Lord to speak to us in our hearts. Because quite frankly, the greatest need in this hour is for the families of this country to put the Lord back in his rightful place. We've left the Lord out of our families You think about again that what is being taught here, and of course they left the actual presence of the Lord. We might say they lost his presence, but As I studied this passage, I realized they didn't lose anything. They left him. And I'm grateful that I can't lose my salvation. I can't lose the Lord. But I sure can leave his presence and influence in my life in a lower place than where it should be I can literally leave the Lord out of my life. And that's happening all across this country this morning. The Lord is being left out of many lives. A little fellow was crying on the way home from church, and his mother said to him, What's wrong with you? Why are you crying? Well that morning his family had dedicated the newest baby, the little baby brother. They had dedicated him uh to the Lord. And the pastor had said, I want you to raise these children in a Christian home. And that little boy said, I don't want to leave this home. I want to stay with you guys. You'll get it in a minute. Just think. The reality is that sometimes our homes are not near as Christian as they ought to be. Friend, you can't afford to leave him out of your home. Of all the places we need the Lord. We need him in our families. May I remind you of what our Bible teaches us in Genesis chapter number two, that the very first institution God created wasn't a government. He didn't organize government there in the Garden of Eden. He didn't even organize a church. He didn't organize the church. But in the Garden of Eden, he organized the family. He instituted a family. The Bible tells us that he created a man named Adam, and then from his side, from his rib, he created a lady named Eve. And the Bible says he put the two together and he said, well, let's just read it. There's no use in me just trying to stutter through it. Let's read it. Genesis chapter number two. Listen what the Lord said about family. Verse number twenty-four. The Bible says, Therefore, shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife. And they shall be one flesh. That's the family. That's the family God created. God didn't create, listen, when God created the family, he did not create something that was perpetually joined together. He said, leave your father, mother, cleave to that wife. That's one flesh. That's that family. God's unit of family, God's order of the family. And it's quite important we find here that we get a glimpse in the life of our Lord's family. I think it's interesting what we see here in this family. No family is complete without the Lord. And what we're trying to do today is have families without the Lord. We're trying to build families without Christ. Oh, we're making good money. We're living in good houses. We're driving fine cars. We've got good jobs, but we don't have the Lord. My friend, all of that is vain. None of that matters if the Lord's not in that family. If the Lord's not present in that home, my friend, listen, you can have a house and it be void of anything close to being a home. You can have all the finer things of life and enjoy life to the full. But if the Lord's not present, you're missing what God intended for the family to be. God wants our families to be a place where He is present and preeminent. Let me ask you about your family. Notice what the Bible says here, and I want to just make application and give you a few brief thoughts. I want you to notice, number one, that this family, this family, the Lord's family , Initially made him the priority. They made the Lord the priority. You say, how do you know that? Look what it says in verse 41. His parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover. Every year. Every year they made the trip. You say, how long was the trip? All I know is that it was several days. According to what we learn in this passage here, that it took them several days to get there and several days to get back. This wasn't something that they did just on a mere whim. They didn't jump in the car and drive ten minutes down the road and go to the temple. Often this journey required a great deal of sacrifice on their part. They would have to uh make plans to make that kind of journey. You didn't have a McDonald's You had to take your food or prepare your food or find or somehow or another be ready with your food. And so they had to make preparations, they had to make sacrifice. It was a real chore to make this trip. But you notice the Spirit of God said they did it every year. They did it every year. I'm sure there were years that it was inconvenient I'm sure there were years it required more sacrifice than others. I'm sure there were years that it cost them a little bit more just to make the trip. You say, what are you getting at, preacher? Here's what I'm getting at. You and I must make the Lord the priority in our families once more. We've got to make him a priority. Here they were, just faithful, going to the temple every year. Every year they went up to the Passover, they were faithful. Now listen, oftentimes I think today we have become satisfied with being flashy instead of being faithful. We have been become content with making a scene rather than just simply being steady Be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. Do you know what God values? God values faithfulness. And the Lord wants us to be faithful. Is He the priority in your home? I'll be quite honest with you, it makes me sad to see so many families where the Lord's not even on the radar, let alone a priority. He doesn't fit in the grand scheme of things. Well, we've got ball and we've got this and we've got that and we wanna we want to do this and we want to run here And look, I I'm not condemning all of that, but I am condemning it when it gets in the place where the Lord ought to be. I'm saying, my friend, that he must be a priority. There's going to come a time That that ball and that ball game is not going to be any comfort to your heart. There's going to come a time when that job's not going to do you one bit of good There's going to come a time when all those things that you put so much value in is going to mean nothing. But I'll tell you, you're going to need the Lord. You're going to need his presence and you're going to need his power and you're going to need him to come near. I'm talking about making him a priority. We need to make the Lord a priority. By the way, we can fuss and carry on about our children, but oftentimes our children don't make the Lord a priority because we don't make him a priority. You can tell your children what to do, but showing them goes a lot further, has a greater impact. I know many of you today are not raising your children actively. That part of your job's done. But they're still watching you. And they're still looking to you. They're still trusting that you're going to do what's right, or they're still watching to see if you will do what's right. And I hope and pray that there'll be some children and then following them some grandchildren that'll be able to look at you and look at me and say, hey, they still make the Lord a priority in their lives. We're living in a day where parents are doing foolish things for their children. There's a whole list of them, but the one I'm most concerned about is that they're turning their back on God for the sake of their children. They want peace in the home rather than wanting to please the Lord. Oh, my friend, there comes a place where we must decide who we will serve and to whom we belong. Put him first, make him the priority. Dear friend of mine had family that would always come on the Lord's Day. They wouldn't visit any other day of the week. And I'll never forget one Sunday he got up to give testimony and he said, you know, it might have been awful easy for me to stay home, but he said, I'll tell you what I did. I told him. He said, I told him there's sandwiches, there's stuff to make sandwiches in the fridge and in the cupboard. He said, go ahead and feed yourselves. We're going to church. We'll be back after a while That went over about like I figured it would. Because I'm going to tell you something, church, the reality is we're saying a lot more by our actions than our preaching. Lord, you're not near as important to me. Not near as important to me as my family. Listen, if you've got family you trust, leave them at the house if they don't want to come to the house of God. And if they don't want to come to the house of God and you don't trust them, tell them you'll be back. Open the door when you get home. Amen I'm saying we got to make him a priority. Folks, we live easy. And I don't think easy's been any good for us. It's easy for you to get in a car. It's easy for us to drive here in pretty much comfort. There's so much ease around us. We're so almost intoxicated with comfort. The reality is, my friend, my God is still worthy of being a priority in my life, even if it costs me something to do it. Make him a priority. One of the curses of COVID is people got comfortable being in the house of God, or got comfortable being out of the house of God and substituting it with a video screen. I'm thankful for those technologies and I'm thankful for those opportunities, but there's no substitute for being with God's people. There's no substitute for being in the house of God and opening our Bible and hearing the word of God and listening to the Spirit of God and singing the hymns of God and worshiping the Lord Jesus, the very Son of God. And exalting him who's altogether lovely. There's nothing to take place of that. Listen, that dog sitting on the couch next to you ain't going to encourage you like that brother or sister can. You might love him, but he ain't saved. If you got a cat, he's demon possessed, so you're in bad shape. Amen Make him the priority. Make him the priority Here's a family. And you know what you see them doing? They're making the Lord the priority. They're going up to the temple every year. They're making that journey every year. They're making him a priority as they raise the Lord Jesus. Number two, I believe it's important that we see something about this family and their failure. We need to realize that we've got to keep our eyes on Jesus. Look what happened in verse 43. And when they had fulfilled the days as they returned, the child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem. And Joseph and his mother knew not of it. Can I stop there and ask a question? How did they leave him behind? Because somebody quit watching him Somebody took their eyes off of him. Somebody said, He's around here somewhere. When we were down in Georgia here a month or so ago, there's a family in that church that have foster children. They have a very large number of foster children that they take care of. And we were locking up the church and getting ready to head back to our homes, and this little boy came running out of the darkness. And said, uh, where 's so-and-so? And my nephew, Pastor Browning, turned and he said, What are you still doing here? He said, I was playing out back and he said, where's and he named the people and he said they left 30 minutes ago. He said, I guess they left you. And the little fellow looked so so downcast he said, They left me. He had a sharp little wit about him. He was humorous. He said, imagine that. I'm an orphan, and even my foster parents leave me behind. And then he laughed and he skipped off into the dark. And so the pastor called the family and said, Hey, what do you know where so-and-so is named the little boy? And they said uh he called the father, and the father said, Yes, with with his mother. He said, I don't think so, but I'll call the mother. So he called the mother and said, You know where so-and-so is? She said, Yeah, he's with the father. He said, I got news for both of you. He's with neither. He's standing here at the at the church house, and somebody needs to come get him. You know why they left him? Because they got their eyes they kept their eyes off of him. They weren't watching him I mean they just went about their way and figured they had uh everybody that needed to be there and they just went on. Uh Junior, I don't know if you remember. I think you're back there. I can't see. It looks like you. Yep, you're back there. 2016 we went to Washington, DC. And I think we went to the Museum of the Bible on a trip. We went to Arlington. And so we went to McDonald's to have our lunch, and we started back down the street, get on the train to head home. And I'm not really thinking or looking around. My wife suddenly says, Where's Junior? I don't know. I didn't know I was supposed to be watching him. We got to looking around. We're a couple three blocks. No junior. We go back to McDonald's, and lo and behold, we retrace our steps and we find Junior. Now I'm thankful that it was him we lost because he's of the personality he's just taking in the sights. He didn't care if we left him or come back after him or whatever. He's just looking around and taking it all in But but we left him because somebody wasn't watching him. Amen. I'm I'm almost a bit Uh OCD about it now. If I drive on a trip, I'll do it three or four times. I'm looking in the mirror counting them. Mm-mm-mm-mm-mm-mm I don't want to get twenty miles down the road and say, oops, we left another one. Have to go back. It may seem s silly, but it's a spiritual truth. You lose you lose sight of the Lord because you don't watch him. You get your eyes off of him The Bible says my focus is to be on the Lord. Hebrews 12, you know in verse number one it tells us we're to lay aside the sin and the weight. that doth easily beset us were to run with patience, the race is set before us. And in verse number two it says, looking unto Jesus. That's how I've got to run my race looking under Jesus. It listen, if you don't, if you start looking at people, and I'll tell you, this hurts more families than anything I know of, or at least the ones I know about. We start looking at people we go to church with and we get disappointed in them and we get disillusioned by them, and the next thing you know, we're dereb because of them. Because we're looking at people We gotta stop looking at people. We gotta stop looking at problems. How many of you know problems are just par for the course? There's no such thing as no problems But we get to looking at those problems, and sometimes we get to looking at the pain that comes into our lives, things that cause us pain. And when that gets bigger than the Lord, we'll get off track We've got to keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. Can I say to you this morning, He's altogether lovely? There's absolutely no fault in him. You'll not find anything to criticize or anything to condemn in our precious Lord. Everything about him is beautiful and holy and perfect and righteous. And true and lovely. Look, you can't find one fault in him. Keep your eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. We've got to keep our eyes on him. You'll leave him. You'll walk off from him if you don't keep your eyes on the Lord. I think sometimes we get too introspective. We're looking at ourselves too much. We're looking at what we are not and what perhaps we are, and we get all absorbed in all the things that That may be the areas we fail, or even maybe the areas we succeed. But whatever it is, listen, there is nothing that can take the place of the Lord Jesus in your life. Not only make him a priority, but keep your eyes on him as well. Number three, I want you to notice what they did. Verse forty-five says, and when they found him not, they turned back again to Jerusalem seeking him. I might be speaking to someone you've walked away from the Lord. You might be listening to this message and You would have to say, preacher, perhaps I'm that person who's left the Lord behind. Can I remind you that you need to go back to where you left him to find him? You got to go back where you left him to find him. You see, it may be in that dust-covered Bible that you left the Lord. It may be when you stop spending time with the Lord in sweet fellowship and prayer. It may be that place uh of just simply being in God's house under the preaching of God's word. That took a lower place in your life. You need to go back to where you left him if you're ever going to find him again. It may be in that offense. It may be in that place where perhaps you got your feelings hurt. And it may be that you'll find him when you go back and forgive. Look what it says in verse 48. And when they saw him, they were amazed. And his mother said unto him, Son, Why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing. You know what? They were broken up about it. And it bothered them so much that they sought him sorrowing. Folks, can I say to you, it may be about time for the church to lay her shouting aside for a moment and take up some sighing? It may be time to start shedding some tears once more and seek the Lord sorrowing. We made our lives so much about entertainment. You notice you can't even pump gas without a television playing in the background. It's not bad enough they got music blaring over the speakers, but now they got a television screen. I was over here at a gas station some time ago and that thing came over, it scared me to death. I wasn't expecting that, and it was so loud, it just got my attention. And I thought, why do we have to make everything fun? And we've made the house of God a place of amusement. Rather than a place where God Almighty does his work in people's hearts. We've entertained the masses and the multitudes and we We say, come to our church, you'll have a big time. Somebody said, I don't like to go to your church because it's not fun. I said, It's not supposed to be. That's not its design. Let me say something. We need to be careful. I know we we want to reach our children. We want to minister them on the level that we can, but we also need to teach our children that church isn't all about having fun. Church is about meeting God. Church is about pleasing the Lord. And we've raised them up, and there's a whole lot of people that look we just can't we can't get anything from God because we're too our our level of of Of commitment is so shallow that we have gotten to the place that if it's not fun, we're not interested. What about seeking Him sorrowing? What about seeking Him with a broken heart? What about recognizing that a tear touches the heart of God? I'm glad that I have a heritage I can look back on, and I literally remember sometimes those log altars that we had across the front of our church having to be mopped. After a service. So many people crying. So many people broken. What were they broken about? I don't know. It might have been sin in their own lives, it might have been lost family members It might have been somebody who needed to get right with God. It might have been over the state of the co I don't know what they were broken over, but they were broken enough to shed so many tears that they'd flood that old altar with them Sought thee sorrowing. I want to say to you, my friend, that you'll find him right where you left him, but you'll not find him as fast as you left him. Have you noticed that they went a day's journey, but it took them three to find him? They went a day, they traveled a full day's journey, but it took three more days. Listen, you don't ever get near as close to God as quickly as you depart from him. Salt be sorrowing. A broken heart and a contrite spirit he does not despise. It still gets the eye of God. When a man gets broken and bothered over his sin, we get broken and bothered over our situation, and we say, Lord, we're so broken about it, we're weeping before you. Oh listen, my friend, go back, go back where you left him, and certainly you'll find him. When that prodigal son went home, listen, he didn't go to the neighbor's house because he knew his daddy wasn't there He didn't go down the street to the next community because that wasn't where his father lived. He went right back to the same place where he left him. And you know what? Thank God he found him looking for him, waiting on him, and ready to welcome him back. Can I say to you better, you just need to get back to where you left him. It may be you need to open your Bible again. Start waiting on God. It may be that you need to get on your knees and begin to pray and speak to God once more. It may be you just need to make up your mind, I'm going to be faithful and be in God's house where I ought to be. It may be that it it's it's something you need to get fixed between a brother or sister and say, hey, will you forgive me Let's make this thing right. It's not worth it to be out of fellowship with God, to be quarreling with you. I need to get right with God. Hey, I don't know what it is, but if you'll go back where you left him, you'll find him standing there Ready to forgive, ready to welcome you back, ready to say, hey, I'm glad you came home. Listen, I I love the picture drawn in that story of that prodigal. Because it sure draws a lot of times we put a lot of attention on that boy. And I'm glad he came home and I'm glad he got right. But it really is not about that boy. It's about that father. And that father who loved that boy enough to keep looking for him. And that father that loved that boy enough to forgive him. That father that that kissed him didn't scold him. He kissed him. fell on his and he just he just kept kissing him and embracing him and welcoming him home. You know what that is? That's a picture of the grace and mercy of God in heaven, who loves on his wayward children when they make their way back home. Oh, brother, sister, what a God we have. What a gracious Father we serve. You'll find him right where you left him. And number four, I'm talking about keeping Christ in your family. Folks, we've got to make Jesus a priority again in our families. You see, the whole structure of our society is built on the home. That home is a sacred institution made by God. And as goes the home, so goes everything that follows. Our church is a reflection of the homes represented. Our community is a reflection of the homes that it contains. Our country is nothing but a reflection of the homes that represent this great country. And listen, all of our problems go right back to the doorstep of our homes. I hear things sometimes and people say, my family would be a better family if we had this program in your church. Or my family would be stronger if we did this activity. Or if we, can I say to you, you know where you'll get your strength at? Go back to your family altar. Hey Dad, take your Bible and open it and start reading it and praying with your family again. Start praying and seeking God together as a family. Don't let the blame be put somewhere else. Recognize the fact that you and I have a responsibility to make our homes a place where the Lord's the priority Not only, again, let me review this, make him a priority, keep your eyes on Jesus. Don't let anything get you sidetracked. The American dream is a nightmare for the American people. I'm gonna tell you something, folks. We're killing ourselves for something that's gonna be cold comfort when it comes time to die. Families are neglected and homes are fractured, all because we got a goal You know what our goal ought to be? Our goal ought to be God. That's the goal. That's the goal. Folks, keep your eyes on the Lord Jesus. And right here in the house of God, you can get your eyes off of him just as quick as you can anywhere else. It's awful easy. Anything can take your eyes away from him, but keep your eyes on him. If you've left him, go back. Just go back. Go back. I don't care how far you've gone. Go back. If it takes a week, if it takes two weeks, if it takes a year, it don't matter. Go back. Just go back. You say if I go back, will he receive me? You've got a whole bunch of Bible says he will. You've got a whole bunch of truth in the Word of God that says, come on home. I'm reminded of the story of the little of the young man who ran away from home. This was during the Civil War days. He ran away from home and he uh dishonored his family and his upbringing and despised the teaching of the Word of God and lived a godless life. He got very sick and was near death. He wrote back and he said, I I know I don't deserve to be brought home. I I I really don't have any expectation of being welcomed home, but I'm gonna be on such and such train, and if you'll just hang a handkerchief. In the branch of the tree. They knew where this place was. They said, He said, I'll know I'm welcome home. If I don't see it, I'll go on my way. I won't bother you. And that fella boarded his train and started and he got so nervous as he came near that place, he said he couldn't even stand to look. He said to someone, he said, Would you look out the window? There's a tree. There's a large apple tree, I believe it was, out there. And he said, It's up near that curve. Would you tell me, do you see anything hanging in it? Do you see a handkerchief hanging in that tree? The reply was, no, I don't see a handkerchief. He said, I see. Looks like it snowed They've hung bed sheets and handkerchiefs and everything you can imagine. He said, Look, just look, and the young man looked, and when he looked out on that tree, ever I mean ever article they could get they hung in that tree. You know what they were saying? You're welcome here. You're welcome here. You're forgiven here. What you've done don't matter, but what we want to do is welcome you home. I've got news for you, my friend. There's a God in heaven who's still welcoming his people home Go back where you left him. He'll welcome you with open arms. That hill called Calvary, where the blood of Jesus was shed, made a way for you to get back to God. Listen, the mercy that was demonstrated when Christ died for our sins opened a fountain of cleansing for the vilest of sinners. And my friend, when he plunges you neath that flood, you lose all of your guilty stains. Just come home. The last thing I see, we're gonna keep crossing our family. Because we've got to stay involved in the Father's business. Notice what he said. He said, verse 49 unto them, How is it that ye sought me? Wished ye not that I must be about my father's business? It's almost as if, and I know he's not, but it's almost as if the Lord's puzzled. W what are you so upset about? I'm doing my father's business. I'm I'm about my father's business. John 18, 37, the Bible says that the Lord Jesus, to this end was I born, that I might manifest the truth. See, the Lord Jesus had a business. It was his father's business. And that business was to represent his father and make the truth known about his father. And may I remind you that your business and my business is to is to represent the Lord Jesus on this old earth? Dr. David Gibbs says it like this, it's my job to make him look good. Now hear me out. He is good He's always good. Everything about him is good. And I don't add to or take away, but my representation of him does. A lot of people don't know God, but they know God's people. And their thoughts of God are often formulated by their thoughts of God's people. And so it's my job and it's your job to make them look good. Now, Dr. Gibbs said he learned that from his grandfather. His grandfather uh dealt in cattle and they bought and sold cattle He started out with just a small little business and that thing flourished and next thing you know he was a very wealthy man and dealing in thousands and thousands of head of cattle. But he would go and buy them from various farmers around the country. And on several occasions, David said when he was a boy, his grandfather would come and say, now take this money to so-and-so. And he would say, but why? We already paid him. Well he said, I took these cattle to the sale and they brought a whole lot more than I expected, and I want to be fair, and so I'm going to pass on what I got to that farmer and and David said he didn't understand that. He said as a young ambitious boy he thought, you know what? Their loss is your gain. I mean they sold it, they made the agreement, i i i you know, their deal, so what? They lost out, big deal, you made the money, you're the smart one, let's go on And he said his grandfather would get mad and he would say, Son, remember this. We represent the Lord. And it's our job to make him look good. He said, what do you think they would think about me as a Christian if I'm out here and I'm taking advantage of making all this money? on their backs while they're struggling to survive. He said, never, son. He said the moment this business becomes about that is the moment we go out of business. That's what he said. David said more than once he'd go across town, knock on a door, an old farmer would come to the door, and he'd say, Here. He said, I gave it back grudgingly. But he said it burned in my mind that I'm here to make him look good. He had a dear mother. Who through a sickness lost her ability to walk. In fact, she was paralyzed from her chest down. And oh how she suffered. She came back to church after that ordeal, and the pastor there, for whatever reason, said to her, Mrs. Gibbs Uh we can't use you around here anymore. She had taught Sunday school, she had played the piano, they had picked up children, bring them to church, and he just very coldly turned her away. Brother Gibbs said he was a teenager when that happened, and he said he never wanted to hit somebody so bad in his life. He said, I wanted to lay that man out, preacher or no. He said, his mother said to him, Now, David, control yourself. And he said, She spoke with such harshness and hardness he knew he'd better pay attention. She couldn't move her arms, but she could get orders otherwise and get him beat. And she said, You, we're Christians. We're going to be like Christ. We're going to be gracious. Huh? You know what he saw? He saw somebody wanting to make the Lord look good. Making the Lord look good. Folks listen, the day and hour that we're living in, we need to understand we've got business to do on this earth, and it's not in dollars and cents. There's a responsibility laying on your shoulders as a child of God. You represent him out here in this community. Listen, everybody sitting here has preached something this week. Everybody here has preached a message. You've been preaching something to someone. Has it been making our Lord look good? The Lord Jesus said, I've got to be about my father's business. Folks, we've got to keep Christ in our families You've got to realize that we're just helping each other get to the house to finish well. I don't know if you follow the Olympics But in 1992, a young man named Derek Redman was running in the 400-meter. Halfway through, he popped his hamstring. And they tell me that he lay on the ground and just writhed in pain. I've never done that, but I imagine it's a mighty painful experience. The medical teams rushed to him and put a stretcher down and tried to pick him up, and he refused. He got almost violent about it and said, No, I'm going to finish the race. I've got to finish my race. And in the melee of the crowd, he could hear someone saying, Stop that man, stop that man. And pushing through the crowd was a great big man compared to Derek. And Derek thought perhaps it was another official coming to make him get off the track. But he heard a familiar voice. He said, That's my dad. Tim Redmond had been watching up in the stands and fought his way through the security guards and all the people that were trying to hold him back. And he got down to the side of his son and he said, Dad, I just want to finish well. Tim said, okay, son. And he picked him up. He put his arm over his father. His father put his arm over him, and they limped their way to the finish line. When they got to the finish line, Tim stood back and let Derek cross so that all the attention would be upon him. You see, Tim needed somebody to help him to finish well. Hey Dad, can I remind you those kids need you to finish. They need you to help them finish well. It may be you need to go to them in the time of their brokenness and say, let me pick you up. Listen, they need somebody. And and hey Dad, it may be you tomorrow that needs somebody to come along and help you. We all need help to finish this thing well. And I'll tell you where our help comes from ultimately, our help comes from the Lord. We need the Lord Folks, you need Christ in your family. If you're here today not saved, you don't have Him. You don't have His presence. The Bible says this sad, sad truth. You're without God and without hope in this world. But Christ died for your sin. And he paved your sin debt in full. And he extends a gracious, benevolent offer to you. That whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And friend, he'll save you today. And you can leave this place. You came to this place godless and without hope. You can leave this place with God and with hope. If you'll but turn to Jesus. Dear brother and sister, perhaps you as a Christian have gotten your eyes off the Lord. You've left him behind like Mary and Joseph did. Go back where you left him. Get that thing settled. You need him more now than you've ever needed him before. And if any of us finish well. It will finish well because he helps us get across the finish line. You need him. I need him. May the Lord help us. Would you stand with me? If you need to come to this altar, you mind God. Brother Dow, you come ahead, please. Be ready