I want you to take your Bible this evening, please, and go with me to Luke chapter number 24. Luke chapter number 24. And I want to begin reading in verse number 13. Luke chapter number 24. And verse number 13. I'm going to invite you to stand with me if you would, please, once you find your place. Luke chapter number twenty-four and verse number thirteen. The Bible says, and behold Two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about three-score furlongs. And they talked together of all these things which had happened. And it came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were holding that they should not know him. And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another as ye walk and are sad? And one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering, said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days? And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty indeed and word before God and all the people. And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and have crucified him. But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel. And beside all this, today is the third day since these things were done. Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre. And when they found not his body, they came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels which said that he was alive. And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre and found it even so, as the women had said, but him they saw not. Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart, to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And they drew nigh unto the village whither they went, and he made as though he would have gone further. But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us, for it is toward evening and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them. And it came to pass as he sat at meat with them, he took bread and blessed it and broke and gave to them. And their eyes were open, and they knew him, and he vanished out of their sight. And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures? They rose up the same hour and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, saying, The Lord has risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. And they told what things were done in the way and how he was known of them in breaking of bread. I'm going to stop reading there. My text is going to come from verse number 32. And the Lord helping me this evening, I'd like to speak on this subject, keeping your heart burning. Keeping your heart burning. I'm not sure if it's just me or do I sound a little distorted. My voice a little distorted. Brother Jerry, let's go to this mic. And we'll just, I'll stay right here and be still. Heavenly Father, we bow before you in Jesus' name and love you and thank you and praise you. That we have this privilege to be able to be in your house. Lord, we thank you for your loving kindness and your tender mercies We thank you this evening that you've given us another opportunity to gather in this place and worship you. Lord, I'm grateful as I read through the Bible of these meetings with with the risen Christ. And Lord, we we think of that that first Sunday evening when the disciples were gathered together and you came and walked and worked in their midst We're praying tonight, Lord, you'll do that again. Lord, as we honor the resurrection of your Son and our Savior, would you walk among us as your people? And Lord, help us as only you can. And Father, what you do, we'll be careful to give you all the glory and the honor and the praise. For it is in Jesus' strong name we pray. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. This is one of my favorite encounters of the resurrected Lord. As he's making his way, or they're making their way, to down the road to Emmaus. Our Lord makes Himself known in their lives and He does something in their heart that we all need the Lord to do. And that is, he made their hearts burn within them. You say, preacher, what does that mean to have a burning heart? We're not talking about the kind that Rolades or Tums will take care of. But we're talking about that burning in the heart of love and devotion for the Lord Jesus Himself. These two as they walked along, the Bible says they were walking and talking and they were sad. When you read down through this, you realize that here are some individuals that, one, are disappointed. Two, they're living in unbelief, and they are having a difficult time trying to figure out just exactly everything that is happening and going on in their lives. And there's not one of us sitting here this evening that cannot say we've all been there. We've been in those times where we've been disappointed. We've been in those times where perhaps unbelief has taken hold Or we've been in those places where it's just difficult to grasp, Lord, what's going on and what are you doing? But in the middle of that, the Lord Jesus paid them a visit. And that his working in their hearts made their hearts begin to burn. In fact, they're so excited about what happens. That once their uh eyes are opened and they realize that they are with the Lord and talking to the Lord and He disappears The Bible says that they get up immediately and go right back to Jerusalem. Now I don't know what they were going down to Emmaus for. But whatever it was took back seat to the fact that they had met the risen Christ. And they said, we've got to go tell the others that the Lord is alive. And then if you'll go on and read the chapter, which I recommend, starting in verse number thirty-six. That's the first meeting here on the resurrection Sunday, and they get in that upper room, and suddenly the Lord's there. And uh he's he's meeting with them, and you read the account as he reveals himself unto his disciples. But I want you to notice this burning heart. You know, General Booth used to say that the tendency of the fire is to go out. He's talking about that fire of love and devotion for the Lord. Anybody here that's been saved more than five minutes Knows that if you don't maintain that fire, it will go out. It doesn't mean that you lose your salvation. It doesn't mean that you need to get born again But it does mean that you get cold and indifferent on the Lord. It's very easy for any one of us to let the fire go out. In fact, if you don't tend to the fire, it will go out. A fire don't burn by itself. Anyone you heat with woods, you know what I'm talking about? You've got to feed the fire And if you don't take care of the fire, it's not going to naturally burn on its own. You've got to do something to keep it going. So we see here there's the need to tend to the fire. I believe it was A. W. Tozer, this was his favorite passage in the New Testament, and he said he wanted to belong to the fellowship of burning hearts. I don't know about you, but I want to belong to the fellowship of the burning hearts. I want my heart to burn. I don't want it to smolder. Or just mere uh just just sit and and and sort of simmer. I want my heart to burn. And burn in love for the Lord Jesus. Friend, that's exactly what the Lord wants us to do. In Revelation chapter 3, we read about a church that's neither hot nor cold. It's sort of simmering somewhere in the middle. And the Lord said, I would that thou wert are were art either cold or hot. He said, I would rather you be cold and and the fire just gone out or or hot, just burning hot, but this lukewarm stuff he said makes me sick So we need to ask ourselves this evening: do I have a burning heart? And how do I keep my heart burning? After you're saved a while, there's an excitement that comes with newfound faith. When we get born again, isn't it a thrilling thing to get I mean, when you got saved, you remember when you first got saved by God's grace Think back to where you were and what God did in your heart. And man, that was an exciting time. Exciting to be a Christian and to be saved and all the things that you were learning and discovering as God was working in your heart. But the real challenge comes after being saved a while when the excitement, if you'll let me say it like that, wears off. And there's there's a day-to-day growth, there's a day-to-day walk. And it doesn't have the it doesn't have that newness to it that it once had. It's even more critical then that you know how to keep the fire burning in your heart. I'm glad that the Bible records for me very clearly what it took to get the fire burning in the heart of these two people. I want you to notice several things and mark them down if you would please. You may be sitting here saying, Preacher, my fire's doing good. And if that's the case, I say, praise the Lord with you. I pray that's the case. But you may be sitting here saying, preacher, my my fire is about out. And it needs stoke. It needs stirring. The fire in my heart needs Needs some renewing and refreshing. And so I would urge you to mark these things down. Somewhere in your Christian life, you're going to need to tend to the fire. I want you to notice number one their conversation. And this is critical. You notice it says here that in verse number 14 that they talked. Together of all these things which had happened. I just noted how many different words that were used for conversation here. In verse 14, the word talked In verse 15, the word commune. Do you see that? It came to pass while they communed together. And then in the same verse, the next two words, and reasoned. And then the Bible goes on to tell us in verse number 17, and he said unto them, What manner of communications are these? See, there's an emphasis on their on their speech, their talking, and they're having a conversation. Now they don't know that they're talking to the Lord. But they're talking to each other. And I want you to notice something here that the beginning of their conversation had brought them to a place where they were sad. You and I have to guard our speech because our speech will often affect our spirituality. There's a lot of things you can talk about that'll put the fire out. There are things that you can discuss that will that will pour cold water on that fire burning in your heart. Listen, friend, the kind of conversation that we need to keep going is the kind of conversation when Jesus stepped in, you'll notice here, he turned that thing around. They're talking about one thing. They're talking about Jesus and who he said he was, and they're talking about his death and his demise, and then they're talking about the fact that that the tomb is empty and they don't believe that he's alive, but they're saying that's the word on the street and there's sadness in their heart, and then Jesus steps in and he turns the whole conversation around Do you know it's critical that we as the people of God center our conversations around the person and work of the Lord Jesus Himself? That's how you keep the fire going. In Hebrews chapter 10, verse 24, we always quote verse 25, and forsake not the assembling of ourselves together. as the manner of some is, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. But have you ever gone back and read the verse before? And verse twenty four says, And let us consider one another to provoke one another unto love and good works. Do you know why we assemble? And one of the primary reasons that we assemble as the people of God is to stir each other up. That's what that word provoke means. Can I just put it in plain and simple language, to ag them on? To encourage, I mean, to to to s to solicit some sort of response? We're to provoke unto love and good works. You know what he's telling me here? And I believe it's very critical that as we have conversations one with another We it i if it's centered around the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ, we can help each other's fire keep burning. You ever been around somebody that poured cold water on everything you spoke of? Every conversation? I remember being excited about the call to preach. And when God first called me to preach, I was thrilled in my heart that that God would allow me to do that. And and there was an enthusiasm there, perhaps a youthful enthusiasm and a uh maybe a zealous enthusiasm and maybe an unintelligent enthusiasm to some degree. But it was a a genuine excitement And I remember some older Christians pulled me aside. I'll never forget the conversation we had. Their conversation went something along the lines of this. Now when you get to know the Bible better, all that enthusiasm will leave. And when you when you really grow up and become a mature Christian, you'll be just like us. And I thought I'd rather drink pickle juice. And I don't like the juice nor the pickle than to be like them. Just being honest. Had no joy. They had no joy. As long as I could remember there was no joy. They sort of reminded me of buzzards sitting on. They were Baptist buzzards that just kind of sit around picking the dead. Well who uh who wants that? The reality is that our conversation has power. Do you realize that your words that you speak one to another has the ability to stir a brother or sister to love the Lord Jesus more. That you can have a conversation one with another that's fixed on the person and work of but by the way, that's what fuels the fire. I'm not talking about just mere cheerleading or or the the the emotional enthusiasm part. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about really putting wood on the fire And that is the person and work of Jesus Christ. Every born-again person has a deep hunger in their heart to know more about Jesus Christ. And you've got a burn , it's like a burning in there that says, I want to know him more. Choir opens is opening this month with that song, Let's Talk About Jesus. I want to know him more and more. And listen, the reality is is that the more we know about him, the more we love him The more you learn about him , the more you want to know about him. There's a feeding of the fire that needs to take place there in our conversation. Have you ever noticed, go back to the Old Testament book of Malachi. And I want you to mark a verse. Maybe, perhaps you've never read this verse or maybe looked over it, but in Malachi chapter 3. Drop down to verse number sixteen with me, please. Malachi chapter 3 and verse number 16 says, Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another. And the Lord hearkened and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord and that thought upon his name. You ever note that? You know what the Lord said? When you talk about me, I'm listening. And not only am I listening, but I'm recording. I'm recording what's being said. Those individuals that feared the Lord, I love this fact they spake often one to another. My friend, listen, we're living in a day where we don't need to be in God's house less. We need to be in here more. We don't need to be in around God's people less we need to be around God's people more It you know it concerns me as a pastor when I see God's people treat the house of God like it's optional As if it's some sort of luxury privilege that we have. Brother and sister, it's more than a luxury privilege. It's an absolute necessity. And if the fire is going to burn in your heart, you've got to get around some people that have a conversation that is not about the filth and degradation of this world But is about the beauty and the glory and all the majesty of the Lord Jesus who's altogether lovely. That's why we specifically sing songs we do that turn our eyes upon Him. That's why we preach the Word of God because it's what points me to Jesus And we have a ministry among one another to to stoke the fire, to stir it up. There are Christians. I appreciate deeply that Always challenge me to be better a better Christian, to love the Lord more. That's the kind of people that you want to rub shoulders with. That's the individuals that you want to be around. Oh, there the the the the the extinguishers of the fire are a dime a dozen. But those that can stir that fire, my friend, are are sometimes sadly few and far between. But God multiply their numbers. So they had a conversation. And in that conversation, you see the Lord Jesus turning it towards himself. As fulfillment of Scripture and their whole hearts, they said after it was all over, our hearts burned within us. When He talked with us We were having a conversation, and boy, something started going on inside. I started getting a burning in my heart. I started getting an excitement come back. Now remember they were sad. They started out this thing pretty down. They were depressed and their heads were hung low. And they're walking along and boy they're they're brokenhearted and they don't know what to expect by the by the time it's over, uh their fire's been lit. And now they got a fire burning in their heart. Oh, may God help us to have such conversations among ourselves that we can walk away and say, Boy, didn't our heart burn within us? Didn't our heart begin to be stirred inside of us as we talked and walked along the way? So there's a conversation, but notice number two. I want you to notice an expounding here. And the Bible makes it very clear, beginning in verse number 25, then he said unto them. O fools, and slow of heart to believe, all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Now here is something to behold. You think about it, the greatest teacher taking the greatest subject. And expounding. You say, what does that mean? That means to unfold or to explain or interpret. And so here the Lord Jesus is talking with these two individuals, and he takes the scriptures, and notice how much of it he used. Here's the content, all the scriptures. All the scriptures. He used the entire Old Testament. You imagine what that must have been like? You think just can you just let your imagination uh stir a little bit and think what it must have been? To hear him talk about Genesis 3. 15 and say, That's me. And to hear him talk about the lamb that was provided for the children of Israel to get out of Egypt and say, That's me. And to hear him talk about the lambs that were offered up in the temple and the blood that was shed and hear him say, that was me. And to hear him walk through the Psalms and speak of the majesty and the glory of God and say, that was me. And on every page of the Old Testament to say, and here I am, and here I am, and here I am. Well how could your heart not burn? If you loved the Lord, my friend, that'd make any old look, that'd make a dead Presbyterians shout and praise the Lord. I'm telling you that would make listen, that'd make an old crowbar even stir a little with some life. He expounded the scripture. He took the word of God and he began to expose himself to them. May I say to you that God still wants to do this? He still wants to do this. You know, the Bible tells me that these things are spiritually discerned. That means that I've got to read my Bible like no other book. I don't get help intellectually only from the Scripture. And here's our problem sometimes. We go to the Bible with an intellect and we have a disengaged heart. We want our head to swell, not our heart to move. We want to get information. We're not interested much in transformation. But my Bible has not been given to me to make me smarter. It's been given to me to make me holier. My Bible is not given to me to simply win arguments. It's been given to me so I can walk like Jesus My Bible's been given to me so that the Lord can do the wonderful work of expounding himself or revealing himself to me. My friend, listen, a lot of times, how many of you know you can read your Bible and not read your Bible? You ever do that? You ever read your Bible and not read your Bible? You say, What are you talking about? You and I have read our chapters and yet not met Jesus. You can do your devotions and never encounter deity. I mean you can walk you can do you can do your routine, you can do your walk, I mean you can go through your your system, whatever it is you do. And I'm not decrying again, I'm not saying that's terrible I think if you don't have some sort of routine, you you you're you're subject to real failure in your Christian walk. You've got to have some sort of order. I believe God's a God of order. And so you've got to have a pattern and a plan. But my friend, if it don't take you to a person, you've missed the purpose of it all. The pattern and the plan is to set you in motion so that you can encounter the Lord. That's why hurry is death to devotion. The rush, the rush will cripple your spiritual reality I mean that spirit, and it's the spirit of this age. Every one of us are subject to it. We live in a world that is in a hurry, and I don't even know what we're in a hurry about. I mean, we're in a hurry to get going, to get somewhere. We don't know quite where we're going, but we're sure in a hurry to get there. And the faster we go, the more ignorant we get. Do you notice that? Shallow. If you don't believe that, pick up a book that's a couple of hundred years old and read it. And if you want a real challenge, go back a couple of hundred more. And you begin to read that, and I'll tell you, it takes some real digesting to get through. And you think, how in the world did people think that way? Where's the depth of that thought? I'll tell you why. They took time. They took time. Now, folks, it's a matter of you got to fight. This is a fight. You and I got to struggle and do whatever we got to do to get this time to get with the Lord until he expounds the scriptures to us. See, if your devotions and your time with the Lord is just three chapters, three prayer requests, thirty minutes, and out the door, you're not you don't know what I'm talking about. And I'm not talking about mystical things, but I'm talking about a biblical thing. The Lord Himself took the time and said, I want to show you something. I'm going to give you something. It's going to point you to me. It's going to make you love me more. It's going to make you fall at my feet in worship. It's going to make you adore him. And I want to show you. Listen, that's what the Lord wants to do when you open his precious word. He wants to take this book and show himself so that you walk away saying, oh, what a savior is Jesus my Lord That's the whole purpose of meeting with God. Your heart will not burn, brother, sister, if you don't get to where you can have a meeting with Him. You'll not make it very far. The fire will go out. The icicles will form. And listen, the calluses will be developed, and suddenly your heart will be hard and cold and indifferent. You'll be like the psalmist who in Psalm 73 said he was in almost all evil in the congregation of the righteous. Here was a man that was still in the congregation, but his heart was not committed. He was a man that was still going through the outward motion without an inward working of God in his heart. Dear brother and sister, the Lord must show himself to us. He takes the and by the way, I he he he doesn't he doesn't do this i in a in a mystical way. I'm not talking about seeking a vision. I'm not talking about seeking some uh out-of-the-body experience. Listen, the devil's a master at deception. And he uses everything imaginable. You heard about the fella one day that said, God called him to preach, and someone wisely said, Well, how do you know? He said, Well, I looked up into the sky and I saw the clouds form the letter P, and I believe God told me to go preach. He said, Well, sir, I've listened to you, and I think God told you to go plow. I'm saying the devil can deceive you. We don't put stock and and and even Peter would tell us that though uh we are an angel from heaven. Think about that. He's saying if a voice from heaven were were to speak, he said, We've got a more sure word of prophecy In the precious word of God. We've got something more reliable and dependable. You say, I want the Lord to meet with me. Brother, sister, open your Bible and stay there Until God comes and shows you Himself from its blessed pages. He'll do that. Jesus said, search the scriptures. He said to a crowd of people that claimed to know it well, search them. Search them. You think you have eternal life? Search the scriptures. For they are they which testify of me. Can I say this? If you read your Bible and don't see the Lord Jesus in some way, you missed it. You missed it. A lot of times people say, Well, I read the Bible, man, I can't wait to give this old so-and-so. Man, I I'm gonna let them have it right between the horns. You missed it. You know what you did? You went looking for ammunition. You hear me? That's what we do. Sometimes we go looking for ammunition. I I was going looking. Listen, I don't need ammunition. I need the Lord to change my life. And you know what will change my life? You meet with Him. Everybody who met with the Lord was never the same. Never the same. Moses met in Old Testament glory with the person of God, and it made his face glow. In fact, his face was so bright that the people said, cover it up, we can't stand it. Put a veil over your face, Moses. And my Bible tells me that if the glory of the old covenant was so glorious that Moses ' face had to be veiled, how much greater is the glory of Christ? Who tore the veil in two and made a way into the Holy of Holies? You can't meet with him and still be the same old person. He'll change your life. I'm afraid the problem is we've been walking down the road. Maybe our conversation's right, but we've miss the expounding. We miss the sitting down and saying, Now, Lord, I want to see you. I want to see you. Because if I see you, I'll not stay like I am. I'll become what you want me to be. There was an expounding. Then I want you to notice something else. I want you to see the constraining. Look at the constraining. In verse number 28. The Bible says, and they drew nigh unto the village whither they went, and he made as though he would have gone on further. Now they're about to part company. Jesus is like he's going to just go on. He's just going to continue to make his journey. But watch this. But they constrained him, saying, abide with us. For it is toward evening, and the day is far spent, and he went in to tarry with them. And it came to pass as he sat at meat with them, he took bread and blessed it and broke, and he gave to them. And their eyes were open, and they knew him, and he vanished out of their sight. You say, preacher, what does constraining have to do with it? That word constraining is a very strong word. Do you know it means to plead or urge often with force? I don't know why I thought of this, but I thought of this. Some of you are old enough to remember when a teacher would get you by the ear. Anybody ever been gotten by the ear? You know what I'm talking about? There's a few honest souls in our presence And buddy, I don't care how big you are, somebody grabs you by the ear, you're going wherever they go. That's a tender part of your body. If you don't believe it. We'll get one of these big fellows to grab you hold by the ear and show you what that's like after church. But you'll go wherever they lead you. And it's as it's as if they grabbed the Lord and they said, Lord, don't leave. We want you to stay. He's walking away and they but Lord, you've got to stay. And they pled with the Lord and they begged the Lord. They wanted him. You say, what is this? This is an expression of desire. Now they don't know what's going on. Somebody said the heart knows reason that reason doesn't know. Their hearts are burning, and they don't want it to stop. Their hearts are burning and they want it to continue. And they their hearts got enough sense to know that he's the reason their heart's burning, and I better not let him go, because our heart will quit burning if we let him loose. And they said, we want you to stay with us, abide with us. See, they wanted him. Can I say to you, my friend, that desire is 90% of the battle? Psalm 37, 4 says, Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. I believe that's an abused text. I don't believe that text means that if you delight yourself in the Lord, He will just give you whatever you want. He'll order what you want. He'll arrange those desires. I believe he'll create the right desires when you delight yourself in the Lord. You see, appetites feed appetites. And whatever it is that you desire will enlarge itself and increase. And so as you and I hunger, well, what does the Matthew 5, 6, one of the Beatitudes? Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. You get hungry, you will get filled. When you're thirsty, you will be satisfied. Here's our problem. We're content with so little. And that's why we got what we got. We're just content. Somehow or another, we convince ourselves that there's no more. We just settle down. Remember what? Even at the end of Joshua's life, the Lord's still challenging him, there's more territory for you to cover. And he had already promised him that everywhere the sole of his foot would tread, that would be his land. And yet here he is, an old man, and there's still room to grow. Can I say to you, there's no end There's no limit, there's no plateau in the Christian walk. Well, how can a finite being get to the place that he's experienced the infinite? How can you and I get to the place that we've arrived? You know, here's the Apostle Paul after all of these years, and he says, I have not apprehended. That which I've been apprehended of. You know what he said? I hadn't got there. It's like he's standing on a horizon and he's looking way out in the distance, and he says, I'm not there yet, but I'm heading that way He had a desire burning in his heart. He wanted more. And these two on the road to Emmaus, they said, Lord, don't leave us. Stay with us. They didn't know it was the Lord, but they knew something was going on here and that he was making their heart burn. Said, don't leave us. Stay with us. And I say to you, if you're going to keep the fire burning, you've got to stay hungry and thirsty and desire. You've got to continue. You say, preacher, how do I do that? You feed the right desire. You feed the right desire. You feed the right appetite. I hate to admit this, but do you know when you eat healthy food, you start wanting healthy food? Now I really think something's happened to my brain. I am quite worried about this. And you lose that desire for that that you used to think you couldn't live without I was telling someone before I got married, my breakfast was the breakfast of champions. I had a two-liter Mountain Dew and one of those giant zebra cakes every morning. That's a breakfast of champions. Amen Probably shortened my life a good twenty years, the Lord knows But you know when you replace it with something better And you get up in the morning, and I I wasn't looking for this, and but you get up in the morning and and you've got scrambled eggs and bacon. And sausage to boot and biscuits. I I know it's not the healthiest thing. But it's a whole lot better than a zebra cake in Mountain Dew, amen. I mean you gotta give a fella credit where credit's due I suddenly lost my appetite for what I used to eat. You know what I'm trying to say? You feed the right thing in your life. You feed the right desires. You know what? You'll find yourself desiring more. You'll find yourself wanting more. Lord, come show me something. You'll find yourself wanting more of that fellowship that makes your heartburn. You'll find yourself wanting more. Lord, give me Give me more time with you, Lord. I want to hear your still small voice. Lord, I want that fire to burn in my heart. Oh Lord, give me more. And the more you feed the fire, the more it'll burn. You say, how do I keep my heart burning? How do I keep that fire going? Well, it starts with your conversation It continues with this expounding as the Lord takes the truth in Himself and shows Himself on the pages of the Word of God. And it requires a constraining on our part, as we desire that the Lord would make our hearts burn. And the Bible says that In verse number 32, they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us? While he talked with us by the way? And while he opened to us the scriptures. And they rose up the same hour. That's about a seven-mile trip. They didn't think about resting. They didn't think about relaxing. They gotta go back. You know why? They they they've gotten a new energy. There's a new there's a there's a fresh breath of air been breathed into their person. They're excited now. Isn't it strange how you can do things much more energetically when your heart's burning on the inside? You know, sometimes we'll stand and we sing the hymns, and we don't have to say my fire's not burning, but it shows. We sing our hymns as if it's a funeral dirge. You know why is no fire burning? But you let a fire get burning. You let that heart get stirred up. And my friend, you're not singing as if you're three-quarters out of this world. You're singing, my friend, with a new zeal and a new energy. Why? Because the fire's burning I'm just saying tonight, church, it's critical. Keep your fire burning. Don't let the fire go out. Remember Old Booth's words, the tendency of the fires to go out. You need to tend the fire. You need to feed the flames. You need to do the things that these disciples did that made their hearts burn. And oh, what a joy it was for them to go back. And they got a double blessing. Because when they get back to the upper room in Jerusalem and they meet with the disciples, guess who's there waiting on them? Jesus shows up again. That same one. And isn't that the beauty of this? That as you begin to meet with the Lord, He'll meet you in some of the most unexpected places and give blessing upon blessing. And he began to show himself, the Bible goes on to say. He said, Behold, my hands and my feet. And these disciples had another meeting, another meeting. See, the road to the Emmaus was not the end for them. It was just the beginning. And I'm grateful, my friend, every morning I get up. It's a beginning, another opportunity to just hear him and meet with him. Oh, may the Lord give us burning hearts this evening. You stand with me, please, and we'll have a word of prayer. Brother David