Luke chapter number two, and I'm going to begin a study here this morning, a series that I hope to go through in the coming days I'm going to read the first seven verses. If you're able, would you stand with me, please, as we honor the reading of God's Word? Luke chapter 2, verses 1 to 7. I'll read it out loud and if you'll follow along silently. The Bible says, and it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria. And all went to be taxed, every one into his own city. And Joseph also went up from Galilee. out of the city of Nazareth, unto Judea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David. to be taxed with Mary, his espoused wife, being great with child. And so it was that while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger Because there was no room for them in the inn. I'm going to stop reading there, and I want to highlight those several last words of verse number seven. There was no room for them in the inn. And the Lord helping me, I want to begin a series of messages this morning on keeping Christ in Christmas. Keeping Christ in Christmas. Father, as we bow our heads before you, we humbly pray that you'll be our help now. Lord, we stand where no man can stand alone. I pray, Father, that you would hide me behind the cross and fill me with your Spirit. Lord, would you speak to and work in all of our hearts? We've come here not to hear from man, we've come here to hear from heaven. And Lord, what we need today, thou hast. And so we look to thee and we ask, O Lord, for your help. And Lord, we'll thank you for what you do. I'm grateful you know us. You know us as only you can know a man. I'm grateful, Lord, you know the need of every heart And the need of every person in this place. And I pray, Father, in your mercy, just minister to the great need of each heart. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. You know, it seems strange as we read this passage of scripture That the God who made everything, there was no room for him when he arrived The creator of heaven and earth and all that is therein, the God who spoke and made the worlds. When he arrived in this world, when he arrived at this place, the place that he had created, when he arrived among men that he had given life to, when he arrived on this planet, the Bible says there was no room. He just simply was shunned. There was no place for him to lay. And when I think about even the message of the series, it seems almost a contradiction keeping Christ in Christmas. Is it that we need to keep him in something that's he's the very heart of as far as the celebration is concerned? And yet, such is the nature of rebellious men, and such is the nature of the age in which we live. When you read in your Bible in Revelation chapter 3, in verse number 20, I want to read this verse and I want you to hear it, please. The Bible says, Behold, I, this is Jesus, stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come into him and will sup with him and he with me. Is it not strange that the very thing that he gave birth to Has him on the outside rather on the inside? Is it not not just alarming to you that the very thing that depends upon him for life Is the very thing that he's been put out of. And he stands at the door and knocks. He's knocking where he should be ruling. He 's seeking entrance into the very thing that he ought to be the head of, for the Bible says that in all things he might have the preeminence. And yet here we are, and the Lord Jesus, in the age of Laodicea, which I believe we're living in, the Lord Jesus has been given a place outside of the church that he gave birth to. I remind you that he said, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it And so man does what man does, and that is remove God from the very places where God ought to be And here we are on another Christmas season, a time of remembering the birth of Christ, and let's be quite honest today That much of what goes on in the name of Christmas celebration has absolutely nothing to do with Jesus Christ It has much to do with man's culture, and it has much to do with silly tradition, but it has so little to do with the birth of the precious Lord Jesus. And so it is my goal and aim and purpose and desire and burden from this day until we celebrate that birth of Christ. To emphasize and put the spotlight on the fact that Jesus Christ came to this earth. We have nothing to celebrate if he were not born. We have no reason to be rejoicing and joyful had Jesus not come to this sin-cursed earth. So I'm going to do by God's grace and help everything in my power to put the spotlight on him Now this is a very simple message, and I pray the Lord use it to stir our hearts, but there's only three words I want to magnify. The first word is the word busy. I want you to see it. It's not in the text, but the principle is there. The next word I want you to see is the word blessing. And then the last word that I want you to see is the word birth. So busy blessing and birth Notice with me first the busy. You'll notice in verse number one, it came to pass in those days. What kind of days were those days? Well, the Bible tells us those were days where a decree had been made. Caesar Augustus made a decree. Now, let me say this: this was not a suggestion. He didn't say if you want to. How about just if you think about it, if you feel like it, if you sort of get in the notion, why don't you go back to where you're from and be counted so you can pay your tax? No, he made a decree. Do you know what that decree meant? It's do or die. You either do it or you die. I mean you just didn't have a lot of options And so a decree went forth. It was those days where decrees were made. There was absolute rule on the earth in those days. Oh, I know there were people upset about it. There were people that that were in anarchy over it. There were folks that really were really bothered by it. But if you wanted to go on living, you had to do what he decreed. And so they made a decree. But not only was it a day of decree, but it was a day of departures. You'll notice something here in verse 3. It says, all went to be taxed. Every one into his own city. Do you realize that the whole world was on the move? We're not talking about a provincial issue here. And we're not talking about sort of a regional area. We're talking about the then-known world, an empire that stretched from the India in the east to Britain in the west. And everywhere in between. And Caesar said, all of you need to get to where you were born, where you were from, because I want to count you and you've got to pay your tax. And there was a lot of people on the move. Now modern man seems to think he's the first to do everything. You know, busy as they said last um What was it, last weekend or the weekend before, the Thanksgiving weekend? That was the busiest travel holiday in recent times. I forget how many millions of people were flying and traveling and going here and yon. And we think, man, we're the first people to travel like this, but can I remind you that the Apostle Paul was try quite a well-traveled man in his day. Although much of it was done on foot or camel or donkey or boat or whatever other means, but they still got around. And what I'm saying is is that people move. It's the nature, someone said this, it's the nature of man to wander. Man does, man wanders. Man always has. So we see in the Bible that there's a lot of people on the move. There are many people leaving their homes and leaving their families. And some are traveling great distances. Some are going quite a lengthy journey here as they try to obey the decree. But I just want to insert this right here. I believe there's a determination, at least in the heart of Mary and Joseph. Because this trip is not about paying taxes. And this trip is not about obeying Caesar, or this trip's not about just simply making a trip. This is about a baby. The Bible says that that baby was, that that mother rather was great with child. She's on the verge of giving birth She's right on the verse. And don't you know that that is all that's on Mary and Joseph's mind? Now please don't tell me they're ignorant of the Bible. I believe that they knew the Old Testament truth that Jesus was to be born in Bethlehem And uh and you say, but preacher, what's going on here? I'll tell you what's going on here. God is shaking the whole world up, getting it ready for his son to be born. Now a lot of times we miss it, don't we? Oh, I'm sure there were protests. Well I doubt there were many. If there were protests, they probably were costly protests. You protest Caesar and he'd just as soon take you ahead as he would your money. And so there probab it probably costs, but I'm sure being people, people being what people are, there were people who said, I hate paying this tax, and I'm going to let everybody know it. By the way, I don't know of anybody that just gets excited come tax time. Nobody jumps for joy when they have to pay the federal government or whoever, the state government, or whoever it may be. But here is the people. Here are two people that are determined to keep this about what it's really about. It's about a birth. It's about this baby. It's about the entrance of the Lord Jesus into this old world. Can I just make an application here just now, please? Yes, it is a busy time. And man, we seem to think, why these are the busiest times in the world. We've probably been busier. Although Daniel did say in the last days, man are run to and fro. And I believe we're fulfilling that today. Man, I'll tell you, we walk a run around rather. like a chicken with its head cut off and don't know where we're going or why we're going there or where we're gonna arrive when we get there. I mean that's how confused we are But the reality is, there's always busyness. But don't let the busyness rob you of the blessing of the birth of Jesus Christ. Beware that busyness often leads to barrenness. Just because we're doing a lot doesn't mean we're accomplishing a lot. Many, probably all of you have worked in some environment where you had busy people that didn't get anything done I've worked in a lot of different areas and I've seen people that they're always busy doing something, but they don't ever get anything accomplished. You can be busy. Listen, I seen a fellow one time had a preacher come and uh he he had bad nerves and some other physical problems, and so they got a rocking chair and they put it in the uh under the tabernacle where we were meeting and you talk about working that rocking chair. And the harder that preacher preached, the faster that old chair went, man. He was moving it, but he never got anywhere. He never moved from where he sat. And there are a lot of people, they're busy, they've accomplished something. But listen, don't let the busyness of the season make you barren in your spirit. Don't let all of the activities, and I'm not condoning or condemning them, I'm just simply saying, keep a determination in your heart That this isn't about gatherings, and this isn't about family, and this isn't about feasting, and this isn't about gifts, but this is about Christ. He was born. He came to this earth to make a way for me to go to heaven and save me from my sin. And had he not been born, he could not have died. And had he not died, I couldn't be saved. And my friend, had he not died, he wouldn't have arose again on the third day, and there would be no hope. Keep it about Christ. Keep Christ. By the way, this won't happen on accident. Because I'll tell you what will happen, you'll get caught up in everything going on. And you'll get swept down the stream of time, and you'll get to the end of the month and say, What just happened to me? I was swimming with some friends of mine. We were teenagers, and we went up in the on the Blue Ridge Parkway, and there was a little stream that came through, and when the Storms came higher up on the mountain, that stream would swell. And there was a place that you could jump in. It it was a hole in a rock. And if you jumped down into that and there was enough water coming down through that stream, it would take you underground, about as far as from me to Richard, and spit you out up in another little place. And man, it was a ride and a half. And we were up there jumping one time and and some of the boys said, you know, you ought to try this. And I was timid by nature, and I wasn't so sure about it. But I sure didn't want to look like a yellow-bellied chicken among my friends. So I said, I'll do it. And man, I jumped in. Well I didn't realize that they'd had a cloud burst Higher up the mountain. And when that cloud burst came, there were several inches of water that came into that stream, and it put extra force on that experience. And about the time I hit the water, I could hear the rushing of that cloud burst. And it just I mean it just so happened at a at a moment of time that that water hit that hole about the same time I did And you talk about going for a ride. I went upside down around and around and through and I really when I come out the other end and it spit me out, I felt like Jonah probably getting Spit up on the beach by the well, because it threw me up into the bushes on the other side of that bank. And I'm laying there thinking, what just happened? I really didn't know where I was or what was going on for a minute. It was all over, just like that. Last thing I remember was, and you know something, you'll start this month if you don't determine right now. And you'll get to the end of it, and you'll be laying up on the beach of many activities, and you'll be saying, What just happened to me? Friend, don't let it happen. Determine this is about him. It's going to be about him. I'm going to keep my eyes on him. I'm going to walk with him. That doesn't mean you you become uh a Grinch and you sit around and growl about every set. No, no. It just simply means that you keep your eyes where your eyes need to be You keep your heart where your heart needs to be. You keep right with God and make it special. Isn't it even extra special to know that we're we know what we're celebrating? Something real, something specific. Christ Jesus was born. And so let's keep it about Him. There's that word busy. Let me move to the next word, and that word is the word blessing. You start in verse number four, and there are three characters I want you to see. The first character is Joseph. I got him circled in my Bible so I don't miss it. Joseph went up from Galilee. Verse 5, the next character is Mary, got her sprinkled too. And then the last character is the child. He's in verse 5. That's Jesus. And so we see these three lone figures. And I don't want you to miss this. It really seems these three are all alone. Because you see there's some coldness that they experience. I've never noticed this really or or had it emphasized in my heart like It has been of late. In verse number three, it says, everyone went into his own city. Joseph or yeah, Joseph went to his own city. Do you see that? Does your mind not stop and say, where were his relatives? Was there no one there related to Joseph that would say, I'll open my home to you? I'll open my home to you. I'll let you come in. Were there no distant kin that still lived there? Listen, this land was known for its hospitality, but our Lord didn't receive any. You hear people talk about southern hospitality, and that is a thing. I think it's a thing of distant past. But there is a thing as hospitality. I never forget meeting a Newfoundlander, and that Newfoundlander, he he and the Newfoundland people of Newfoundland are very hospitable people. And when you ask for directions in Newfoundland, they don't say go down the road and turn left and here. They say, I'll jump in the car and go with you and show you where it's at. And then when you get there, they'll say, I'll come in and and and drink a cup of tea with you. They're just hospitable people. They welcome you in. And here's the people that are known. These people were known for their hospitality. And yet when Joseph, Mary, and that expectant mother Mary arrived with that little child, there's nobody there. There's nobody there to take them in. In fact, the innkeeper says, no room. Now hold on a minute. Is there not someone who would give up their room for an expectant mother? Now again, we're not living in in in 2023. We're not talking about the days of rudeness and ugliness where people will where men, grown, healthy, strong men, will sit and watch a woman stand rather than stand and let a woman sit. We're not talking about that day. That's wrong, by the way. And uh it got awful quiet. Maybe I'll go back to that. That's wrong, by the way. There ought to be some respectability and some uh some manners, I think, in the day in which we're living. It ought to be demonstrated. You can't change change the whole world, but if you've got a son, teach your son. And you're if you're a man, be a man, be that kind of man and set that kind of example. But no one, no one, look, there's there nobody wants to give up their room. The only other option is a stable And Mary and Joseph and that child went to a stable. I'm sure it was evident to everyone who saw Mary that that baby's coming. How many of you know that's evident? You know, you know that time. You see it's appeared, it's coming close. And and I'm sure there had to be someone There should have been someone that could have shown some hospitality, but it was nothing but coldness. Until these three, these two long figures, soon to be three, are in a a lowly stable and there in a manger they lay that little baby. What a sad entrance. And I thought about that, and I'll be honest with you, as I studied this, I got mad. I got mad at the innkeeper. I thought, what kind of jerk would turn a a woman who was expecting a baby out to the stable? And then I got mad about his family. I said, what kind of low-down family doesn't care enough for their family to say, hey, I'll open my door, I I'll give up my bed, I'll sleep on the floor. You you can have a a soft place And but then the Lord said, hold on a minute. There's some comfort in this verse. Comfort? Comfort that the the this newborn baby had to be put in a manger. Comfort that they received the cold shoulder. Oh yeah, there's comfort. Because you know who came to that stable? God did. God did. You see, the comfort of this uh of this event is that God was there. God was there. Heaven touched earth in the little stable. God came down. Oh, I know Mary and Joseph were shunned maybe by family or distant relatives. Mary and Joseph were not welcomed in the end But I'll tell you what, they were in the company of God Almighty when Jesus Christ was born. Now, friend, you may be sitting here and your Christmas doesn't look too bright There may be empty table, empty chairs, and an empty home and a burdened heart. There may be difficulties and sickness and all sorts of challenges laying before you But if you're a child of God, can I remind you something? God is there. Your family may shun you, but there's a friend who sticks closer than a brother. There's a God in heaven who's with you and will never leave you nor forsake you. What a comfort it is. Christmas isn't about what. It's about who. We forget that, don't we? We forget it's not about what we get or what we give or what we have, it's about who. And that who is the Lord Jesus. And what a comfort it is to know that we're never alone. Now God did some things that were gracious of him. He sent shepherds their way. Oh, their family might not have rejoiced with them, and the innkeeper and the company in there did not rejoice with them, but a bunch of strangers showed up. And said, we were keeping sheep out there in the field, and some angels came. And they told us, they told us that a Savior was born. They told us that God had come to earth. They told us the good news that a Savior had been born. And we're here to see Him. We want to see Him. And they got welcomed in. It might have been a strange company gathered in that little stable, but it was the ordering of the Lord. And can I remind you something this morning? Oftentimes we look at our lives and we think the events of our lives are strange, and sometimes they are. You have no explanation for them. Why the loss and why the cross? But aren't you glad God still comes in the midst of all of that? That God is there? He's not a God who's afar off. Friend, he's not a God who's distant. He's not a God who doesn't care. The Bible calls him a friend, a shepherd, a father, a comforter, the prince of peace. He's all that and more. He's all that and more. And he's there. He's here with you. That's the blessing of Christmas. The blessing of Christmas, that God would come and be born among men. Now, John doesn't give us an account of the birth of Christ outside of these words And I want you to hear them. John doesn't tell of mangers and stables and angels and shepherds and all of that. Here's what he does say. The word was made flesh. And dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory. The glory as of the only, begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Can you imagine? Hey, I'm sure that friends and family and and and the the inconvenience of no room was just a distant memory when Mary sat there and looked in the eyes of that little baby and looking back at her. were that were the eyes of the ancient of days. Looking back at her was not the eyes of an innocent little child who had just drawn its first breath. In the beginning was God. Listen, he was before man was ever made, before there ever was time, there was God, God dwelt, and there he was. And now holding him, looking at him, here's that little baby. Here's God wrapped up in human flesh. God incarnate. What a comfort it was My Bible says Mary understood that to some degree. She rejoiced in her song as she bore him in her body about the privilege to carry her God, my God, and my Savior. Now, whether or not she understood to the full, only God knows, but here's what I do know. The Bible records that she understood that thing in her was the holy son of God. And when she held him, she didn't hold just a regular, and I know that's almost offensive, a regular old baby. Because if it's your baby, it's not a regular old baby. Amen. It's a special baby But there's something common about babies. They're very similar, aren't they? They cry They usually have no teeth. Well, they always have no teeth, I reckon. I guess a baby born with teeth would be an odd little thing. And then, you know, they they they're just they're babies. But Mary didn't have just a baby. Mary held God. Can you look how how did God condescend to such state? Oh, wonder of wonders, isn't it? That God would become man. And the comfort in that little Oh, it was a humble place. There was there there was no palace bed for him to lay in, nor for them. There was there was probably uh a bit of chill in the air. There there it wasn't a place of great warmth. It was where you kept animals. The smell probably was not that appealing because again, it was the place where animals lived, but yet it was the place where God came. And where God was born, where God entered this earth through that virgin's womb. And what greater comfort could a man have, whether he lived in a cardboard box? or a palace on a hillside for God Himself to be there. My friend, it's not about the the the wherewithal and the what that's around us. Thank God for all of his blessing. What really matters is God there. And if God's there, it's a royal place. Old John Bunyan used to say, God turned his prison into a palace. Nineteen years he lived in the Bedford jail, suffering for his faith in Christ and his stance on the gospel. And yet he said, in that palace God would come. In that place of suffering, God was there. In that place of darkness, God dwelled. In that place of hardship, God was there. And let me encourage you, dear Christian, don't get caught up in the mindset of this age that forgets God and that puts him out of the picture. You may not have the finest, the best, the most, etc. But if you've got God your way ahead of everybody else, thank God for a God who dwells among his people. Isn't that a comfort? In fact, I believe that manger and that whole scene was insignificant to Mary and Joseph in light of who paid them a visit. And that is the Lord. There's a third word I want to magnify. And that is the word birth. You'll notice in our text here in Luke chapter 2, verse 7, she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger. Now those clothes, those clothes are greatly debated in the day in which we live. Uh some would say they were mere traveling clothes and there's other things, but the more I study it, I I think the older writers have it right when they call them grave clothes. Clothes that were used or wrapped bodies. Perhaps if you were a committed Jew and you traveled some distance, you went prepared. You went prepared. Many of these people were much more prepared than the Boy Scouts. You know, the Boy Scouts, I guess, I guess they still teach. I hope they still teach. I don't know, boy, girl, whatever they are anymore. But I hope that they still teach this thing of being prepared I was with a fellow traveling one time. We had an accident, or not an accident, a breakdown, mechanical breakdown, and he opened the trunk of his car. And I said, brother, you could rebuild a motor with everything you carry. And it was just a regular car. And he had everything under the sun. There was a part broke on the car. And he had one in the trunk. I said, man, you talk about being prepared. He said, driving what I drive, you always have to be prepared. He said, I can all but rebuild her if I have to. And he and he did. He fixed it. We went on our way. And I said, Praise the Lord for a prepared man. They were prepared. But isn't it interesting that they wrapped that baby in these clothes? I'll tell you why they did, because it spoke of things to come. Nothing's accidental in the Bible. Nothing's accidental in God's Word. Nothing's accidental in the life of the Lord Jesus. Here our Lord is wrapped in the very things that He came for. Notice the circumstance. Again, I'll say it was not ideal nor was it inviting. You don't have to have a very vivid imagination to think about what was in that place. It's where animals live. It wasn't a clean place. It wasn't a place that was free of all bacteria and germs. It was not the most inviting, it was very humble. In fact, it was probably the most humble place you could think of entering the world at that time. And yet it's where Jesus chose to be born. I believe it demonstrates to you and I that it really didn't matter where they laid the baby. It mattered where they'd hang the man. What's important, and please understand this. I don't believe it's wrong for you and I to celebrate the fact Christ was born. The angels did it, the shepherds did it. Two years later, the wise men did it. There was a lot of celebration around the birth of Christ, but it was never about a baby. It was about a Savior. Because you'll notice, would you look at this text, go down a little bit in Luke 2, the angel said unto them, these shepherds, verse 10. Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a baby Noah, what? A Savior, which is Christ the Lord. The rejoicing of the angels was not over the baby that was in the manger, but over the Savior who had come to this earth. Don't make more out of the circumstances than we should Because we see the cross loomed in the future, and that was the whole purpose. I don't know where I saw the picture. I I wished I could remember. It's gone from my memory. But the picture is burned in my mind. I'll never forget it. I pray I don't. But I saw a picture one time. It could be, it could be. I had a brother who painted. uh brother in the Lord who was a tremendous artist. It could be that it was in his home. I don't remember. But in that picture was a manger with the baby Jesus. Bowing on one side was Joseph, on the other Mary, just a common, ordinary-looking family with the baby laying in the manger. No halos, no glowing. Off in the corner was an animal. Seemed like there was a a donkey on one side and a couple of sheep over here. But what really struck my mind was that laying in a shadow form that darkened with intensity as it got nearer and nearer that baby was the cross, was a shadow of a cross. There was no image there, it was a shadow. Off in the distance, somewhere that image stood stood, but as that cross, as that shadow fell over that little manger, you could see with the the the darkening of that of that image and the clarity of it as it landed on that baby Jesus. And the title of that painting was Born to Die. And I thought, what a what a what a demonstration of reality. Because the Lord Jesus was born to die. Looming in his future, 33 and a half years down the road, was an old rugged cross. Down through the annals of time would stand the cross. And my friend, listen, we don't bow at a manger. We bow at a cross. We don't kneel before a mere baby, we kneel before a mighty king. One who hung on an old rugged cross and paid my sin debt in full and shed his blood. So that I could be saved. Listen, my friend, the birth of Jesus is all about the cross. He was born to die. And die he did. He suffered as no man suffered. He hung between heaven and earth as a spectacle to every man, and as they watched him give up the ghost, They watched him not knowing that as he hung there, he was paying the sin debt of the whole world. He was paying sin 's penalty. He was taking the price and the punishment of God upon himself. And he was making a way for every man to be saved who would humble himself and come to God through him. Man's greatest problem is his rotten old pride. If pride says you do it, you try it, you fix it, you make a way, you you do something, and I'm telling you the cross is a pride killer Because the cross the cross says you can't do it. The cross says your pride is going to take you to hell. The cross says you must look to me. You must trust in me. I'm the only way. I'm the way, the truth, and the life The cross says that Jesus alone can save. My friends, you better run to him. We need to keep Christ in Christmas because it's not about a birth and a baby. It's about God making a way to be born again. I leave you with the text I read at the start of this meeting, 1 Timothy 1. 15. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation. That Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. Friend, if you want to keep Christ in your Christmas, remember In spite of the busyness, there was a birth. Remember at the birth, there was a beginning and a blessing. God came This wasn't his beginning. This was not the beginning of him. This was the beginning, my friend, of a new and a living way. The beginning, an opening of the door, a light. The old song, it came upon a midnight clear. Into this dark world the light of the world began to shine. The devil thought he had snuffed him out on Calvary's Hill, but I'm glad on the third and appointed morning the light began to shine again. He arose and he lives in church, he lives today, and if you don't know him as your Savior, you need to be saved. Trust him while there's still time. You and I both know time's running out. That hourglass, she's emptying quicker than you ever thought she would. And soon you'll be in eternity. Soon you'll stand before God. And my friend, let me ask you a question. What's he going to do with you? What's he gonna do with you? Who what's the God of this Bible gonna do? I'm not talking about the God of this culture that's a easy going uh sort of an an old fellow that just goes along with everything. I'm talking about the righteous, holy, true, and pure God of this book who can't look upon sin. What's he gonna do with you? My friend, listen, you better think and pray and open your heart because listen, what you do with him will determine what he does with you. I didn't say what you do for him, I said what you do with him. What you do with him will decide what he does with you. Here's what you need to do with him. But as many as received him But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. Even to them that believe on his name. Have you opened your heart's door? Listen, friend, Christ lives in all the saved. It's what the Bible teaches. I love that hymn. I was singing it this morning. Christ liveth in me. Isn't that a wonder? He lives in us. He lives in you if you're saved. Oh, friend, please hear me today. If you're not saved, don't go on that way. Don't die and go to hell just because you're proud or stubborn Find you a place and call on God and get born again. And understand that He died on that old rugged cross. This isn't just about a baby. This is about a Savior. Who's made a way for you to be born again? To have your sins all forgiven. And dear brother and sister, please keep Christ in your Christmas. You and I don't know how many of these we get to celebrate. Fifty, sixty, seventy, eighty, I don't know. But they every one ought to be about him. Because he's what matters. Let's keep him in our Christmas. It won't happen on accident. You gotta determine some things. Determined today. Determined today. God help me. Maybe you're here all keyed up and wound up about everything you got to do this month and man your nerves are shot and you're ajar. Slow down. It's not about everything that 's going on. It's about Christ coming to this earth to be born. Let's keep our eyes on him, church. Would you stand with me please? If you need to come and pray, these altars are open.