Exodus chapter number thirty-eight. I'm sorry, Exodus chapter forty. Exodus chapter number forty. And um We'll read here in just a minute, but before we do, a little background information. Back in chapter number 25 of Exodus, we find there that God gives Moses the information for building the tabernacle. And um the instructions that he gives come from God Himself. That this is not Moses' plan. This is God's plan. And so he gives him the instructions how it's to be built, uh very detailed instructions. The um the outer perimeter, which is a a white linen fence, is to be a hundred cubits uh wide , excuse me, 100 cubits long, 50 cubits wide, which is 172 feet by 86 feet roughly That's the outer perimeter. Seven foot high white linen fence that goes around around the tabernacle area And then the tent itself is to be 30 cubits long, 10 cubits wide, that's 51 feet by 17 feet, really, not all that big And of course inside uh the tent we have the various articles of furniture, the um altar of incense, the uh Alder of showbread, the golden candlestick, and of course the Ark of the Covenant. And uh so God gives all these instructions starting in chapter twenty-five, but then later uh they actually began to build it. And so by the time we get to chapter number thirty-nine, the tabernacle has been completed. But now start to read here chapter 40, verse 32. Let's look at this. Exodus 40, verse 32. When they went into the tent of a congregation, and when they came near to the altar , They washed as the Lord commanded Moses. And he rode up the court round about the tabernacle on the altar and set up the hanging of the court gate. So Moses finished the work. Then a cloud covered the tent of the congregation, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the congregation because the cloud abode thereon, and the glory of the Lord Filled the tabernacle. Let's bow for a for the further word of prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you for the privilege. We've had to be here in the house of God tonight. Thank you for the songs that had been a blessing to our hearts. Thank you for the fellowship we've had one with another thus far. And now we have this time once again to look into your word. And Lord, I pray as we consider The Word of God tonight, I pray that you'd speak to our hearts. Pray the Holy Spirit might have his will and way in our hearts and lives. Lord, I pray for those in the auditorium and also pray for those listening by means of radio If there be any who have never trusted Jesus as their Savior, I pray tonight be that wonderful night, they would say yes to Him and know the joy of salvation. Then Lord as Christians do a work in our hearts. Draw us ever near to yourself. Accomplish that work in us that you would have to be for your honor and your glory. And for all that you do, Lord, we'll give you the thanks and the praise now in Jesus' marvelous name, and for its sake we ask it. Amen. I want to bring a message tonight on the glory of the Lord. And uh that that term glory is found over 400 times in the Bible. Uh trying to define the glory of the Lord uh may not be so easy. Here's what a Bible dictionary says. It defines it this way, the manifestation of God's divine attributes and perfections. And uh so we find here that as the tabernacle was set up, uh it says a cloud covered the uh tent of the congregation and the glory of the Lord filled. The tabernacle. We find later on, and by the way, as as you go through that period of time uh when the tabernacle was in existence for you know several hundred years, uh there were several different times where it was where it was filled you know with the glory of the Lord. Then we come up to Solomon's time. Turn, if you will, to uh 2 Chronicles chapter 5. 2 Chronicles chapter number 5. And look at what the Bible says here. Second Chronicles chapter number five Solomon, of course, you know, built the temple. David had a desire to build it, but God wouldn't allow him. Remember, he was a man of war. But he did collect a lot of the material that was to be used. And so Solomon built the temple. Now it's finished. Look in chapter number five here of 2 Chronicles and look at verse 13. Says it came to pass as the trumpeters and singers were as one to make one sound to be heard in praising and thanking the Lord. And when they lifted up their voice with the trumpets and the cymbals and the instruments of music and praised the Lord, saying For he is good, for his mercy endureth forever, that then the house was filled with a cloud, even the house of the Lord So the priest could not stand to minister by reason of the cloud, for the glory of the Lord had filled the house of God. What an amazing thing that must have been as those people gathered there in the temple and saw the glory of God as it filled the house. Also, if you look over in chapter number seven, same book, 2 Chronicles, chapter number 7 Verse number one, 2 Chronicles 7, verse 1, says, Now when Solomon had made an end of praying, the fire came down from heaven and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices, and the glory of the Lord filled the house. And the priest could not enter into the house of the Lord because the glory of the Lord had filled the Lord's house. When all the children of Israel saw how the fire came down, and the glory of the Lord upon the house, They bowed themselves with their faces to the ground upon the pavement and worshiped and praised the Lord, saying, For he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. So they're they're having a revival time And uh constantly we find this situation where God's glory filled the house. But Things didn't go well later. Solomon, in spite of the fact that God had appeared to him twice, the Bible says, and God had blessed him. Uh you you read in in Kings and Chronicles the things that God did during Solomon's reign. I mean it's it's unbelievable. I mean the kingdom was expanded the greatest during his reign. And uh God God blessed him materially um in such a great way But sad to say , things went downhill. 1 Kings chapter 11. Look at that passage, if you will. 1 Kings Chapter Number Eleven 1 Kings chapter 11, verse number 1. It says, But King Solomon loved many strange women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites. Ammonites, Edomites, Zidonians, and Hittites. Of the nations concerning which the Lord said unto the children of Israel, you shall not go into them, neither shall they come in unto you. For surely they will turn your heart after their gods. Solomon clave unto these in love. He had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred concubines, and his wives turned away his heart. For it came to pass when Solomon was old that his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father. For Solomon went after Ashtra, the goddess of the Zidonians, and after Milcom, the abomination of the Ammonites. Solomon did evil in the sight of the Lord and went not fully after the Lord as did David his father. Then did Solomon build a high place for Chemosh, the abomination of Moab, in the hill that's before Jerusalem, and for Malek, the abomination of the children of Ammon. Likewise did he for all his strange wives which burnt incense and sacrificed unto their gods. And the Lord was angry with Solomon, because his heart was turned from the Lord God of Israel, which had appeared unto him twice. And I commanded him concerning this thing that he should not go after other gods. But he kept not that which the Lord commanded. Wherefore the Lord said to Solomon, Forasmuch as this is done of thee, and thou hast not kept my covenant and my statutes which I have commanded thee, I will surely rend the kingdom from thee. And will give it to thy servant. Notwithstanding in thy days I'll not do it for David, thy father's sake, but I'll rent it out of the hand of thy son. Howbeit I will not rend away all the kingdom, but will give one try to thy son for David, my servant's sake, and for Jerusalem's sake, which I have chosen. So what what a sad story. Here's here is one whom the Bible seems to indicate as the greatest wise man in the world. I mean he wrote he wrote the book of Proverbs. He wrote the Song of Solomon, wrote Ecclesiastes. Obviously God had blessed him in such a great way, and yet in his later years turned his back on God. You know, that that should be a warning for everybody. It doesn't make any difference, you know, how wise we are, uh how much God has blessed us. Uh there's always a danger. And it's because we have an old sinful nature that we were born with. And so, in spite of all the blessings of God, uh Solomon uh turned his back on the Lord, not only did he allow his wives to introduce their gods to the land, but he got involved in in worshiping those gods himself. And so as a result, uh the Lord said, I'm gonna run the kingdom away from you. And uh, but I'm gonna give one tribe uh to your son, not for your sake, but for David's sake. Well, 931 BC, that's that's a pretty well documented date. The kingdom was divided. And so from that point on, you've got two different kingdoms. You have the northern kingdom, which is made up of the ten tribes. Jeroboam comes to reign over them. That kingdom lasts for 209 years. And as you read about it in Kings and Chronicles, they never had a good king. And in their case, every single one of those kings in the northern kingdom, it says they did evil in the sight of the Lord. Finally they got parents carried away captive by the Assyrians. Um about 722 BC is the figure Well, the southern kingdom came to be reigned over by uh Solomon Saud Rhabon Uh that kingdom lasted a little longer. It lasted actually uh three hundred and uh forty-five years. Um Because they had a few good kings. Uh they they did have a few good good kings that served the Lord, and so their kingdom lasted longer, but they also fell into idolatry and they got carried away by the Babylonians in uh in five eighty six B C. So here's here's this uh people that have been blessed in such a great way had David as their king and then Solomon really brings the kingdom to its greatest uh zenith But now he's fallen into uh into sin. God runs the kingdom. Both of those groups, the northern kingdom, the southern kingdom, both of them fall into idolatry, both of them get carried away into captivity. Well, look if you will to Ezekiel chapter number nine We 're talking about the glory of the Lord now. Look at Ezekiel chapter number nine, if you will. Ezekiel chapter number nine. And uh at at this time in history The final captivity has not taken place for Judah. Ezekiel is in that second group that got carried away into captivity. He is in Babylon as as he's writing this. So the the final captivity of Judah is still future as as this is being written. But in chapter number nine Excuse me, this is back up to chapter 8, I'm sorry. Chapter number 8. Okay, Ezekiel 8. Begin to read here. It says, It came to pass in the sixth year. In the sixth month, in the fifth day of the month, as I sat in mine house and the elders of Judah sat before me, that the hand of the Lord God fell there upon me. Then I beheld and low a lightness as the appearance of fire, from the appearance of his loins even downward, fire, and from his loins even upward as the appearance of brightness as the color of amber. And he put forth the form of an hand that took me by a lock of mine head, and the Spirit lifted me up between the earth and the heaven, and brought me in the visions of God to Jerusalem. To the door of the inner gate that looketh toward the north, where was the seat of the image of jealousy, which provoketh the jealousy. In other words, that's an idol. Now make a note of verse 4, if you will, because we're going to come back to that. It says, and behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there. According to the vision that I saw in the plane. Then said he unto me, Son of man, lift up thine eyes now and the way toward the north. So I lift up mine eyes away toward the north, and behold, northward at the gate of the altar, this image of jealousy, this idol. He's this is the vision God's giving him. He's actually in Babylon. But God's giving him this vision of what's going on back in Jerusalem. So here's an idol right in the gate. Verse 6. He said furthermore unto me, Son of Man, seeest thou what they do? Even the great abomination that the house of Israel committeth here, that I should go far from my sanctuary, but turn thee yet again, and thou shalt see greater abominations. And he brought me to the door of the court, and when I looked, behold a hole in the wall. Then said he unto me, Son of man, dig now in the wall, and when I have digged in the wall, behold a door. He said to me, Go in and behold the wicked abomination that they do here. So I went in and saw and behold every form of creeping things and abominable beasts and all the idols of the house of Israel portrayed upon the wall roundabout. And there stood before them 70 men of the ancients of the house of Israel. That's the Sanhedrin. In the midst of them stood Jaz and I the son of Shaphan with every man his censer in his hand, and a thick cloud of incense went up. Then said he unto me, Son of man, hast thou seen what the ancients of the house of Israel do in the dark, every man in the chambers of his imagery? For they say, The Lord seeth us not, the Lord hath forsaken the earth. He said also unto me, Turn thee yet again, and thou shalt see greater abominations that they do. And he brought me to the door of the gate of the Lord's house, which was toward the north, and behold, there sat women weeping for Tammuz. That had to do with fertility worship. Very wicked. Verse 15 Then said he unto me, Hast thou seen this, O son of man? Turn thee yet again, thou shalt see greater abominations than these. were about five and twenty men with their backs toward the temple of the Lord and their faces toward the east, and they worshiped the sun toward the east. Then said he unto me, Hast thou seen this, O son of man? Is it a right thing to the house of Judah that they commit the abominations which they commit here? But they have filled the land with violence, and have returned to provoke me to anger. And lo, they put the branch to the nose. That is a gesture of contempt towards God. What that is. Therefore will I also deal in fury. Mine I shall not spare, neither will I have pity. And though they cry in mine ears with a loud voice, yet I'll not hear them. Think of what we just read, all that is going on here in Jerusalem, in the temple, all this wicked That is going on in the temple. But then I look back at verse 4 and it says, Behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there. How can that be? How can God still be there in the midst of all this that's going on? Well all I can say is he's long suffering. He is long suffering. I'm glad he's long suffering. Uh but there is an end to his long suffering God is patient, but his patience wears out. I heard someone say this years ago, beware the wrath of a patient man. Beware the wrath of a patient man, because when it does break forth, it's going to break forth in its fury, isn't it? But it says the glory of the God of Israel was there. Well, it eventually began to depart. Look over at chapter nine now. Chapter 9 verse 1. Quite also mine ears with a loud voice, saying, Cause them that have the charge over the city to draw near Even every man with his destroying weapon in his hand. Behold, six men came from the way of the higher gate, which lieth toward the north. And every man a slaughter weapon in his hand, and one man among them was clothed with linen, with a writer's inkorn by his side. And they went in and stood beside the brazen altar. Now particularly verse 3 And the glory of the God of Israel was gone up from the cherub, whereupon he was, to the threshold of the house. Called to the man with the linen which had the writer's inkorn by side. Now this moved up from the cherub up to the threshold of the house. Chapter ten, verse four. Look at chapter ten, verse four. Then the glory of the Lord went up from the cherub and stood over the threshold of the house. The house was filled with a cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of the Lord's glory. Notice there's a gradual departure. Chapter ten, verse eighteen Then the glory of the Lord departed from off the threshold of the house and stood over the cherubims. And the cherubims lift up their wings and mounted up from the earth in my sight. When they went out, the wheels also were beside them, and everyone stood at the door of the east gate of the Lord's house. And the glory of the God of Israel was over them above. There's this gradual departure. Chapter 11, verse 23. It says, and the glory of the Lord went up from the midst of the city and stood upon the mountain which is on the east side of the city. And after that it's gone. I don't know if you see this or not, but it seems like there's a reluctance that God has in leaving. It's gradual. It's not just very sudden. But he has to. These these people have been warned over and over Well what happened? Finally we got carried away into captivity. And so now the glory is departing. There was a time when the glory of the Lord filled the temple. Fill the tabernacle. What a great time that must have been. But now the glory of the Lord has departed. You know, I think about the daughter-in-law of Eli. Remember she she gave birth to a son And she named the Nicobad, which means the glory has departed from Israel. Well the glory had departed here. It's gone. Now there's going to be a time, I believe, during the millennium when the glory is coming back. But it's going here. And, you know, that has a lesson, I think. For us today , because the glory of God can depart from a church, it can depart from a person. I'm not talking about losing your salvation. You're not going to lose your salvation. If you're saved, that's forever, isn't it? Jesus said, I give them them eternal life, they shall never perish. But we can lose the blessing of God, can't we? And just as the glory of the Lord departed from Israel, it can depart from a church. I know look, I know churches that used to be on fire for God. Pastor knows churches used to be on fire for God. And some of them are not even around today. Some of them are gone today. Uh I know folks and you do too that used to go to church and used to be faithful. Today you can't find them. Lord 's departed. Um you know, one thing I think all of us, you know, we we may not have a lot of talents, there may be a lot of things that we can't do, but there is one thing every Christian can do, and that's be faithful We can all be faithful. And uh it's a glorious thing when you're faithful to the Lord. But the glory can depart And so here's my question today. What keeps the glory from departing? Whether it be in the church, whether it be in our personal Lord, what keeps it from departing? Well, these are simple things. They're these are things you've heard before. You know, there is nothing new under the sun. You haven't heard any new messages. Everything it's we've ever heard is, you know, it's it's the same thing's been preached before, maybe in a little different package. But these are very simple things, but I believe they will keep the glory from departing. And the first thing is this keep your eyes on Jesus. Keep your eyes on him. Uh that'll keep the boy from departing. You know, in in uh the book of Revelation When the Lord brought that message to the church at Ephesus, remember he said you've left your first love. He didn't say you lost it, didn't lose it, see you left it. And if if you leave it, you leave it for something else, don't you? There was something going to take its place. And and our problem, and it was this look, it was the same thing with the Israelites. It took our eyes off the Lord. began to look at the idols round about, the other nations. And pretty soon they're worshiping them. And the glory departed. Well , the devil is trying to get us to take our eyes off Jesus. Get your eyes on something else. And oh boy, there's plenty of things to get your eyes on. You know, this this world is filled with all kinds of things to grab our attention, right? And and Satan is active to try to get us to look somewhere else. Take your eyes off the Lord. And Someone has said this, when people backslide, they usually go back to the same old things they knew before, before they were saved. Because that's what they were used to. That's what they go back to. Well, we get our eyes off the Lord and Satan says, Well, we could go back to this. And people do that, don't they? And the glory departs. Uh so keep her eyes fixed on Jesus. And remember Peter, as long as he was walking on the water, as long as he kept his eyes on Jesus, he was walking. Um you say you can't do that. Yeah, I know you can, but he did it. Uh the same God that created Natural laws. Can suspend natural laws if he wants to, right? And Jesus walked on the water and he said to Peter, Come, and he walked on the water. As long as he kept his eyes on him, he walked Took his eyes off Modana and began to sing. Look, we take our eyes off of him. We don't know where we're going to end up if we take our eyes off of him, do we? And I know, you know, th there's a tendency to think, well, I'll be okay Well I'm look, I'm not I'm not going to go out into open sand. I I have a message, I haven't preached a message, but I have a message on the prodigal son But in thinking about him, you know, long time before he ever left home, I think he was thinking about it. And I I think maybe he thought this way, well, look, I'm not gonna I'm not gonna go out in this end. I just wanna see what's out there in the world. Down there in that far country, I want to see what's down there. I'm not going to get involved in anything bad. Well, here's the problem. You don't know where your old flesh is going to take you, do you? And you take your eyes off the Lord, you don't know where it's going to end up And so the first thing in keeping the glory from departing, keep your eyes on Jesus. Second thing, stay in the book. Stay in this book. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by what? Every word that proceeds from the mouth of God Stay in the book. What was it that Joshua was told when he began his ministry? This book you'll meditate in day and night? I mean immerse your immerse yourself in the Word of God. That'll keep the glory from departing. Um I I had this uh little thing about a day in the life of the Bible. You probably heard it. But it's it's a Bible who is speaking. He talks about how, well, you know, I went to church once this week. Then I laid on the coffee table Uh somebody picked me up and pressed some flowers in it. And it goes on and on like that, but look, that happens. This this book does not get used. The way it's supposed to get used, lots of times, does it? Um and we look, we need more than just three times a week I mean Sunday morning, Sunday night, prayer meeting night, that's all good. And we need that by the way, but we need more than that. We need it every day. Uh I don't know about you, but I like to eat every day. Sometimes more than once a day. More than twice a day. Uh and I I really need that spiritual food more than I need the physical food. Because it's more important, isn't it? And our spiritual life is much more important than our physical life. So what keeps the glory from departing? Stay in the book. Stay in the book. And I guarantee you, folks should get away from God and not been in the book. You know, you know, when you get out of sorts, you don't want to read the Bible, do you Why? Because it convicts, doesn't it? It tells you, it look it tells us when we're wrong, doesn't it? Nobody likes to be told they're wrong. But there are times when we need to be told we're wrong. In fact, we need to be told that a lot probably. And this book will tell it like it is You've heard this. This book will keep you from sin, but sin will keep you from this book. So what keeps the glory from department? Stay in the book. Stand the book. Keep our sins confessed. These are simple things, aren't they? But they're very important things. Keep our sins confessed. I I you know I know a pastor talked about a fellow that he met that said he hadn't sinned. Whole nature was re eradicated. Well, there was a fellow that told my brother he hadn't sinned in fifteen years So I'd make mistakes, but I don't sin. Well, I have a feeling his mistakes just plain old sin. Look, our own nature we're going to carry to the grave. It's not going to be eradicated. Now it'll be eradicated one of these days and get a new new body, glorified body. But until that time we're going to carry it around, aren't we? And uh so we need to keep our sins confessed. If we confess our sins, he's faithful, just to forgive us, cleanse us from all unrighteousness. There's not a day that goes by we don't have to claim that. Because every every day we are assailed from the world, the flesh, and the devil. Keep our sins confessed. Keep short accounts with God. You know, Hebrews warns us about the deceitfulness of sin. We're warned about of this. How is sin deceitful? Well, it can make you think it's not so bad. You know, sometimes there may be things that folks get involved in and they say, well, I can control that. Then after a while it's really not so bad And we're deceived. Oh, it's bad. It's worse than we think. Well, it's just a little sin. There are no little sins. They're all big sins. They're all transg they're all transgressions of God's law, aren't they? And uh so we get deceived If we're not careful. And then we want to justify it. Well, no I'm going to hold on to that. No, we need to keep our sins confessed. That'll keep the glory from departing. Stay in church. Very simple. Stay in church. Doesn't feel like going. Yeah, a lot of times you don't feel like going. But it you know, uh when my wife and I got saved, what, fifty-nine years ago Um I remember going to ch got saved on Sunday night. I remember prayer meeting night rolled around. We went to church Wednesday night. No, actually Thursday night back then. And um Sunday rolled around. We went to church There was a desire in my heart to go to church. Look, I never had that before I got saved. I didn't want to go to church. I didn't want to be around God's people. I was heading the other direction as hard as I could go. But when I got saved, I wanted to be in the house of God. And look, it's a good habit to establish Now, we're all we're all creatures of habit. We are. Uh we can have some bad habits that we need to get rid of, but we have we can establish some good habits too, and this is this is one of them I'm gonna be safe for in church. I'm gonna be there when the doors are open. Um I need to be there. I need it. I'm forgetful. And we are forgetful people. I think that's one of the things, you know, when when Peter wrote in 2 Peter, I put the put you in remembrance of these things. Why do you say that? Because we're forgetful. We need to be reminded. Need to be reminded on a on a weekly basis, don't we? That's why we come to church. So they'll keep the glory from departing Now that's not the total answer, but it's it's a good part of it because it puts us where we can hear this book priest talk. Live a separated life. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. Amen love the world. Love of the Father is not in him. All sin the world, lust of the eyes, lust of the flesh, pride of life. So the world it passes away, does it? Um we're we're not look, we are in the world, but we're not of it We're not of it, but we've been sent into it, you know, to be a witness. But God's going to take us out of it one of these days. And so he wants us. And by the way, when we talk about living a separated life, that means we're separated unto him. And because we're separated unto him, that means we are separated from some things, right? Live a separated life Keep right relationships with the brethren. Everybody here is different. No two of us are exactly alike. You've probably heard this. If you find two people who agree on everything, well, it's not thinking No two people are going to agree on everything. But we look in the house of God we can agree on the most on we can agree on the most important things, can't we? And get along and serve God. But somewhere along the line we're probably going to cross somebody. Well, what do we do when that happens? Get it right between ourselves We have a formula, the Bible tells us what to do. Keep a right relationship with the brethren. We're to love the brethren, aren't we? We may not like some things that people do, but we're to love them. Right? And we sometimes have to agree to disagree and go and serve the Lord. Keep right relationship. Be an active witness. Heard about that this morning. Render continual praise to God. We don't praise him enough, I think. And he's worthy of our praise. I um try to remember I probably don't sing it, but I try to remember the uh doxology when I get up in the morning. Praise God from whom all blessings flow. Praise Him all creatures here below. Praise Him above you heaven with us. Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. Amen. Kept me through the night. I woke up Got much to praise him for. He's worthy of our praise. That'll keep the glory from departing, constantly praising God. Reflect on past blessings. I don't know about you, but God seemed good to me. And I surely don't deserve it. If I got what I deserved, I'd be in hell a long time ago. But God was merciful. And he's been merciful all these years. Reflect on those past blessings. Resist the devil. Our adversary goes about as a roaring line, doesn't he, seeking whom he may devour. And not only that, he also comes as an angel of light sometimes. Recognize him, resist him, because we want God's blessings. And we don't want the glory to depart. Look, I don't want to see the glory depart from a church. I don't want to see the glory depart from any any Christian. I want to see God blessing. And uh what a what a sad story about Israel, isn't it? These are the people that were given the word They were given the prophets. Through them the Messiah came, all the blessings that we have, and yet look what happened. Turned her back on God and the glory departed. How sad But it's happened with churches today, and it's happened with Christians today. But here's the thing, it doesn't have to. It doesn't have to happen. We don't have to let it happen. Don't let the glory depart. Keep your eyes on the Lord. If we do these things, look, I believe that the glory will stay there. And we can live a glorious Christian life. Well, may the Lord add his blessing to his word tonight. And let's bow for prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you for the privilege we've had to be here. Thank you so much for your your word and thank you for uh the living word our Lord Jesus. Thank you for his death on Calvary for our sins. And and Lord I do pray uh again for all those here. You know what the needs are in hearts and lives. Pray should have you will and way now in an invitation. And Lord, for what you do, we'll give you all the thanks and the praise now in Jesus' master 's name. And for his sake we ask it. Amen.