I'm glad we have such a God as He to trust in. Well, I hope Mike and Aaron are listening this morning. We want to congratulate them on the birth of their little girl. Brooke Elizabeth. And she was seven pounds five ounces and twenty-one inches long. And thank the Lord she looks like her mama. So All is well. Amen. So we praise the Lord for that. Pray for them, if you would, please. And uh we appreciate the Lord's mercy and all of that. I want you to open your Bibles today to Luke chapter number six. Luke chapter number six. And I want to read one verse in your hearing. When you find your place, would you stand with me, please, as we honor the reading of God's precious word? Luke 6, verse 35. You'll notice the Bible says, but love ye your enemies. And do good and lend, hoping for nothing again. And your reward shall be great, and ye shall be the children of the highest. For he is kind unto the unthankful and to the evil. I want you to highlight that last phrase because it says so much about our God. The Bible says that he is kind unto the unthankful and to the evil. I want us to pray. Father, we bow again in Jesus' name, and we certainly stand in need of your help. Lord, both the preacher and the hearer. Needs thee. Lord, I pray that you would do for us what we cannot do for ourselves and have your way in this meeting. Lord, help us to see what thy word says. Open the eyes of our understanding, and may the Spirit of God be our teacher. Oh, Father, we love you and need you and look to you now and pray for your help in Jesus' strong name. And God's people said , Amen. You can be seated. I would not take lightly that last statement in Luke 6 35. There are truths in the Bible. That almost seem hidden away, but they're they're gold, they're treasures of great worth. And in this statement that our Lord makes concerning how we're to treat our enemies, the Lord says something about himself. Now, you can't get more authoritative than Luke 6. 35. Because this is God incarnate, God in flesh, speaking about God the Father. And he says he's kind. He's kind to the unthankful and to the evil. You know that little word kind, it caught my attention, and uh I looked the word up, and it means this: it means to be gracious. It also can mean to be benevolent. So, in other words, our Lord is gracious and giving Gracious in caring, gracious in showering his goodness on those that are unthankful and those that are evil. I don't know if that shocks you, but that sort of shocked me. That sort of took me a little bit off guard. And I wouldn't believe it had Jesus not been the one who said it. But the Lord Jesus said these words. And he said, God is kind to the unthankful and to the evil. You know, there are three categories of people in this text, and I'm going to highlight them here this morning. Remember what 1 Peter 2 verse 3 says? It says very simply that the Lord is gracious. Now, I don't know about you, but I'm glad God is what He is, regardless of what I am. What I am don't alter who He is. What I am and what I do doesn't touch who God is. God is what God is, and the Lord is gracious. Look at this verse, Romans chapter 2. Would you go over there real quick? Romans chapter number 2 and verse number 4. I want you to see something. It 's going to be a part of our study here in a moment, but think about what this verse says. Romans chapter 2. And verse 4 says Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long suffering? He's talking to the man that he says in verse 1, Thou art inexcusable, O man. And he's letting me know that, listen, there is a God in heaven who treats men with great goodness. In fact, he says his goodness is riches, the riches of his goodness. And then not only do we see the riches of his goodness, but his forbearance. If I can just put it in a very plain and simple way, he puts up with us. Now, you ever thought about what a mercy that is? And his long suffering. Then watch this. Not knowing, this is that inexcusable man, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance. God shows goodness to mankind for to bring him or her to a place of repentance towards God. God showers that goodness. Now think about this. Look over back in our text now and look at this group he calls unthankful. He calls them unthankful. These are those that do not acknowledge God nor his goodness. The Bible tells us that these are the unthankful that he's kind to. I'm going to call these individuals those that assume They assume. Do you know what a definition for the word assume is? It means take for granted. They just take for granted. They're unthankful. They take for granted. And can I say this about that? That number one, that is a sign of the last days. Do you realize that? Go over here in 2 Timothy real quick. And I want you to see these and tie all of these together. 2 Timothy chapter number 3 and verse 2. We're given a long list of the kind of people that will live in the last days. He says in verse 1, this know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. But verse 2 says, men shall be lovers of their own selves. And by the way, that's our greatest sin against God. We're lovers of our own selves. We're covetous, boasters, proud , blasphemers, disobedient to parents. What's the next word? Unthankful, unholy. These are signs of the times These are signs that the Lord said. Look among the general population. Look among the greater number of people, the vast majority. And you know what you will find? You will find that men are unthankful. Matthew Henry said, the ungodly are usually ungrateful. George Whitfield wrote that it is a mark of a man estranged from God if he refuses to give God thanks. It's a sign of the last days. Can I ask you this? When's the last time you were in a restaurant and you saw someone bow their head and give thanks? Some of you are old enough that that was common practice. You remember a day when people were out to eat And you would look across a restaurant, and it was not unusual to see uh almost everyone bow their head and thank the Lord for their food. Now some Christians won't even do it. Or I should say professing Christians. Some who claim that name are too embarrassed to bow their head and stop and thank the Lord for his goodness. It's a sign of the times I'm talking about those that are unthankful. Number two, it's a sin against God. Listen, understand, this isn't just a slip, it's a sin. This isn't a slip in our memory, it's a sin. You know what James said? James in chapter number one, and I believe it's verse number 17, said, every good and perfect gift. Comes from above. Where does it come? Comes down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. My Bible commands me in everything to give thanks Our Bible commands us to be a thankful people, to give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good. And to fail to do that, dear brother, sister in Christ, is a sin against a holy God. We're talking about this group that are unthankful. God says here he's kind to them. And I want to say this before I move on. It's a shame. It's not only a sign and a sin, but it's a shame to be unthankful. It's a shame to always take and never give thanks. You think about this. A man gets up in the morning, got a reasonable measure of health and strength, takes a deep breath, and breathes in God's oxygen. Sets down at a table supplied with food and fills his stomach and prepares for the day and marches out to work, a job All under the goodness and favor and kindness of God He goes about his work day and comes home tired to a home with a roof over his head and sits down, perhaps in a comfortable chair. And rest from a long weary day, once again taken in multiple hours of the goodness of God He'll lay his head down on a pillow at night with a belly full, and maybe a body tired, but somewhere to rest and somewhere to live, and perhaps family all around him. And yet, my friend, never look up to the God of heaven that blessed him and say thank you. Is that not a shame? Is that not a shame to take for granted the goodness of God? You may be sitting here saying God's not been good to me, and I would say I disagree. Your course might have been different and difficult. Perhaps there might have been deviations and danger along the way, but there is still a God in heaven who's been very good to you. Truth is, he's better to us than we deserve. He's good to us. No wonder David said in Psalm 107, verse 31, oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness. For his wonderful works to the children of men. This morning you were greeted with a sunrise that God set in place. That's his goodness. Today you met mercies that are new every morning. That's God's goodness. Today, my friend, you're living on this side of eternity. If you're not a believer, you're living on this side of eternity. You've got one less day to be in hell. That's God's goodness. It's God's goodness to you to let you breathe his air, live on his earth, eat his food, drink his water, and enjoy his goodness. Don't be a an assumer. God owes me. Friend, God don't owe you anything. And God certainly doesn't owe me anything. But yet, hear the word of God and let it do its deep work in you. He's kind. To the unthankful. What if he took everything you failed to thank him for? Would you have anything left? Have you ever thought about if he just said, okay, you didn't thank me for it, so I'm gonna take it back. Look, I'm looking at a lot of people that I'm sure were raised in this way. You were taught to say thank you. And your parents instructed you, they instilled in you an appreciation for things done. And they said, say thank you. I can still hear one of my sisters telling one of her children to say thank you, and he was an ornery little thing, and he refused to say thank you. And he stood there with his little mouth closed and his little fist clenched around whatever it was. It was something my mother had given And he wouldn't say thank you. So my sister reached down there, snatched it out of his hand, give it back to to my mother. Now, I don't know what happens between parenthood and grandparenthood. But that same parent that would light you on fire for not saying thank you says, oh, they're little. Don't make them do that. I don't know that there's some grandparents probably need spankins as much as there are grandchildren that need them, but that's another story. But you know something. If God took and listen, He don't. That's his kindness. I I don't know about you, but there are things sometimes we don't say thank you for, but listen, if they were missing, we sure would. We would know it. He's kind. Do you see that? He's kind to the unthankful. Let me notice a second category here. The Bible calls these evil. He's kind to the unthankful. And watch this, and to the evil. He wants us to know these are more than assumers. These are more than just those that take for granted. These are individuals that are deliberately devious. I'm going to call them abusers. They abuse the gift of life that God has granted to them by using it for the devil's purposes. They're evil. You know what's sad? And I see in this text something really sad. Man made in the image of God marred by sin. Here they are. They're marred. 2 Timothy 3 verse 13 says, evil men will wax worse and worse. Deceiving and being deceived. Another sign of the last days. And as evil men multiply, the kindness of God is magnified God 's judgment doesn't fall swiftly. It comes surely, but it does not fall swiftly. If God, what did the prophet say? If God were to mark iniquity, who would stand? If God immediately gave each of us the judgment deserved, the just wages of sin, well, Romans chapter 6 tells us that the wages of sin is death. And so imagine with me what it would be like if God did that. But it's a sad thing to see man marred by sin. Friends, sin mars men. If you don't believe that, you look at our world as it reels and rocks under just degradation. And you can put over the top of every bit of it. S-I -N. It's sin. Why are we in the shape we're in? Sin. Sin 's the problem. We can talk about the moral problem. We can talk about the financial problem. We can talk about the the political problem. We can talk about any problem you want to talk about, and every single bit of it goes back to one little thing. It's called sin. The Bible tells us death entered because one man sinned. And death passed upon all men, for all have sinned. Sin is a universal plague. It's a universal plague. No man escapes it. We're all born in it. You know, as precious as that little baby, that newborn baby is, little brook And sweet. And you look at her and you think, how in the world could she be a sinner? But she is. You know why? Because her daddy's a sinner. He's a sinner because his dad was a sinner. And on and on we go until we get back to Adam and Eve. And when Adam and Eve sinned against God, they brought sin into the bloodstream of the human race, and men are fallen by nature. We're sinners by birth. We're sinners by practice. We choose to sin against God. And listen, my friends, sin will mar what God intended for you to be. I see not only something sad here, but I see something that's alarming. We might use the word scary. If you'll go over to Hebrews chapter 10, Paul gets very plain here in this verse. Well, let me read a few of them, beginning in verse 28. Hebrews chapter 10 and verse number 28. Here's something that ought to alarm us this morning. The Bible says that he that despised Moses' law. Now, Moses ' law was God's law. Because Moses got the law from God, right? It wasn't the finger of Moses that wrote the Ten Commandments, it was the finger of God It's the law of God. Now, he said that he that despised Moses ' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses, without mercy. Look at verse 29 of how much sore punishment. Suppose ye shall he be thought worthy who hath trodden underfoot the Son of God. And hath counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified, an unholy thing, and hath done despite unto the Spirit of Grace. For we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense, saith the Lord. And again, the Lord shall judge his people. It is a fearful thing. Do you hear that? Verse 31. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. It's a fearful thing. I think the concept we have today of God is just some benevolent, and I say this with great caution, but benevolent elderly grandfather in heaven who winks at sin and lets evil go on. That's not God. That may be the God that comforts some individual sin plague life, but I've got news for you. He is a God of judgment. And the Bible says it's a fearful thing. Listen, friend, you know people say he got away with that, he got by with that. Nobody gets by with anything. Do you realize that? There's coming a day of judgment. There is coming a day when men and women will face God in their evil. And you know something the Bible says here that it ought to it ought to scare us. It ought to be a fearful thing for you and I to understand That when an evil man falls in the hands of a living God, what does he hear? Well, my Bible says in Revelation 21, he's going to hear, depart from me, I never knew you. He's going to hear those utter, those words uttered from the lips of God who makes eternal decrees And no amount of pleading and no amount of persuading and no amount of arguing and no amount of objecting. Listen, it doesn't matter if the hosts of heaven band together and say, No, Lord, please, Lord, don't, Lord, stop, Lord. It's not going to prevent that man from being cast into the lake of fire for all of eternity Do you understand how serious a thing it is? But I want you to see something that is even more shocking. That God is kind to the evil. In that text in Romans chapter 2, he talks about that inexcusable man who knows something about the forbearance and the long-suffering and the rich goodness of God. All of that is shown to him in his lifetime. You remember that rich man that died and went to hell And our Bible talks about how he fared sumptuously every day. You know what? He enjoyed the rich goodness of God. He not only had rich goodness, but he had a constant witness. Do you know laying at his gates was a saved man? And that man was a constant witness of the grace and mercy of God. And that man would have pointed that rich man to Jesus and pointed him to salvation by grace and through faith. That man was a witness at his gate daily And my friend, I want to remind you of something that God was good to that man all his life long. That man was breathing air he didn't deserve He was living on mercies that he did not appreciate or recognize. But there came a day when the door shut on all of that. Just like when Noah got in the ark and God shut the door, the opportunity to be saved was passed. The opportunity for mercy was gone. And my friend, can I say to you, if you find yourself in this number called evil. Can I remind you that you say, hey, I've lived thirty years this way. I've lived forty-five years this way. I've lived my whole life like this and nothing's happened yet. You ought to get on your knees and thank God that you're not in hell already, that He's showed you mercy thus far, and He's let you live this long. There may be some up in years unsaved. And can I say to you, you're living on mercy? The Bible says three score and ten, and if by reason of strength four. That's 80 years. You may be past 70. You may be nearing 80. You may be past 80. You're living on just simply mere goodness from God. That's keeping you on this side of eternity. He's keeping you out of the flames of hell and giving you an opportunity to be saved. Know something about this. God is good to the evil, He's kind to the evil. And I'm I'm going to say to you, friend, if you're not saved, repent. Get saved. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Abandon your sin and evil and turn from your wicked way. Find mercy in the Lord Jesus. I wouldn't walk to Jesus. I'd run to him. You don't have time to play games. God could roll the curtain back and let us see. I'm glad He don't. You know, remember when you were young and you man, I wish I could just see the future. On this side of much of my future, I'm glad I couldn't see it. There's a whole lot, I'm glad snuck up on me Anybody else with me on that? There's a whole lot I'm glad I didn't know was coming ahead of time, or I'd have had a nervous breakdown before it ever hit. Just anticipating. But you don't know, and I don't know. I was thinking the other day for some reason, I've conducted funerals everywhere from three days old To ninety-seven years old. And they put near every number in between. Death doesn't have a particular age. There's no set mark that says you're going to get to live this long. None of us know the length of time we've got. But my friend, if you're living as an evil man, or maybe you're living even as an assuming man, an individual that's just taking for granted God's goodness, either way you're in the same condition. You need to be saved. You need to recognize that a way has been made for you to escape the penalty of sin. The wages of sin is death, but thank God for the butts in the Bible. The gift of God is eternal life Through Jesus Christ our Lord. I'm not asking you to join this church. You can be a member of this church and spend forever in hell I'm not asking you to get in the waters of baptism. You can go down a dry center and come out a wet one. I'm not talking about doing religious good deeds or exercises. I'm talking about with the heart, man believing unto righteousness, with the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. I'm talking about trusting in the only one who can save you from hell. That's Jesus. He's our only hope and plea. Please hear a word of warning. Please hear the Lord say, I'm kind to you. You open your eyes and you're alive tomorrow morning. Remember this, it's because God's been kind to you. And I believe He's giving you a little window. A little space of grace. He's given you an opportunity to get in. He's given you. Do you know? I don't think Noah Would have taken a hundred years to build the ark. I I I don't think it it was because of a lack of skill or a lack of material, or a lack of drive, or a lack of enthusiasm. I mean, surely in 50 years he could have got it done. He had the two sons helping him and their daughters. And I'll tell you what, I've seen some women that could work circles around men. And I'll tell you what, they could they I'm sure it wouldn't have taken. But you know what those hundred years were about? Mercy. Hundred years of mercy. God was giving them one more day, one more opportunity, one more window, one more chance. How many more is God going to give you? How many more are you going to get and take and take it for granted? How many more are you going to say, well, I just lived another day? My friend, one of these days all that's going to be over. Understand that he's kind. He's kind to the unthankful. He's kind of the evil. Now there's one more group in this text. He calls them the children of the highest. I'm going to call these those individuals who appreciate what God's done. They're not assumers. They don't take for granted. They're not abusers. They're not living evil, ungodly lives, but they appreciate their children of the highest. They're what we call saved. By the way, notice how different they are? Do you notice how different they are? They love their enemies. That's what Jesus told them to do. They do good. And they lend expecting nothing in return. You'll never convince me that salvation doesn't equal change. Somebody gets born again, God does something in their heart, it'll make them different. Now, they may not be immediately what God intends for them to be, but they certainly aren't what they once were. They were dead in trespasses and sin. Now they're alive in God. They were lost and undone and hellbound. Now they're saved and on their way to heaven. They're changed. They're different. And my friend, listen, God's people live different. This gospel that's being preached today that says a man can be saved in love and live in sin is a false gospel. A man will not love sin that has been saved from sin. For God changes his attitude towards sin. He changes his nature about sin. If you're saved here this morning, what does sin do to you? It grieves you. You know why it grieves you? Because you love him. You love him. You know why it hurts you when maybe somebody you love does you wrong? Because you love them. How many of you had an enemy do you wrong? Well, some of you ain't lived or something. I don't know. You're asleep one. And it didn't grieve you that bad. Why? Because you expected it. You expected it. They're your enemy. How many of you have had somebody you love do your own? That hurt you, didn't it? That wounded you. You know why? Because you loved them. You love them. Little John wrote 1 John in the l the little letter of John, he said we love him because he first loved us. And we love him. And you know what a byproduct of love is? Is it grieves us when we do him wrong. It grieves us when we sin against God. Hey, brother, sister, say people are different. We're called to be different. We're not like the assumers who say Uh Lord, I'm just going to take for granted your goodness. Or the abusers who just eat it up like they would food or drink it up like they do water and forget about it. Listen, we're saved by grace, and here's what we know. Everything we got comes from his hand. Every good thing that we enjoy is a gift from God Almighty. Every little breath in your lung beat in your heart is a gift from the Lord. And we say, oh God, thank you for it. We sure appreciate it. We don't deserve it, but we're grateful that you remembered to grant it. You see the saved, and by the way, the saved are called to show something here. In 1 Peter 2, verse 9, the Bible says, But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. A holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praise of Him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. You know how we do that? By being thankful. We show his praises. We show he's worthy I don't know why I thought of this this morning. I hadn't thought of it in a long time. When I first got right with God, I I had a burning desire to tell people about the Lord, but I was as backward as you can imagine. I was scared to talk to people. I was afraid of people. I I remember as a little boy my family would come for like Thanksgiving and I'd hit the trail. Where would you go? I'd go to the barn. I'd hide in the the barn loft, hay loft, and I'd go up there and wait until all that crowd left. It's just too many people, too much. And I was afraid one of them would say something to me. You know, they might expect me to answer something. And so it's best just to go hide. But I had a burning in my heart. Man, these pe people need the Lord And God put it there. And I said, Lord, you're going to have to help me. I don't know how to talk to people. And the Lord reminded me, He said, Can you give thanks? I'll never forget praying one morning. And the Lord said, Can you give thanks? I'd gotten a job in a hardware store, and boy, I'll tell you, a lot of good come out of that hardware store. I never got much money out of it, but I got a wife out of it, and that was a good thing. Amen. But I s I remember the first thing the fella it was an old gentleman come in, he bought something, it was heavy, and he needed help carrying it to the car. And I went outside and I and I I'd been thinking about this. I wanted to talk to him about the Lord. I didn't know how. And I just blurted out, I'm thankful for sunshine. And that old man looked at me like I'd lost my mind. He said, Okay. Oh, that didn't work like I thought it would So, you know, he's a little slow getting around and he got finally got the the trunk up on his old car and I put the th whatever it was in there. I can't remember, I think it was a bag of fertilizer. Threw it in there and and he shut the the trunk and I said, you know, I just thank the Lord that I'm alive today. And he said, Have you got something to say? Now thankfully he was saved already. I think he knew what was going on. Aren't you glad the Lord puts all that together for you? He knew what was going on. And I quickly learned that a lot of times you say, Lord, I I just I'd say, I'm thankful. Thankful we're getting a little rain. Thank the Lord we're getting a little rain. And if somebody was saved, almost immediately they would recognize that and they would start saying, you know, I thank the Lord too. He's so good to me, and it wouldn't be long till you get around to their testimony, and they'd tell you about how they got saved. Talking about an open door here of showing forth the praises of him that have called us out of the darkness into his marvelous light. Thanksgiving shows or expresses the marvelous light of the grace of God and salvation. I want to close with this. You remember back in Luke 17? Maybe turn there just a minute. And I see a single individual in my text doing what we all should do. Luke chapter 17, verse number 11. It came to pass as he went to Jerusalem that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered into a certain village, there met him Ten men. Will you say that with me? Ten men that were lepers which stood afar off. And they lifted up their voices and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go, show yourselves unto the priest. And it came to pass that as as they went, they were cleansed. Now how many of them were there? There were ten men. And all ten of them got clean. They got cleansed from leprosy. Now remember, leprosy was a death sentence. You got leprosy, you're gonna die. It was gonna be a slow, miserable, suffering death if you had leprosy in that day. There was no cure. There were no medicines. It was just simply exile and wait. until you're extinguished in death. And yet Jesus cleansed the He healed these ten men. Notice what the Bible says. Verse 15, and one. You say that with me? And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back and with a loud voice glorified God. Fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks, and he was a Samaritan. Don't you see something Jesus said? Verse 17, and Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? Our Lord marveled at the ungratefulness of the nine. I cleansed ten. I healed ten. Why just one? That's a whole message in itself. But can I challenge you this morning? Be the one. Just be the one. Be the one who says, Lord, I want to thank you for saving me from my sin. Be the one that expresses thankfulness on purpose. Listen, you're not born thankful. You'll never just magically be thankful. If you're thankful, it's because you purpose in your heart to be thankful. You're not going to get up in the morning and magically say, Oh, it's almost Thanksgiving. I'm so thankful. Your old nature is like my old nature. It's fallen corrupt and deceived. And we tend to take a lot for granted unless we say, God, I'm not going to do that. I'm going to thank you. I'm going to purposefully thank you. Thank you, that hymn we were singing. Did you notice that? Thank you. Thanks for pain and thanks for pleasure. That's thanking God on purpose. That's thanking God deliberately. Here they are, and there's ten that are cleansed, only one comes back, and I figure that's about the odds today. But don't be the nine, be the one. Be the one. The children of the highest are thankful. Can I ask you a question? Where do you fit now? Where do you fit? Are you an assumer? You just take for granted the goodness of God without ever regarding the fact that it came from his hand You might attribute it to something or another, but the truth of the matter is it's from him. Are you evil? Are you among those that sin has marred and marked? I've got news for you today, friend. He loves you. There's mercy for you. There's salvation in the Lord. You may, listen, you may live that way now, but you don't have to be that way forever. Do you realize we're quickly getting to the place to where what you are you'll be for all of eternity? We're getting near to that place where where let him that is evil be evil still, let him that is just be just still. There's going to be a decree for all of time and eternity that where the line is drawn, what you are is what you'll be. And if you're lost, what a tragedy it would be to be lost forever. You can be saved today, though. There's good news. The good news is Christ died for your sin. He was buried, and on the third day he conquered death. Got up out of the grave, gives eternal life to whosoever will. Oh beloved, he died to save you. He lives to rescue and redeem old sinners. Thank God for Jesus. Maybe you're sitting here religious. You're religious as a day is long. That's not going to get you to heaven You've crossed every T and dotted every I and joined every church and been baptized in every manner, but the only way to get to heaven is through Jesus He's still the way, the truth, and the life, and no man's going to come to the Father but by him. Friend, he's it. He's it. He's the only way. You need to be saved. You're living on goodness, the goodness of God But please don't think it'll last forever. God will always be good. But God's goodness towards you has a deadline. That deadline is called death. And as it is appointed unto men once to die. And after this the judgment. And dear Christian friend, brother and sister in the Lord. May we be more and more pleasing to the Lord in this way. And thank him for everything. Give him thanks. Be the children of the highest. Be different. Stand out. You know something? Have you ever noticed anymore? That when you say thank you out in public, sometimes people look at you weird. We were in a distant place, we'll say, and uh we were shocked by the kindness of people in this facility. And I thought for a minute, it made me feel uneasy because I'm used to This world where generally, you know, people have their head down, their eyes closed, and their mouth shut. And you don't mess with them, they don't mess with you. But when they talk to you and they smile, I start thinking, what are they getting ready to do? Rob me? I'm just kind of backing up, you know. Just a little makes me a little bit uneasy. But you know something? You can really stand out as a child of God. Don't give thanks to the Mother Earth. She don't exist. Give thanks to God in heaven, the Father of lights, who's Lord of everything. Give thanks to God. Do it boldly and do it In such a way that you point to the Lord Jesus who loved you and gave himself for you. God help us to be thankful. Would you stand with me, please? Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed.