Please and turn to Philippians chapter three, and when you find your place if you would stand. And we're reading here the words of the Apostle Paul who Met the Lord Jesus on the road to Damascus. They're recorded for us in Acts chapter 9. And truly, in the life of the Apostle Paul, you can see that all things change when Jesus comes this day. Because he changed the life of the Apostle Paul. He was a religious zealot, he was a persecutor of Christians, he was a hater, by his own testimony, of people who were in that way. And he hated that way. And then lo and behold, when he met the Lord, he became a preacher of that way. And he got in that way. And it was because the Lord changed his life. I want you to see what he wrote here in Philippians 3, and I'm going to read the first twelve verses. Philippians chapter 3, verse 1 Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, to me indeed is not grievous. But for you it is safe. Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision, for we are the circumcision which worship God in the Spirit And rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh. Though I might also have confidence in the flesh, If any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more. Circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, and Hebrew of the Hebrews. As touching the law, a Pharisee. Concerning zeal, persecuting the church. Touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. But what things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ. Yea, doubtless, and I count all things but loss, for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord For whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ And be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead. Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect. But I follow after, if that I may apprehend that, for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. I'm going to stop reading there this morning. I want you to pay attention to verse number 10, and especially to those first five words, that I may know him. Those are powerful words. They uh I'm glad they're more than words. They're the burning heart of this apostle. The book of Philippians is the most personal letter Paul wrote. It's the most personal letter that he pinned. We learn things about him here that we don't learn anything anywhere else. And we learn something of the key to his Christian life. We find out why he was what he was. This is what made him tick, and I believe it is found, and it's summarized in these five words, that I may know him. And I want to preach this morning, the Lord helping me on knowing Him. Father God, we bow again in Jesus' name. And we're thankful for the privilege that we have to be able to call upon you. And as we bow, we humbly ask, Lord, help. Lord, help us to have more than just a routine service and go through a mere motion. And our desire, O Lord, is that we might know you. Help us to know you. Help us to know you more. Lord, would you speak to us there personally and collectively? Lord, I thank you that when you speak, it's always practical. I pray your will be done in this meeting. May Christ be exalted. Lord, in these moments would you in mercy empty me of me and fill me with you, hide me behind the cross, and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus, for it's in his precious name I pray. And God's people said Amen. You can be seated. Well, Wednesday night we looked at five words from Psalm 23. Those five words, I believe, are the key to the whole psalm. The Lord is my shepherd. And if properly read, we should read those five words before every statement It's interesting to me that in these five words in Philippians chapter 3, I believe we can read them before each statement here in verse number 10. Let me show you what I'm saying here. That I may know him and the power of his resurrection. That I may know him and the fellowship of his sufferings. That I may know him being made conformable unto his death. You see what it's all about? It's all about knowing him. That I may know him. Now, friends, we're not talking about facts and figures. We're not talking about just mere statements and doctrinal beliefs. We're talking about a personal acquaintance with a very real God. Nobody knew the Bible maybe as well as Paul did. I'm talking about the Old Testament. When the Apostle Paul was saved as a Pharisee, he would have committed at least the first five books of the Old Testament to his memory. The first five books, that's Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, and he had them all five memorized. He said, according to the law, he's blameless He lived in accordance to the law of God. You could not find wrong in the law of God in the life of the Apostle Paul in that sense. He lived according to the law. But because he was a Pharisee, they had laws upon laws. And so they went to the nth degree in keeping the laws that they had created. And so you could very safely say That in a moral sense, Paul lived a clean life. Paul lived a life that you would look at from the outside and say he's an upright man. He's obviously keeping the law. He's obviously a zealous follower of the Old Testament. But yet there was something in Paul's life that just wasn't there. There was something missing. And as he made the way, as he made his way down the road to Damascus, I'm reminded of these words that when the Lord spoke to him, struck him blind, brought him to the ground, he said, Who art thou, Lord? He had a knowledge of the scriptures. He had a knowledge of the standard. He had a knowledge of the righteous judgments. But he did not know God. But he came to know him on the road to Damascus. When the question was answered, Jesus said, I am Jesus. I am Jesus. He said, who art thou? He said, I am Jesus. Paul, I'm that one who walked this earth for 33 and a half years. I'm that one. who they nailed on the cross. I'm that one who shed his blood on Calvary. I'm that one they put in Joseph's barred tomb. I'm that one that emptied the grave. I'm that one that they preached in Jerusalem. I'm that one that you've been persecuting. I am He. Paul lived the rest of his life with this driving passion that I may know him. Can I say to you, dear Christian brother and sister, everything else falls short? Now you can pursue things in your Christian life that may be appealing for a time. You can pursue a name, you can pursue a p a title, you can pursue a position, you can pursue a reputation, you can pursue all those things, but none of them will satisfy the deep longings of your heart like getting to know him. That I may know him. Paul wasn't interested in fitting in among the brethren. Paul wasn't interested in pleasing the populace. uh of the day. Paul wasn't even concerned about making the rest of the apostles happy. He just wanted to know Christ. He said, I want to know him. That was the driving passion of his life. I want to give you these four things. I don't know how far we'll get, but we'll do our best. I want you to see in my text today a personal relationship. A potent reality, something that's pleasantly refreshing, and a process that's required. I want you to start with me by looking at this personal relationship. This is where it all starts. This is where it all starts. Without this You're you're stuck sort of at home base. You can't go any further, he says, that I may know him. Now Paul knew the Lord in salvation. He had met him on the road to Damascus. By the way Let me say this, salvation doesn't automatically occur just because you're born to a Christian mother or father. Salvation doesn't come your way because you attend the right church. Salvation isn't yours because you're born in this great country of the United States of America. Salvation comes when you meet the Lord Jesus in a personal way. Salvation is not condensed to a mere prayer that is prayed. Salvation is not deduced to the just a belief that you have in your head. Salvation is not something that one just merely can be gifted or be granted from an ecclesiastical body, from a church authority. uh uh from a religious ceremony, from waters of baptism, lighting candles, or whatever other thing you may trust. Salvation is of the Lord and comes from the Lord, and you've got to meet him personally as an individual Let me ask you, have you met the Lord? Have you met the Lord? I don't want to know if you're a member of the church. I don't want to know if you've prayed certain prayers. Here's what I want to know. Have you met the Lord? When Paul got up off his knees, he was blind in his eyes, but he had the eyes of his heart open. When he got up off his knees and they led him down to Damascus and he met Ananias there, And he prayed for him. He couldn't see physically for a while, but he could see spiritually like he'd never seen before. He knew who the Lord was. He went down saying, Who art thou, Lord? He got up saying, He's Jesus. And it wasn't long until after he got his sight back that he began to preach about this Jesus and tell what great things he had done. You know why? Because he knew him Do you know him? Have you met him? You know something it's not it some people think salvation's one of these things that sneak up on you and get you before you even know you've been got That's not salvation. Salvation is the reality of knowing God in the free pardon of sin through the person of Jesus Christ. It's knowing. Do you know him? Have you met the Lord? I wouldn't listen, friend, I be careful about this thing of the substitutes the devil sells. Do you know he's a very slick salesman? You ever met someone that could sell you something you didn't want and pay for it more than you wanted to just because they were so slick? The only car I ever bought, the only new car uh that I ever bought I bought it in that way and that fellow was so slick he could have I believe he could have sold you anything. And I'll never forget I I didn't go there to buy a car, I went to look, and we're we drive off in this thing, and I get home, I'm thinking, what did we just do? That fella, I'm telling you, he could have sold anything. He had that ability. And let me tell you something, the devil's even better than that. The devil will show you a bill of goods. The devil will show you anything if you'll but bite and take the bait. Listen, and he's subtle. What are you trusting in? I like what the old hymn says: my faith has found a resting place, not in device nor creed. I trust the ever-living one, his wounds for me shall plead. I need no other argument. I need no other plea. It is enough that Jesus died and that he died for me. Where's your faith this morning? Do you know him? Is your faith in the Lord? Is your faith in the person of Jesus Christ? A lot of times we trust things that are perhaps good in form, but not in function. You say, what are you talking about? I'm afraid sometimes we're led to believe that if we pray a certain prayer, then we'll be saved. Please show me the Bible for that. What did the precious Lord say when he prayed to his father? John 17, verse number 3, this is life eternal. Now listen, Jesus is telling you what eternal life is, and he doesn't say it's a prayer. He says, this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. Salvation is not bound up in a prayer. Salvation is not bound up in a plan. You say, well, I've taken the Romans' road. Well, the Roman's road has a destination. You know what the destination is? Jesus. The Roman's road will take you to Jesus. I'm not decrying the Roman's road. It's a wonderful tool, but it will take you somewhere. It's not the substitute. It's not to be uh the the replacement. Sometimes we say, well this will do in the place of I don't know who ever decided that you could replace sugar. I'm gonna tell you I've yet to taste the replacement. Have I got anybody else that agree with me? I've yet to taste a replacement. I mean you can replace it. You can replace it with stevia. You can replace it with all those other things, but but nothing just has the the the the kick that sugar has. The it just doesn't do the job. And my friend, there's a lot of things we try to put in the place of salvation, and sometimes the devil's so subtle we don't even realize he's doing it. The devil is so subtle in his salesmanship that he sells us the bill of goods. And we say things like that, well, I know I'm a Christian because I prayed the sinner's prayer. Which version? Every sinner who's saves prayed. But not every sinner who's prayed prayed the same prayer I read of a sinner who said, Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner. I read of a sinner who said, Remember me. Two different prayers, same destination. Two different words, uh wordings of their prayers, but he took them to the same person. My point is this, my friend, don't let the devil substitute you say, Well, I know I'm a Christian because I'm a member of the church. Friend, that's a far cry from being born again. You can be a member of the church. You can have your name on the roll here, and it be absent from the one in heaven. Do you know him? That's what Paul said. I know him. And and yet I want you to see something. It's not an end-all. To get saved is not just the end. It's really a beginning. How many of you know you didn't know what you was getting into when you got saved Now look, you don't have to know everything before you become a Christian. I'm afraid sometimes we think that we've got to have every doctrine figured out. And every everything in the Bible understood before we can really trust Christ. Well, you'll die before that happens. But I'll tell you what, you can know the Lord. You can know him. I mean really know him. I'm not talking about knowing about him, but really getting to know the Lord. How many of you have been been married? 20 plus years. Would you raise your hand? You've been married 20 plus years? How many have been married 40 plus years? Would you raise your hand? How many have been married 50 plus years? Well, I didn't lose a whole lot of you there. Can I ask you a question, an honest question? Do you know that person better now than you did the day you said I do? I bet you know things you never thought you'd know. I bet you know some things that blew your way I mean I'm I'm pretty sure that when you said I do you thought they were all look, they they're perfect. And do you remember the painful discovery that you didn't marry a perfect person? That your wife's not perfect? You're kind of, oh no, Pastor, I I believe they're perfect. Well, hold on a while. You'll figure out and if we'll just be honest, look, if we'll just be honest we all have warts. Just be real But you know them. Now you you you got to know you said I do. You made a commitment I liken that to being saved. When you get saved, you made a commitment, and Christ made a commitment to you. Now you're not saved, but you're a commitment to Him. We're kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last day. I'm not kept because I'm faithful. I'm kept because he's faithful. My salvation rests in his strong hand, not in my scrawny ones. But there was a point. It had to start. It began. There was a place of decision. There was a place where you identified with the Lord Jesus, where you received him as your personal Savior. And as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. You weren't born believing. You weren't born believing. I talked to someone not long ago, I said, how long you've been a Christian? Here's what they said. I've always believed. That's not true. Now you might have believed something about the Lord for as long as you've been alive, but you've not always believed right about the Lord since you've been alive. You've not always believed. There's a point in time, there's a place, there's a moment you can go back to. You may not remember the place or You may not remember uh the the the the details i i in in every little aspect, but there ought to be uh a point of time where you believed on the Lord Jesus to the saving of your soul. And that's a precious point in life. When you got to know him. And you can sit here today, not with arrogance, but with confidence that I know him, I know him. Like Paul said, I know whom I have believed. I know I believe. I know there's a point where I believed on the Lord Jesus Christ. And I know him. But that's just the opening of the door. Because there's a whole lot more to know. That I may know him. He said, look, I know him, but I really want to know him. I want to know him. And the mind-boggling thing about the Lord is that all of time is not long enough for you to know who he is. In his fullness. And I don't believe all of eternity will be either. Heaven's not a listen, we we talk about heaven and A lot of people we have these ideas about heaven. The Bible says we'll know as we're known. The Bible says we'll we'll we'll see him. We'll be like him. But I'll tell you, I wonder if heaven is not going to be a place of eternal discovery of the greatness of the Lord Jesus as we come to know Him. As we begin to understand who he is. We're talking about this this morning, Dr. Hitch is talking about the discoveries and and it seems like the more we discover, the more we understand we don't know what's out there. And can you imagine an eternity? All we're going to do is scratch the surface. Listen, we've only scratched. Some of you have been saved 30, 40, maybe 50 or longer years. And yet you've only scratched the surface. The more you get to know him, the more you realize you don't know him, and the greater he is to you. That I may know him. There's no boredom in him. People get bored with Christianity because they don't have Christ. They get bored with Christianity because they accept the cheap substitutes. They get bored with Christianity because they're stuck in the dullness. They're like Vance Habner said, they're in in the rut. You know what a rut is. It's a grave with both ends knocked out. That's all it is. It's a r it's a line of death And listen, you know why people get bored? Because they don't know him and they're not pursuing to know him. But Paul said this that I may know him. That's a personal relationship. Can I say something about that? Just three things quickly. Number one, it was his driving passion. From the moment he asked the question, Who art thou, Lord? Until he uttered his last words, it drove him forward. You know why Paul didn't give up and quit when they left him in the sea to die? Because he wanted to know him. You know why when they took him out and stoned him and left him for dead and he got up and went back preaching? Because he wanted to know him. It was a driving passion. Paul understood that there was one thing that he lived for, and that was to know the Lord. Please, church, don't substitute anything for this. There's a million and one things. You could be a good Sunday school teacher and say, my position is important, my class is important, and all of that's important, but there's something, pardon the bad English, that's important too. It's to know him You can want to be a lot of things and do a lot of things and have a lot of listen, but don't substitute this thing of knowing him. The ministry can be a a a substitute for knowing the Lord personally Whatever form ministry may take. Whatever place you may serve, your service can be a place of substitute. That can be a substitute. for knowing the Lord. All of these things can get in the way and and what's been meant for good the devil can use for evil and it becomes the thing you live on. I remember hearing an old preacher say to me, his body was broke, he had had a stroke, he couldn't hardly talk uh with with plainness to the point that he could not preach anymore. And he said this, he said, What am I going to do? I d I I don't know what else he said, I that's all I've lived for. Now I understand that to some degree. I understand that being the driving passion of his heart. But listen, when my lips are silenced and when my body succumbs to uh the the age or illness or whatever, I can still know my Lord. I can still get to know him. It's not about what I do for him. It's what he's doing in me. It's the revelation of himself in my life. And friend, listen, that I may know him. That's the most important thing in the world, if you will. It was a driving passion in Paul's life. But not only that, it was the directing principle. You look at verse 8. He said, Look, I count everything. He said, I count them dung, that I may win Christ. That's strong language. That's very strong language. Paul's saying it's just refuse. It's nothing. That's all it is. It's nothing. He said it's dung. Why? I want to win crossed. It was the directing principle. What made him leave Judaism, Jesus? That's what made him leave Judaism. Do you realize what he left? Paul had one of the most powerful positions in his day. Being a member of Sanhedrin, he was elevated to a position not of great, only power, but it was the place of great prophet. Paul was a wealthy man in the beginning. I he left it all. He left it all. He had a position. He he was popular. Listen, you who who would be more popular than the man who's out there killing your enemy? I mean he was leading the charge. And he left all of that church, he left all of that praise, and he left all of that applause, and he left all of that that prophet, and he left that position of power. I'm telling you what, when the Sanhedrin spoke At least in Jerusalem and the greater part of Israel, buddy, they they acted. It was a power they were a powerful body of men. They held great authority in that day And Paul was among that number. And yet here he is. And he says, you know what all that was to me? Dung. My lineage, my heritage, all that stuff that just made me look good in front of men, don't mean nothing to me anymore. I want Christ. I want to win Christ. And he said, if I've got to leave that to get him, then goodbye, I'm gone. Now, church, a lot of people won't leave what is good to get something better. They tell me there's a breed of monkeys that they catch in the jungle by putting something in a jar, and that thing will put its hand in the jar and hold on to it, and it will not let go of that thing, and and you can walk right up to it, grab it, knock it in the head, and take it home And that's what they do. And it it dies because it won't let go of something it thinks good. For something that's better, freedom. And you know what? There may be some of you, you're holding on to something, and you know what, you're holding it with a death grit, and it's gonna kill you because you won't let it go. But here, Paul, it's dung. It's dung. I want to win Christ. You know there's people who go to hell because they're holding on to a profession. Knowing they have nothing. They're hold on. Their pride. I'll never forget this little lady getting saved over in Kingsport, Tennessee. And she got saved in a meeting, in a in a tent meeting that was held there. And I remember her when she came forward and was was was praying and asking the Lord to save her. Everybody thought she was a burden for her family. She was a Sunday school teacher, had been one for decades. She had been faithful in her church. She was the epitome of a church lady, an elderly church lady. She lived a morally clean life, but she had never been born again. And when she got saved that night, she said to Brother Ralph, She said, Brother Ralph, can I say something? And he took the wireless down there, the wireless microphone, and she said, I want to say something to you folks. She said, years ago when I was a teenage girl, I went with a group of girls forward. I didn't know what I went forward for. She said, I I didn't pray. I just did what they did, bowed my head. and and everybody was just pronounced saved and and we just sort of was dealt with haphazardly and we went through everything and she said everybody congratulated me and she said immediately I realized I'm I'm in a trap here And she said, My pride kept me all these years from saying, Lord, I don't know you. You know that precious lady, I think she was 88, 89. And she said, one more time, the Lord stopped by and went. And she said, I feared if I didn't do business tonight, I'd never be saved. You know what she had to let go of? P R I D pride. She said, Church, you thought I w you know, she she apologized to her church and her Church, family, or pastor. I mean, it was the most powerful thing I think I've witnessed in my life, as she trusted the Lord Jesus. I'm telling you, friend, it's all dung in comparison to Jesus Christ. Paul's, this was a direct and principle. He said, I'll leave it all just to win Christ. And by the way, it this isn't a work that you do. It's not that you leave everything to get Christ. It's the fact that you've got to be willing to see and understand that apart from Jesus Christ, you have no hope. There's nothing in comparison to him. This was a directing principle in Paul's life. Look, he'd leave everything. Paul left the comforts of home. Paul left uh uh the the the the family that that he potentially had, he left all of these things And and just to follow Christ. It was all about Christ. That was the consuming passion and the directing principle. But then I want you to see thirdly in this a delightful possibility. And here's the possibility. I know him. I can know the Lord. Do you realize that? I don't know about you, but the hymns we sung this morning were majestic hymns. We sang hymns that made God big in my heart. Oh, he's big, but every once in a while my old scrawny heart needs to be reminded of how big he is. Those hymns reminded us of the bigness, the greatness of our God. Dr. Hitchin is teaching out of Job, and God said to Job, Does the rain have a father? I thought of that as it was raining. It does. It's not Mother Earth, it's Father God. He's the father. Rain does have a father. He sends it. He casts it over the countryside. He's the he's the author and the giver of it. Listen, my friend, here is the delightful possibility that God who makes the rain fall. and causes the sun and the moon and the stars to shine, is the God you can know. The God who created the beauty that you see with your eyes is the God that you can know in the depths of your heart. You can know him in a very real way. This isn't just getting a head full of religion. This is getting a heart full of God. So that you can say, I know the Lord. You can know him better than you know anybody else. You know it's amazing to me. My Bible says this, that I can't know my heart. My heart is deceitful. I used to say this, and every once in while I catch myself still doing it. If I know my heart, well that's I've stopped doing that because I don't know my heart. If I know my heart, well, my heart is deceitful, it's desperately desperately wicked, and no man can know it. There's a God who does. He knows And I can't know my heart, and there's a lot of things I don't know. How many questions I I forget the exact number that God asked Job, but Job had no answers for any of them. He didn't have the answers, and there's a lot of things I don't know. And like Dr. Hitchin said this morning, one of the things we learn as we get older is we don't know all that we think we know. And I thought the other night I was laying there trying to go to sleep, and I thought, I wished I was as smart as I thought I was when I was 18. I didn't take the confidence of assurance that I had when I was 21. at this point in my life. I wish I knew some things that I thought I knew back then, but I'll tell you what, I can't. My Bible says this. I can know God There's things I can't know, but I can know him. I'll never know him in the fullness of who he is, but I shall, but I can know him. I can know who he is as my savior. I can know who he is as my security. I can know who he is as my shepherd. I can know who he is as my sustainer. I can know who he is as my strength. I can know him who he is as my safety. I can know him for who he is, church. You can know the Lord. Don't stop short of this thing of knowing him. Don't get content with just kicking around in the courtroom and not going right on inside to the whole palace. You've been invited to a heavenly banquet. I don't know if you've ever been to one of those finer places. My wife and I were treated to something for one of our anniversaries. We went down to this this place on the north shore of Nova Scotia. Trying to remember the name of it, but anyway We went down there and you you had to be there at a certain time and you sat down and they started serving you a food, but I found out that was just the foretaste of what was to come. They were giving you appetizers and things like that, just coming around you like one of these, like this, that, the other. And uh that that paled in comparison to what was to follow. It was just the beginning. Now, I'll be honest with you, I was pretty happy with what they offered. And I'd have been content my belly was quite full by the time we got seated. I mean you had to sit there an hour before You got seated and then then the meal came and then the food, then all of that. But what I'm trying to say is a lot of times all we are content with is mere appetizers when God's got a banquet set for us He wants you to know him. He wants you to know him, church. You young people, being a Christian is not a born journey. It's not a waste of your time. If you want to waste your time and your talent, go live for the world and your flesh and the devil. That'll be a waste of time. You get to know God, and my friend, you'll get to know something real. Now you may not know too many Christians that are like that, but get in your Bible and let God show you something. Don't define Christianity by the Christians you know anyhow. That's not wise, even if you know good ones. Define Christianity by the Christ who's the giver of it. That's the best way to figure out what it is. We need to know him. What a delightful possibility. I can know God. Do you realize that? You can know the Lord. You can know him. The Bible says this: that he is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. You can know him like that. You can know him as the best friend you got. You can know him as the dearest thing on earth to you. You can know him in such a close level, such a close way that, my friend, listen, you you don't know anyone else quite like you can know the Lord. Jesus said something that the disciples really had to ponder when he said, Not only shall the comforter be with you, but he'll be in you. He'll be in you. Now you can't get closer than that. Like Brother Billy Kelly used to say when he would sit down to eat a chicken dinner, he said, I'm about to put you in the ministry You 'll get it, think just a minute. Now you can't have any closer fellowship than that Friend, you've you have Christ. What's been our theme in this this year? What have we tried to emphasize again and again? Christ in you, the hope of glory. A lot of our self-righteousness is mere bragging about the garments of religion rather than getting to know the internal dwelling of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not about what I do or who I am or what position I have. Sometimes we strut that way too much. We need to understand that what it means to be a Christian is to have Christ living in me, that He's in me, and I can know the God of heaven. I can know him, church. You can know him. The devil sold a bill of goods through religion and says you can't know him except you go through a man Well I've got news for you. There's only one man you've got to go through. His name is Jesus Christ. You can know God through him. There's one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. There's only one that you've got to go through who's the mediator for men's souls. That's our precious Lord. Now thank God for those that can help us know him. Evangelist hat interpreter. And uh or excuse me, Pilgrim had evangelists, and evangelists used the interpreter, and there were others that helped these men along that That helped him come to know God. And I'm thankful for all of the helps, but none of them, none of them can take the place of a personal relationship with God. You precious young people, listen to me. You get to know God on your own. Now you can ride on the coattail of your mom and daddy for a while. And you can ride on the coattail of other Christians, but there'll come a place you'll need to know God. There'll come a time when you'll need to know how to pray, and you'll need to know how to get a hold of the Lord, and you'll need to know how to get a word from heaven. And you'll need to know what the Bible says, and you'll need to know him, just like maybe your parents know him. You'll need to know the Lord. But you can know the Lord. Look at little David. He's a shepherd boy. And he's not much as far as the world's concerned, but he knew the Lord. Just as a boy, he knew the Lord. Just as a kid, he knew God. Don't tell me you're too young to know the Lord. I'm telling you what, every one of us here, over a certain age, you could hand your kids your phone and they could show you something you don't know. A lot of some. Do you know it does this? Somebody said the other day, do you know your phone will do this? I said, had no clue. They said, well let me show you. It's pretty humbling when they're five and six years old Now don't tell me if they can know that they can't know him. Don't tell me that The greatest thing God ever did was make it possible for a man to know him. You say, how do we know him? We know him through the Lord Jesus. The Bible says God's the Spirit. And and you can't see him, you can't look upon him with your eyes, but he did a favor for us when he sent the Lord Jesus, whom we could see with our eyes and read about with with our eyes and learn about and we see that he's the manifest presence of God. Uh he said to Philip, he said, if you've seen Me, you've seen my father. He said you're looking if you want to know who God is, look at Jesus. And God made a way. And listen, my sin kept me from getting to God, so God made a provision by sending his son to be my sacrifice, and when he died on the cross and shed his blood, he took my penalty, he took my punishment, he took my my sin debt, and he paid it in full, and he made a way for me to get to God Now I can't get to God any other way. My sin will keep me back. My sin will keep me back. It's a guard that won't let me reach God. You ever have to put one of those cone of shame on your pet? You try to keep you you try to keep them. Our one of our dogs we had to put one on him and and that dog was so unintelligent. That it would run full speed through the house and then hit with that cone and it'd spin him around and around and round. And you say, what would he do? He'd get up and do it again. You'd have to get a hold of him and w guide him by his cone out the door so that he could get out. I mean he that thing just about killed him. He'd try to get his water. I mean it was that was it kept him back. Can I say to you, you know what your sin does? It keeps you back from God. Your sin keeps you back from God. Your sin, my friend, your sin is keeping you back from God. You can turn whatever way you want to turn, but you can't shed it. You've got to have someone else remove it. And listen, the church can't do it, and baptism can't do it, but Jesus can. And he'll remove it when you come to him by faith because he paid the penalty for it on Calvary. God will set you free. God will save you, friend. God will save you. Oh, listen, what a delightful possibility that you can know the Lord. You can know him as your Savior. You can know him as your sustainer and comforter and friend. You can know him as your guide, as your God. This and the God who makes the sunrise every morning is the God that you can bow and have fellowship with as that sun rises. A personal relationship. Well, this is really the key to the rest of the verse. Because you won't know the potent reality of the Power of his resurrection, if you don't have a personal relationship with God. You won't know something of the power until this relationship's personal. You've got to get to know him. If I could say there's one need in the church today, it's for us to know God. I mean, just really know him. Ah, we know all the rules and regulations, we know all the standards, we know what pleases the brethren, we know what impresses men. But somehow along the way we forgot we need to know God. And we don't get to know God, folks. We're in trouble. Do you know him? And knowing him is just the beginning of knowing him. It opens the door and it fuels an appetite and stirs the passion. Say, what I what I know I'm grateful, but I want to know more. I want to know more. I want to know more. Or have you just settled down and you're content eating the appetizer? Some of you are sitting here and you're happy you're going to heaven. I'm happy you are too. You're thankful that you're forgiven and all of that, but that's as far as it gets. You don't know him any much more than that. You don't know beyond that. You don't know him in the way he wants to be known. It would be a good time today to get so discontent. You'll get up from the appetizer table and head for the banqueting table and say, Lord, I really want to know you. Would you stand with me, please? Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed But the proof is