Is it not that we magnify the Lord in these days? I want you to take your Bible, please, and go with me to the Gospel of Matthew, Matthew chapter number two. And I'd like to begin reading here in verse number 1, Matthew chapter number 2. And when you find your place in your copy of God's Word, I want you to stand with me as we honor the reading of his book. Matthew chapter 2 and verse number 1. We're going to read down to verse number 12. Matthew chapter 2, beginning in verse number 1, the Bible says, now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, Behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he that is born, king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the East, and are come to worship him. When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born. And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet, and thou Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, art not the least among the princes of Judah for out of thee shall come a governor that shall rule my people Israel. Then Herod, when he had privily called the wise men, inquired of them diligently what time the star appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search diligently for the young child. And when ye have found him, bring me word again that I may come and worship him also. When they had heard the king, they departed. And lo, the star which they saw in the east went before them till it came and stood over where the young child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary his mother, fell down and worshipped him And when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh. And being warned of God in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed into their own country another way. It's been in my heart these Sunday evenings through this time to make our studies very practical And I want to do that again by the help of the Lord here this evening. And I just want to preach a very simple thought on lessons we can learn from the wise men. The Proverbs say this: He that walketh with wise men shall be wise. So I want to walk with the wise men for just a few minutes and see if we can't garner some of their wisdom. Let's pray together. Father, we come in Jesus' name and certainly need thy help. We ask you, O Lord, to do in our hearts what you alone can do. Open the eyes of our understanding, teach us and instruct us and lead us. And meet the great need of every heart. And Lord, for what you do, we'll be careful to bow our heads and give you the glory. Lord, help us tonight. Hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up Jesus Would you speak to us, Lord, and we'll praise you for it, because we ask it in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. You know, I want you to notice a phrase in verse number one. The Bible says in the last part of that verse, there came wise men from the east. Now, I've read a lot of things about these wise men. I've read that they were kings of the Orient. In fact, there's songs written to that effect. I've read that uh, you know, there were three in number, and that's sort of been what's uh been memorialized down through time and what have you, that there were three in number, and we speculate that simply because uh there were three gifts that were brought. It is believed because being from the east, they were likely from the uh area of Persia. uh which would have been about a thousand mile trip for these men. Uh it is possible and and more likely probable that the information that they learn concerning the birth of Jesus Christ came from Daniel's influence in Babylon during his time there. But with all of that said, the reality is: here's what we know from the New Testament. There came wise men from the East. We don't know how many there were. We don't know uh exactly were they kings of the Orient or who or who they they really were. We don't know their names. I read something the other day. about the wise men. They and uh it was a tradition and they all had names that were given to them. And and literally all of that is is just tradition But we do know that there were wise men who came from the east. What a thing it must have been, we understand that as you read on, that when they came, they did not come to a manger, but they came to a house. They came to a house where not an infant was laid, but where a young child was, according to the Word of God. They came and we find that when they did not report back to Herod, Herod in his rage said, kill every child, two years of age and under. So we know from that that the Lord Jesus would have been about two years old. But what can we learn from these men? Are there some practical things that can help us in our spiritual walk today? Because again, these are wise men, and the record of their coming is very clearly here in the inspired Word of God. I want you to make, if you make notes, I want you to jot just a few thoughts down about these wise men. Let me say, number one, that Jesus is worth the trip. He's always worth the trip. These men traveled some nearly thousand miles, and by the way, they didn't do it in a jetliner. They they might have been on Camel Express, or they could have been on foot, but however it is they got there, it was a long, dangerous journey. These men were carrying valuables. They were carrying the gold and the frankincense and the myrrh And by the way, these gifts were sufficient enough that when Joseph and Mary and the Lord Jesus made their way down to Egypt and had to stay for quite some time. I believe these gifts financed their existence during that time. God was providing for them. So these men were carrying a very valuable load, and these men were were traveling through dangerous conditions. Can you imagine what they had to go through as they as they made their journey as they walked and Perhaps rode camel or uh maybe even had to take time in a boat. It uh however it is they traveled, I'm sure it was a varied uh process of getting there. Can you imagine the the tiredness and the weariness and the difficulty of this journey? I'm sure there were times they started out, and if I understand correctly, they started out when the star appeared. And so these men weren't traveling mere days. These men were traveling months and perhaps as long as the two full years. I accidentally had left my phone when I googled uh how to get somewhere. I had left it on walking. I was up in Philadelphia and I put in a I was going somewhere in Lancaster and or Lancaster and I was putting it in and I thought, it said two and a half days. I said, what I'm not going to California, I'm going to Pennsylvania. And then I looked up, have you ever done that? You look up there and I was trying to find my way up in Philadelphia somewhere. I was having to walk and so I'd switched it over and then I realized, hey, I'm not walking, buddy, I'm driving. These men didn't have that option. And this was a journey. If you stop and think about what they had to go through and the danger they were susceptible to and all of that, but can I just say this? Jesus was worth the journey. Now you and I are on a journey. And and and listen, I I don't know what it is you have to go through or what you are going through, but I can say this without hesitation or reservation. Jesus is worth the journey. Some of you have decided to follow Christ, and it meant the turning of the back of family. It meant that friends and loved ones said, hey, you're crazy, and you got ridiculed and vilified and looked down upon and And there may not be a soul that you're near kin to that understands your commitment. But can I say this? Jesus is worth the journey. He's worth the journey. You may be sitting here and perhaps thinking about all that you've had to go through following Jesus. You've had you thought about all of the diff by the way following Jesus is not a walk in the park Following the Lord Jesus is going to cost you something. The disciples were, one disciple said to Jesus, I'll follow you whithersoever thou goest. Those were good sounding words. Jesus' reply was: the birds of the air have nests, the foxes have holes, the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. He was reminding him that following Jesus has a cost. Following the Lord Jesus is not the path of least resistance. If you're going to follow the Lord Jesus, you're going to follow him into storm. You're going to follow him into difficulty. You're going to follow him into into challenges and opposition, and you're going to follow him into all sorts of obstacles that are going to be thrown your way. But let me just insert this real quick. Jesus is worth the journey. He's worth the trip. Isn't it worth it every once in a while to just sense the smile of heaven on the path you've chosen? To realize that the Lord is pleased. All of the earth may frown, but if the smile of heaven's on you, it's worth it after all. Jesus is worth the journey. He's worth all of the challenges and worth all can you imagine those those men, I'm sure their feet were tired, I'm sure their bodies were sore. I'm sure there was a great deal of expense involved, but when they saw Jesus, they said, it's worth it all. It was worth it all. Don't believe the devil's lie. He wants you to sit here tonight and think, poor little me, I'm just a Christian trying to make it home. I'm just struggling along, just doing the best I can, and I I hope to make it one day. Dear brother, sister, Jesus is worth it. He's worth the trip. He's worth the journey. He himself is worth it all. He's worth it. If we're going to learn something from these wise men, know this. These wise men would say Jesus is worth the journey. He's worth it. Listen, if you and I live our lives and our entire lifetime to the eyes of men is a failure, but in the eyes of God is a success, you can bow your head and say, Lord, it's been worth it all. Jesus is worth the journey. I believe there's something else here to learn from these men. As we read about something they did here in the text. The Bible says that they came into the house when they were come, verse 11, into the house. They saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and fell down and worshiped him. And when they had opened their treasures They presented unto him gifts, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. Would you note this? Giving is an act of worship. That's what these men are doing. They're worshiping the Lord. And as they worship the Lord, they give. What did they give? They gave gold and frankincense and myrrh. These are all very valuable things. These were the the gifts that were presented to kings, people of great importance. You know, isn't it interesting? You ought to do a study sometime of the things that were given to Jesus. There were some things that were given to Jesus that show the value of the giver, how they valued the person of the Lord Jesus. These wise men must have esteemed him a king, because they gave him kingly gifts. And in their worship they gave. By the way, you and I can't worship unless we give I'm not talking about giving money. That's a part of it. That's a very small part of it. The reality is God wants you to give Him your praise. That's the fruit of your lips He wants you to give him hit your praise. You know, I I I sit up here and sometimes I watch and sometimes I don't, but sometimes when I'm watching uh during the the singing of hymns Uh i it's amazing the the difference uh in a congregation even of this size. You have individuals that stand there and stare at an open book They don't give nothing. Not a grunt, not a refrain. They don't even let out a holy whistle. They just and then you've got others. And they sing, and and you see you know what they're doing? They're giving God their praise. They're giving God their praise. By the way, the singing of our hymns is not just uh a a filler. We're not trying to fill an hour. We're not trying to just sort of pack something in so that you don't get bored sitting here. No, no, no. You know what we're doing? We're given an opportunity to publicly give God glory. And we're praising him. It's not a word Listen, when you worship, giving is an act of worship as we give God praise. We give God our time. We gather in here, you know what you're doing? You're giving God your time. You're giving a portion of your time to the Lord. You're saying, Lord, you're important enough to me that I'm going to give you this time in worship. I'm recognizing the fact that you're the Lord, that you're the creator, that you're the God of heaven, and I'm giving you this time as I honor you on the Lord's Day. I think we need to get back to Sunday being recognized as the Lord's Day. We need to realize that this is a day that we dedicate to our Lord. Not just a mere moment, but we give him the day. The day is the Lord's day. And you know, giving, we we give God, that's an act of worship. We're not here because we don't have nothing else better to do. We're not here just simply passing the time. Listen, when we come to the Lord's house, we're coming as an act of worship, and we're giving God that time, saying, Lord, you're worthy, and we want to worship you in the giving of this time to you. We're giving God time. By the way, I think the world understands this better than some Christians. I guarantee your neighbors know what you do on Lord's Day. They know They they know when you're in the house of the Lord. I I remember we lived up north, we had a neighbor that I didn't realize watched our home quite so closely until I'd gotten sick and wasn't able to go to church one Sunday. And it wasn't long he rung the phone. He said, What are you doing home? I said, Well I'm I'm sick, quite honestly, and not able to go. He said, Oh He said, I you always go to church, and when you didn't go to church, it kind of worried me. I thought, you know, that's a good thing. That's a good thing. It ought to shock your neighbors when you stay home on the Lord's Day Sadly it don't a whole bunch of them. Anyway. I said I'm gonna make it practical. I didn't mean to make it painful. But giving is an act of worship. We give God our time. We give God our praise. We ought to give God ourselves. We ought to give Him our being. Romans chapter 12 teaches that we're to present our bodies a what? Living sacrifice. Lord here it is. All that it's yours. That's an act of worship. Lord, I'm yours We ought to give God in a i ourselves in the act of surrender. Lord, I I I'm surrendering myself to you. And listen When you surrender the Lord, that doesn't mean He's going to call everybody to go to some far-flung mission field. He may call you, but the reality is you and I must give ourselves to the Lord. That's an act of worship. And of course, we give of our things. That's what these men did. They gave their gold and their frankincense and their myrrh. They gave those valuable gifts to the Lord Jesus. And of course that's what we do with our tithes and our office. We give. By the way, although giving is not a part of our public worship in our assembly, because we have the offering boxes, we still can give as an act of worship. Worship don't have to be on the schedule to be worshiped. It doesn't have to be in the format of what we do to be worship. Friend, listen, it's when we're giving of these things to the Lord, it is an act of worship. Someone said that giving shows our estimation of the true worth of the one we give to. And here these men gave kingly gifts to the King of all kings and the Lord of all lords. Let me quickly say number three. Discernment is a lifesaver. Discernment is a lifesaver. If you read in verse number seven, Herod called these wise men. And the Bible says he called them privily. He called them in a private way. And he had a private meeting. And he said to those men, notice what he said He inquired of them diligently what time the star appeared. Now Herod was terrified that another king had been born. He was terrified that he might lose his position. And so he made an inquiry and said, Now tell me all that you know And he said, Now you go to Bethlehem and search diligently for the young child, and when ye have found him, bring me word again, listen, that I may come and worship him also. Now the intention of these wise men was very clear. Their intention was, we've come to worship. We've come to worship this king. We've come to give him reverence. We've come to give to stand in awe, to bow in awe, and to worship this king. And Herod said, I want to worship too. So when you find him, Come tell me. Now if you read on in chapter 2, you realize he wasn't, he had no intention of worship. He was going to kill him. Here was a rival. He was going to take his life. And the discernment that God gave these men was a lifesaver. For the Lord Jesus. That discernment. You know what discernment is? Discernment is the ability to deceive what something is, not what it appears. Discernment is the ability to see things as they really are. Herod, I'm sure Herod spoke with the utmost of fake sincerity. Oh, I want to worship this king. I want to bring gifts like you brought gifts. I want to lavish on him great respect and And I want to recognize this king, but in his heart murder was brewing. In his heart there was a heart of iniquity. That said, there will be no king but me, and I'll annihilate him the first moment I get. Now these wise men couldn't see the heart, but they could hear God's voice. You and I can't see the heart of men. You and I can't see the heart of others, but we can hear the voice of God. Listen to me, dear friend. We must have discernment. Someone said, listen to your gut. I'll tell you this, listen to God. My guts, I don't trust them. They've told me many things that I've found to be untrue. Huh? As yours? We say, well, trust your instincts. I'd rather trust the Spirit, the indwelling spirit of God. How many of you have been thoroughly convinced something was so only to find out it wasn't? Serious things. Oh, how many men in the scriptures had friends they thought were friends who really were enemies in waiting? I know I've told you this, but our little home we had a place and Elizabeth was prone to hang clothes there to dry things that you couldn't put in the dryer or shouldn't put in the dryer. The refrigerator shrinks enough of our clothes without the dryer helping out. And so she would hang them and I got up one night and I don't know why I didn't see it I guess before I went to bed and I started in that bathroom and I thought somebody has broken our house. Now if I'd have stopped and thought logically, I would have thought, what are they standing on the tub for? But I didn't think logically, my first thought is somebody's in this house. And I pulled a MacGyver move and laid up against the wall and I thought, How can I take them out? And I thought the best thing to do is charge them. They don't, they're standing still. Maybe they know I'm I'm here. And I'll never forget the the foolishness I felt when I tackled that hanging piece of clothes and fell inside that tub. And thought, I ain't gonna tell you what I thought. It wasn't nice. But we had a conversation about hanging clothes in the bathroom overnight. I'll just give you that much But I was dead sure, Andy, my gut said you're in danger. Your home's been broken into, and you gotta do something. But it wasn't so. And I'll tell you, my friend, we need discernment as we walk this earth. It may be life-saving, maybe not for somebody else. It may be for you. I read that portion of scripture: Amnon had a friend. Man, if he had had some discernment, he would have told that friend to hit the road. If he had had some discernment, he would have stopped, but listen, he didn't have discernment, and you know what happened? It cost him his life. It cost him his life. He died prematurely because he had a friend that he couldn't discern was not a friend. He had a man who was looking for a position, not a man who was a friend. I'm just saying discernment discernment can be life-saving. Here were some men that had discernment. God said, Don't go back to Herod And the best I can figure, the Bible doesn't tell me that God gave them an explanation. It just says God warned them in a dream that they should not return to Herod. That's all God did. In other words, God said, don't go. And these men listened. And how many of you know it pays to listen to the Lord? They had discernment. Oh, dear Christian, learn something from these wise men. Ask God to give you discernment. Ask the Lord to help you to see things and to know things and to understand things like they really are, not what they appear. The devil puts a beautiful front. Have you ever seen a um uh a movie set that they've built like a fake village or a town or whatever? And if you just look at the front of that, you think, man, that's a beautiful old town. But when you go around behind the front There's nothing back there. It's just propped up. It's just a visual. It's a fake visual. It's meant to deceive and to trick and to make you think. That there 's here's an old they might build an old eighteen hundreds looking uh community or village or whatever. And that's exactly what the devil's constantly doing in all of our lives. He's putting up the fake storefronts, he's putting up the the the the fate uh front and he's saying, hey, this is what it looks like. Follow me and all will be well. I'll tell you who the masters of that are, uh the ac alcohol advertisers. I I I look forward to the day when that stuff burns in hell with the devil. Because that's exactly where it comes from. Everybody's healthy. Everybody's good looking. They don't put no ugly people on them commercials. You notice that? And everybody's having a good time. But they don't show you The empty cupboards. They don't show you the abused women and children. They don't show you the wrecks and the death. And the visits to the morgue and the broken-hearted family standing round, all because of this demon liquor. They don't show you that. You know what you need? You need some discernment to know that everything the devil puts out there is not as it's advertised. The best way I know not to be an alcoholic is never drink a stuff. An alcoholic starts with one drink and then down it goes. I'm here to tell you, friend, the devil's a liar. And God's little children need discernment. The Lord can walk you through the minefield of life and keep you from stepping on the devil's explosives. Because he gives us discernment. I believe these wise men had discernment because they listened to God. And then I want you to notice number four. As we read on, did you see the progression as we read? They saw a star. And the stars led to a search in the scriptures, and the scriptures led to the Savior. Do you see that? As they followed the star, it took them to the book. And Herod said, Bring all the scribes and bring these men that know the scriptures and tell us what the scriptures say. And they began to quote scriptures about Jesus being born in Bethlehem. And then they followed the scriptures, and the scriptures led right to the Savior. And as they opened the door of the house, there he was. You know what that is? That's obedience bringing light. Number four, obedience brings light. As you follow the Lord He'll show you more things. You say, preacher, I I really need to s to know something from the Lord. I need to know about this situation in my life or I I need an answer about this. Well, are you are you following the Lord in what you know already? Obedience brings more light. If I can illustrate it this way, have you ever walked with a lantern? Dr. Richards is talking about his mother making clothes out of a feed sack. That's interesting. Oh, that that's a neat thing. So I'm sure Dr. Hitchens has used a lantern. But when you walk with the lantern, have you ever noticed that that as you progress, so does the light You can't outrun the light, you've got to walk in the light. And as you walk in the light, you get more light. And the further you go with the light, the more light you get to go forward. And that's just like it is with the Lord. When you obey what you know, God lets you know more. A lot of times we get stuck at step one because we never obey what God's already said. There are a lot of Christians who are bored with their Christianity, who are backslidden in their heart, and who are out of fellowship with God because they've never took that one step God said take. And there's no more light. There's no advancement. The children of Israel wandered 40 years and didn't go hardly any distance at all because they wouldn't take that one step of obedience. Oh, they covered ground, but they didn't get nowhere. And a lot of times in our lives we just go in circle after circle after circle because we won't take that step of obedience. Listen, you know what the Lord did? The Lord took the children of Israel right back to where they disobeyed and said, now what are you going to do? They came to Kadesh Barnea and they said, We can't go across. And so they turned and they journeyed into the wilderness. And forty years later, guess where they're at? Kadesh Barnea? And God says, Now what are you going to do? And had they said no again, they'd have gone right back into the wilderness and went in circles. I'm just saying we need to take, learn to take those first steps of obedience because it will make the difference in your Christian life. Truth disobeyed is that stopping point in spiritual growth. There was a man years ago I pastored and and uh he had gotten saved, but he had never obeyed the Lord in believers' baptism. And that one thing hindered him the rest of his Christian life. I preached his funeral. He never obeyed the Lord. And you know what? He never went beyond that. Every time God dealt with him, guess what God dealt with him about? Obeying the Lord. Every time God spoke to his heart, almost every time you'd visit, he'd say something, you know, we need to be baptized. I remember one time he said, hey, uh, you got a canoe? I said, yeah, I got a canoe. He said, let's go up on the marsh and fish. I said, okay. He said, I'm going to tell you what's going to happen. He said, I'm going to turn the canoe over so I fall in the water. He said, You jump in there right quick and baptize me and it'll be done. And at that point, man, I was so desperate to see the man obey the Lord, I agreed to it. He never did. Never did. That's one thing. It it may be something God said no, and you won't let go. You know what that is? That's the stopping point of your spiritual growth. Obedience brings more light. As these men followed the star, the star led them to the scriptures. And as they followed the scriptures, the scriptures led them to the Savior. Had they never obeyed and followed the star, they'd have never got to the scriptures. And had they never followed the scriptures, they'd never gotten to the Savior. It's the way the Lord works. Church, there's no minor issue about disobedience. All of it Halts growth. Brings you to a stopping point. You know the beauty of being a Christian is you don't ever stop growing so long as you never stop obeying. There's light. Isn't it a wonder you can study the Bible for 60 years and it still be as fresh and new? God still has some things to show you. Well, obedience brings more light. Let me give you just one more. We come to verse number 10, and this really stood out to me. When they saw the star They rejoiced with exceeding great joy. Now what did that star represent? Well, go back up in verse number. Verse number two, they said, Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east. By the way, I believe by the wording of Scripture. That this was not a natural phenomenon. I don't believe that it was just one of the stars of heaven. that suddenly became rather apparent and mobile and led these men along. I believe this was a supernatural thing. It's his star. It's his star It was his star. It wasn't operating in the constellations and the patterns as a normal thing. It was the supernatural star. It was one of those heavenly, I believe Mr. Spurgeon said it was a heavenly usher shining the light to show the way. God had ordained it. It was his star. And this star came and rested over the place where Jesus was. And according to the word of God, when they saw that star, what's the very next thing they did? And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary's mother. If you're making notes, here's the fifth thing, and I'm through. There's joy at the end of the way. There's joy at the end of the way. These men had traveled, they'd gotten thirsty, they had gotten dirty and dusty. These men had endured privation, they had endured hardship, they perhaps had had had had difficulty, maybe been Uh dealing with robbers and all sorts of things, and now here they are, and there is the Lord Jesus, and they're filled with exceeding great joy. Isn't that a picture of the Christian? Dear Christian, your way may be full of trial. Your way may be hedged up with thorns. Your journey may be one. I don't know why some of God's little people suffer more than others. Some struggle with physical health and and and poor health and they they seem to just struggle all the days of their life I don't know why some seem to live in in constant poverty and financial difficulty. I don't know why some have have have uh lifelong friends or even mates turn their back and walk away. I don't know why people have to suffer like they suffer. But I can tell you this if you're a Christian, there's joy at the end of the journey. There's a joy awaiting you. Oh, listen, when when Jesus taught us there in Matthew, Matthew chapter 25 and verse 21, he said to the good and faithful servant, Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. I'm telling you, there's a joy awaits you and I You may weep your way through this old veil of tears, but there's coming a day when there'll be no more tears shed There's coming a day when you'll never cry again, your heart will never be broke again, your body will never get sick again. My friends, you'll never uh have challenges or struggles or trials or be depressed or or fight the devil you'll be home free and you talk about a land of joy. That's waiting. Don't get surrooted down here that you forget you're heading up there. You've got a home awaiting. And I'm telling you, there's going to be joy unspeakable and full of glory. Can you imagine tonight the joy of seeing Jesus? Here's what he says. They come into the house, they saw, you notice it said they saw the young child first? Because that's what was important. I'm telling you, there's a lot of people I'm looking forward to seeing again. My brother and I were talking this evening. We talking about daddy and I, you know, I can't I miss I miss him. And I I can't wait to see him again. I I I can't I'm looking forward to that. I can't wait to see my mama again, my grandpa. There's a whole lot of people in heaven I'm looking forward to seeing. But you know who matters most and who's going to be first It's the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the reason heaven's heaven. He's the reason we're gonna be there and you talk about joy when we see him. No wonder you're gonna need a brand new body. This is gonna blow all to pieces if If you saw him in it, you're gonna have to have a new one to handle that. Some of these poor stiff brothers, you're gonna shout like you've never shouted before I'm telling you heaven's gonna cut you loose. You've been a bit stoic down here. That that that stoic that that that that nature that that's gone up yonder It'll be evaporated. You know, around the throne they constantly sing and give glory to God. They praise him who's because he's eternally Forever the lamb on the throne. Listen, there's going to be a worship there, and there's going to be joy there. There's nobody's going to be in a bad mood when we get home. Isn't that good? Nobody's gonna have their feelings hurt and have their lip run out and be pouting. You remember pouting when you was little? Remember pouting? My brothers tell me something. I didn't remember it, but you know how older brothers, they remember all the bad stuff. Talking about pouting, you know. And uh I'm telling you, this there's nobody's gonna be pouting. Nobody's gonna be upset, gonna be no hurt feelings or hard feelings, none of that. Heaven's gonna cure that. Heaven's going to fix that. There's going to be a joy, there's a joy awaiting the children of God. There ought to be a longing in our hearts just to see Him and to get home. I think sometimes we live so well here that we think it can't get any better. And I say give your head a shake. You talk about getting better. You and I don't know. We just don't know how well it's going to be when we get home. There's joy. When these travelers got to where they were going , And they saw Jesus. They were full of exceeding. I like that. Don't you like the Bible language? They rejoiced with exceeding great joy. Man , they were just bubbling over with joy over the reality they're here in his presence. Can you imagine what it's going to be like? When you look on his face. What did Perry Rockwood that when he started his daily broadcast or closed his daily broadcast? He had a hymn on there that spoke about when we see him face to face. What a day that's going to be, church. And if you're saved, that's your future. There's joy. There's going to be joy. Billy Kelly said you better laugh down here. Every chance you get, because you'll go through enough briar patches between here and home that you'll wish you had of The truth of the matter is, all our joy down here is temporary and fleeting. But our joy up there is eternal. Exceeding great joy. There's joy at the end of the way. Oh child of God. One day we'll hear him say, Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. I want to walk with these wise men a bit more, but we better uncouple here. There's lots to learn from these wise men. I believe what made them wise men was not the position they held, but the person they adored. It was not the possessions they owned, but it was the person they sought for. I wonder tonight, are we wise men? Are we wise? Are are are we following in their footsteps? Thousands have. These aren't the only wise men that walk the earth in this way. There's been many, many more. There will be more. And may God help us to be one of them. Let's stand together, please, and pray. Father, undertake now