They would repent of sin and trust Him and know the wonderful joy of salvation. Then, Lord, as Christians, do a work in our hearts. Lord, you know what we need. Lord, we need you, desperately need you to work in our lives. And so I praise Jesus to have your will and way now in this service, and for all that you do, we'll give you the thanks and the praise in Jesus' matchless name for which sake we ask it. Amen. There are different I folks have some different ideas about the book of Hebrews. There are folks who believe it's not written to Christians. They say, well, it's written to people who came up to the brink of salvation but didn't really get saved I don't think that's the case at all, and I think we can prove it. You know, if we look at the look at the scriptures here, I think we can prove it's written to Christians. For instance, if you will look at chapter 2 , Hebrews chapter number two. And look at the first three verses there. Hebrews chapter two, verses one through three. He says, therefore, we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, less than any time we should let them slip. For if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense or reward, how shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? which at the first began to be spoken with the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him. Notice pronoun we All the way through that section, uh, the writer includes himself in this. So it's pretty obviously written to born-again people. Also in chapter number three, notice the first verse there , Hebrews chapter three, verse one, he says, Wherefore, holy brethren. Partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and high priest of our profession, Christ Jesus. He calls them holy brethren. And partakers of the heavenly calling. How could you say that about folks who don't know the Lord? This has to be has to be written to Christians. Look, if you will, in chapter number five. And verses 12 through 14, Hebrews chapter 5, and verses 12 through 14. Here he says, for when for the time you ought to be teachers, you have need the one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God. And I'll become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat. For everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness, for he's obeyed. But strong meat belongeth to them that are full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. So he said, you ought to be teachers by now. You couldn't say that about people who are not Christians, could you? No, this has to be written to born-again people. Look, if you will, again, look at chapter twelve. All the way through this book, we have language that indicates that this book is written to Christians. Chapter 12. Verses one and two. It says, Wherefore see we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which thus so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that set before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. Christian people he's writing to you, right? Obviously. Looking unto Jesus, the author and fellowisher by faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross Despising the shame and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Chapter number 13. I'm not going to take time to To look at that, but if you well this we'll take a look look at a couple of things in chapter 13. He starts off by saying, let brotherly love continue. Down at verse number seven, he says, Remember them which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God, whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation. Verse number 17, he says, obey them that have the rule over you, submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls. As they that must give an account, that they may do it with joy and not with grief, for that's unprofitable for you. So a lot of scripture that indicates that this is written to Christians. Now, the people who are being addressed here in this book are Jewish Christians, people who have been saved out of Judaism. And if if you put yourself in their shoes, uh the only thing that they had ever known when they were growing up was frequenting the temple. Seeing the sacrifices being offered, animal sacrifices in the temple , observing certain days All sorts of ordinances that they knew about , keeping the law. This is all they knew. But then we have uh the Lord Jesus laying down his life on the cross, and he's the Lamb of God. Remember John the Baptist said, Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. His sacrifice was a sacrifice to end all sacrifices. The Lamb of God. And he paid the penalty for sin for all eternity. No more animal sacrifices. And so here these people are coming out of Judaism. They've trusted Christ as their Savior. But their problem is getting letting go of the old ways. It's hard to let go of the old ways. And by the way, you know, we have a problem, particularly if you're older, letting go of the old ways in this new age of technology. Anybody identified with that? Things are changing so rapidly and it's hard for some of us to keep up with it. And it's hard for us to let go of things. Yeah, I I remember when I was a kid growing up, my grandmother and grandfather lived in the in the middle of uh Milford, Delaware. Uh Southeast 2nd Street, right in the center of Milford, Delaware. And they had they didn't have electricity in the house. They had oil lamps. My grandmother had an ice box, you know, where the iceman dropped off a keg of ice every day or so. Um It wasn't that it wasn't available. It was they just didn't want it. That's not what they were used to Uh well, you know, it it's hard for us sometimes to let go of old ways, isn't it? And these people here had the same problem. They have a hard time letting go of the old things of Judaism. And that's the big battle that they're having. But the writer here, and I believe it's the Apostle Paul. The writer here uses the word better ten times in this book. But what we have in Christ is far better than anything they had in Judaism. Uh we have a better mediator, the Lord Jesus Himself. We have a better hope. We have a better covenant, a better uh uh Can't read my own writing here. But what we have is better. Ten different times he uses that word better. And so the question is, if you have something better, why do you want to hold on to the old things? That's the question. And so that that's the problem that these that these folks are having, letting go of the old ways. And the apostle, as he's writing here. In that first verse of chapter 6, he says, therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let's go on to perfection. When he says leaving the principles, he's not talking about abandoning the principles. He's talking about leaving them as you build on the foundation. If you build a house, you put the foundation down first. And then at some point you leave the foundation as you begin to build up. You don't forsake it though, do you? You don't forsake the foundation, but you leave it as you build up. So here he's saying, let's let's leave these principles uh of the doctrine of Christ and let's go on to perfection. Let's go on to perfection. So that's that's what I want to bring a message on. Let's go on to perfection. And this exhortation here to go on means that God expects us to grow. By the way, when he talks about perfection, we're not talking about sinless perfection. Because we're not going to be sinlessly perfect in this life. One day we'll be sinlessly perfect. We'll get a glorified body. But not in this light. As long as we're in this body of flesh, we will never be sinlessly perfect. But We can go on to maturity, can't we? We can grow into Christian maturity. And that's what he's talking about here. Let's go on to maturity, to perfection. Well God expects us to grow. You know, if you when a child is born, you expect that child to grow, don't you? And if the child doesn't grow, there's something wrong. Well, the same thing's true with us as Christians. When the Lord saves us, you know, whether it be at age five or age fifty , He expects us to grow. And when we do get saved, Scripture says we're babes in Christ at that time. And as babes in Christ, we need to grow 1 Peter 2, verse 2 says, desire the sincere milk of the word that you may grow thereby. So the means to Christian maturity, let's talk about that. You know, what are what are the means that help us grow? Well, the first thing, it's the Word of God. Uh if we're going to grow, we're going to have to get into this book. The night I got saved, uh, I didn't know much about this book, still don't know much about it now, but I surely didn't know anything about it then. I knew I was lost. I knew that. I believed that Jesus died for me. I believed that there was a heaven and a hell. But other than that, I don't know much about this book. And as we get saved, God puts a desire in our hearts to get into this book. And um I've told this before, but the only the only Bible we had in the house when I got saved was a family Bible. Somebody had given it to us and we got married. And um so I got saved on Sunday night, Wednesday night rolled around, excuse me, Thursday night rolled around. We had a prayer meeting on Thursday night then. And so I want to go to church. I never wanted to go to church before. But after I got saved, all of a sudden I wanted to go to church. So I grabbed that family Bible and we walked in. And I'm sure when folks saw that, you know, when you see somebody walk into the family bible, you know they probably just got saved, right? But there was a King James Bible, it's the Word of God. And so that's what I got into, and the first book of all that I ever read was Revelation. Now, somebody probably told me better. Somebody probably gave me better advice, but that's what I jumped into, the book of Revelation. I I don't know how much I understood, but it's the word of God. And there is there is a promise, a blessing to those that read it. Uh and so I was reading it. And what a joy to get into this book. And uh so as as we get into this book and begin to read and to study we begin to grow. Now the growth process is different with different people, isn't it? You know some people grow like a weed uh other people it may take a little longer. One thing for sure, our growth is going to depend on how much we get into this book. How much we are influenced by this book. And sad to say, you know, there's some folks who've been saved for years that really haven't grown all that much. That ought not to be the case, should it? No , our growth should be should be a continual thing. And so the means to our maturity as a Christian is first of all The word of God. And uh as we as we get into it, as we let it sink into us, into our hearts, um, it changes us, doesn't it? It changes us. Someone has said that the more we get into this book, the more we immerse ourselves into this book, the more we begin to think the way God thinks. We have the mind of Christ, we're told. And we begin to think the way he thinks about things. And so it need it needs to permeate us. And by the way, I don't think you can ever get too much. I don't think you can ever get too much. Um I don't know how many times you've read it through. Uh we we have a plan that that we use. If you if you stick to that plan, you'll get through it in a year. So that means that every single year you'll read the whole Bible. Well some folks do better than that, and that's fine. Look, if you want to get through it in a month, if you can do that, that's great. But the point is it needs to sink in to our hearts, doesn't it? And we grow thereby. So we desire the censure of milk of the word, but then there comes a point where you want more than milk. Right, you want the meat of the word. And uh it has plenty of meat here too. Now, one thing for sure, we will never exhaust this book. You know, I I said this before. I I remember we had a uh we had a teacher that he'd been preaching well he was 75 when we had him in class. And he said he'd been preaching and teaching 50 years, and then he said, uh I've just scratched the surface. I've just scratched the surface so much here. Well look if we just scratch the surface and how much is here? Uh we we will never exhaust it. And you know, sometimes it's kinda almost like a gold mine. Uh you know you're you're digging and you think you've exhausted every little bit of gold, but you dig a little deeper and all all of a sudden here's another vein that you didn't know was there. Same way with this book. Uh how many times have have you read something? You think, boy, I got everything out of there that's there. Then you read it again, lo and behold, there's something you never saw. I mean it was there all the time, right? But God revealed it to you. So uh and by this we grow. The growth process works to bring us to Christian maturity. So the Word of God. Then prayer. There's nothing profound about any of these points. And pastors have been preaching a lot about prayer. And here is a a blessed exercise that we have available us that not only is a help to the people we're praying for, but it's a help to us in our growth. We grow as we pray. And I guess probably one of the things maybe the devil fights us on more than anything. Because he knows that's where the power is. I know you've heard this before, that the devil trembles when the weakest Christian gets on his knees to pray. Well that's where the power is. And uh and as we pray uh we grow Well, we have the presence of the Holy Spirit who lives within us, and He He comes in to dwell the instant we get saved, takes up His residence. Uh he's he's called the comforter. What a beautiful name that is, the comforter. Uh the alongside one. He comes alongside. And uh He's there to comfort us in our trials. He's there to to teach us, to guide us. Uh He's always with us. He said, I'll never leave you, nor forsake you. And so regardless of where we are or what's what's going on on our lives, he is there indwelling us. And helps us to grow as a Christian. Then we have the local church. Now, you know, there's there's some folks today who don't think they need the church. But this is God's institution. And Jesus said, On this rock I'll build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. The rock talking about himself. And it's his institution in a lost world today. And he paid the penalty for the church with his own blood, didn't he? And we're told not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner sum is. We need the local church. Um I don't know about you, but I need preaching. I need somebody to preach to me. Uh we're forgetful creatures. It takes long to forget. And you know, sometimes if you get out of church, it's awful hard to get back. But we we need the preaching, we need the fellowship. We need the prayer support that we get in a local church. And so it's a great means of growth for us as a Christian. And so I I do believe that uh for every born-again Christian, God has a church in mind somewhere. Obviously, it's not all the same, but he has one in mind somewhere. And that's where we can be fed, that's where we can uh grow, that's where we can give of our ourselves, give of our service. And so it's very important to our maturity as a Christian Christian friends, how important they are. Um they're worth a weight in gold, aren't they? They are. And uh, you know , the world out there, did you did you find that when you by the way, if you got saved later in life, did you find that you had some folks you thought were friends? But then you found out that wasn't the case. But Christian friends are real friends, aren't they? They will stick by you. And they will help you. And they will be a blessing to you. And again, they're worth their weight in gold. And they help us grow. Well, these are some things, and there are other things I'm sure we could say, but uh the means to maturity as a Christian and uh the measure of our maturity, faithfulness. First Corinthians 4 2 said, Moreover, it's required in stewards and a man be found faithful. There may be a lot of things that we're not able to do Uh but one thing we can all do is be faithful. We can do that. Uh not not everybody is called to preach, not everybody's called to be a missionary. Not everybody's called to teach or some particular ministry, but one thing all of us can do, and that's to be faithful. Find out what God wants us to do and just do it. And Stay at it, right? I is I saw this um here some time ago And the excavation of the city of Pompeii, everybody's familiar with that, I think. City of Pompeii was covered in volcanic ash in 79 A. D. on the Bay of Naples. And for like 2,000 years it remained buried under about 20 or 30 feet of volcanic ash. Well, in the 1700s, uh somebody discovered, you know, some of the uh structures there And uh they started to excavate. Well, a good bit of the city has been excavated. Uh still a good bit of that has not been excavated yet. They're finding things all the time. And I read this about one of the things they found. They found the remains of a Roman soldier. Standing at his post at the city gate. You think about that now. The city is being covered with ash. He had been commanded to hold that post, and that's where they found his remains. That's faithfulness. One of the things that we can do , maybe a lot of things we can't do, but we can be faithful. That's a may one of the measures of maturity as a Christian. Forgiveness. Forgiving one another. Ephesians 4. 32. Be kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. That's a mark of maturity. We're not likely to get out of this life without having somebody do us wrong. It's gonna happen, isn't it? If it hasn't happened to you yet, just fast your seatbelt. 'Cause it's gonna happen, right? Uh but the question is what do we do when it does happen? And one of the things You know, we can either we can either respond to that or we can react to it when it happens. But God wants us to respond to it. and have a forgiving heart and a forgiving spirit. Just think about what God did for us. I mean how much has he forgiven us? You do you remember Peter asked the question that time, Lord, if my brother sinned against me what, seven times, shall I forgive him? I think he was hoping the Lord would say, well yeah, okay, just seven. But remember what he did say I send you until seven day times seven, which is what, 490 times? If somebody sins against you the first time , It may not be too hard to forgive. But the second time, same person , gets a little more difficult. But Jesus said 490 times. Well, the point of that is there's no limit. There is no limit. How much has he forgiven us? I guarantee you a lot more than 490. A lot more than that. And he forgave us completely So a forgiving spirit is marked by maturity. Bearing one another's burdens Galatians 6 2. Being a help to folks. There are folks all around us that have that have burdens. And uh God pressures our hearts about helping somebody. That's a measure of our maturity. Uh being a friend, being a friendly Christian , Being a forbearing Christian. Galatians 3, verse 12 says, put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved. Vows of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long suffering. Forbearing one another. That word forbearing means putting up with one another. Ever have somebody rub you the wrong way? Oh yeah. And uh but forbearing one another, putting up with one another. We're to love one another as Christians, aren't we? And the mark of discipleship, John 13, 35, by this shall all men know that you're my disciples, if you have what? Love one for another. We don't always agree with each other, but we're to love each other. It's a mark of Christian maturity. Well, there's the menace to our maturity. But we have the old nature that we've talked about and it causes us trouble. And if we allow it to have its way, uh we'll lose the blessing of God. Not lose your salvation. You're not going to lose your salvation. Our salvation is secure in Christ. When Jesus said, I give in them eternal life and they shall never perish, that's exactly what he meant. Eternal life doesn't have an end, does it? And you can't lose it. If it's eternal, you can't lose it. And it can't end. That's the kind of life he said he gave us. So we have eternal life as Christians, but we can lose the blessing of God Can't do that, can't we? We can lose rewards. Uh we can lose our testimony We can hinder the plan of God. All these things can happen because we have that old rotten nature that we were born with. And so we we have to stay on our guard, don't we? Um I remember years ago, we were down in um in Natchez, Mississippi. And uh one of the things that we did uh while we were there, we're actually in a mission uh candidate school while we're there. But one of the things that we did while we were there is that we visited some of those antebellum homes in Natchez And I remember we went to this one called Longwood, Longwood Plantation. And uh I remember when we went in The first floor was beautiful, elaborately furnished. Period furniture of the middle eighteen hundreds. And then the guide said, Well, let's go upstairs. Well, when we went upstairs, it was all bare wood, scaffolding. And the guide said everything stopped in eighteen sixty one when the Union set up a uh um blockade so that ships could not get to the south and they couldn't get materials She said everything stopped in 1861. They left it exactly like it was. Workmen walked off You know, I thought about that. That's kind of like the lives of some Christians. Had a good start. Everything looked pretty good, but then something happened. And they quit. Oh, they're saved. But they just quit serving God. And um That ought not to happen, should it? And by the way, it doesn't have to happen. It does not have to happen. We've got everything we need to finish the course. We've got it The Apostle Paul, remember he said, I finished my course, I've kept the faith. What a wonderful thing to be able to say. Hopefully all of us can say that. That should be our desire, right? And one day to hear, well done, good and faithful servant. Well, let's go on to perfection. We don't have it in ourselves to do it. But God has what we need through His Word, through the power of the Holy Spirit, He has what we need to do that. To go on to perfection. And one day to hear. Well done, good and faithful servant. Well may the Lord add his blessing to his word tonight. Let's stand. Tim 's going to come. We're going to have a hymn of invitation.