Can I read you something this morning in John fourteen? It's not my message, I don't believe. But the Bible says, Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God? Jesus said this, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am There ye may be also. And Jesus said, Whither I go you know, and the way you know. And then he said this, I am the way. The truth and the life, and no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Aren't you glad there's a place called heaven? I believe sometimes the danger is that we get so caught up in the nasty now and now that we forget there's a sweet by and by. I don't believe there's a saint walked in this building that hadn't had some fiery dart hurled at him in the last week. But I'm glad to report to you, heaven steal your home. The promises of God are still true. Every one of them. I don't care what the world has to say about it. They're not the one who wrote it. God 's the one who wrote it. And you know, the Bible tells us in the last days there'll be scoffers and mockers. Those that'll say, Where's the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they are. There's going to be those that will say this thing is not real. It's not true. There's no place called heaven. But I'm glad we've got God's good word on this thing. We're not running on speculation. We're not running on our feelings, you know. If that be the case, I don't know many of us would even be thinking about heaven this morning because our feelings are so volatile and they come and they go. We're running on faith and faith on what? Not just faith. Faith and faith is foolish. Faith and faith is is just simply a a mindless exercise. We've got faith in God. Faith in God's Word. Faith in the promises that tell us He has gone to prepare a place for us. Have you ever thought about that place? I think sometimes we are too earthly minded to be any heavenly good You say, preacher, you didn't say that right. No, I believe I said it right. Because there are people who will tell you, oh, you're just too heavenly minded to be any earthly good. You're no earthly good until you are heavenly minded. Until you've got your eyes on a better place and a better person and thank God a better position. I hate to have to say it, but there's some Christians maybe sitting here listening to this broadcast, and you live your life like there is no heaven. You live like that place don't even exist. I mean all of your effort and all of your time and all of your attention and all of your thoughts and all of your labor is for right here and now. May I remind you there's going to come a day according to Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 27, and as it is appointed unto men once to die? And after this? The judgment? There's an after this. This isn't it. This it and all thank God this isn't all there is. This veil of tears is just a temporary place. Our Bible says it like this What is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. It's just a mere whisper of steam off the kettle in comparison to eternity. You say, well, preacher, I've lived I've lived 80 years, I've lived ninety years, I've lived a hundred years. We had a neighbor one time and that fellow lived to be 114 years old. Mowed his own grass and drove his car until he got such a big speeding ticket they took his license. At a hundred and twelve. Hundred and twelve. But his appointment came What's a hundred and fifty years in light of eternity? What's two hundred years? We read of old Methuselah. He lived over 900 years. 979 years, I believe it was. Sixty-nine. Thank you. And many of those Old Testament peoples from Adam up until the days of Noah would live hundreds and hundreds of years. But what is that in comparison to eternity? They've been in eternity far longer than they were on this earth. What is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. What's going to happen when it vanishes away? If all we've lived for is now, I'm talking about a place that's better, a place called heaven. Jesus said, I go to prepare A place for you. And I want you to think about that this morning. There's a place he's been working on. That's what that word prepare means. He's putting it in order. I don't know what all that heaven's going to be like. I get enough glimpses in the Bible to know it's like nothing I've ever seen. I've never seen a place like we studied about in the Revelation where we saw streets of gold, walls of jasper, and gates of pearl. Four square uh a four square city as high as it is, wide and wide as it is long. I I've never seen anything like that. You've never seen anything like that Listen, the most brilliant creation by AI cannot compare to what heaven's going to be like. You think about a place that the Lord, the Bible says that He, Jesus said, I go to prepare a place for you. And he prefaces that statement by saying, Let not your heart be troubled. Don't let the things of earth drag your heart down so low that you forget one day you're going to leave this place. Don't let the things of time get so consuming. My goodness, they get consuming, don't they? We get so caught up in I don't know about you, I maybe I'm just preaching to me. If that's if I you take a nap, I'll preach. I need it. But the reality is that sometimes we get so caught up right now that may I mean we just we just try to live. I remember having the feeling when we lived up north, when spring come, I'd always tell Elizabeth, well, we survived another one. The winner was like a survival of the fittest, you know. And you felt like when you got through another one, well that didn't kill me, so maybe I'll make it to another one. And some of you, dear people, you've lived this week, you say, Man, I made it to the end of this one. I lived through another one That's awful that's it's awful easy to live that way. It's awful easy to fall into that sort of pattern of saying, you know, I survived. I got through my you know, the world says Uh you know, it's Friday. Thank the Lord. We they don't thank the Lord, but you know what I mean. They they they're grateful they get through another week And beloved, listen, if this is all there is, Paul said this, if in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. That's all we got. Eat, drink, be merry, and die. But Jesus said, I go to prepare a place for you. And Jesus said to the believer, not just that I'm going to prepare a place for you, but he said, I I want you to remember this, don't let your heart be troubled. Don't let the enemy pull the scales over your eyes and make you think that you're going to miss out somehow on the journey. Yeah, that's a long journey. But thank God it has a bright destination. You know there's nothing feels as good as traveling and going home. Man you you travel I I used to travel two weeks out of the month every year and would not be home except for those usually two weeks, it'd be the latter two or the first two, whatever. And my goodness in traveling and preaching, I'd sleep on a church pew, I've slept in a Sunday school room, basements. Uh put me I went one place up north of New Brunswick and they put me in a in a junior bed. It was their little boys' bed. Now I mean I I'm not trying to insult myself, but I ain't junior nothing, you know. I'm extra large with extra fries and so It was hard to sleep in that thing. I I can still remember my I was nearly to my knees hanging over and so I stacked up some toys and so I you know my leg wouldn't go to sleep and slept there But man, I'll tell you, coming home, man, it was just so sweet to get home. And no matter how far you'd been, how tired you were, or whatever had happened along the way, forgot about it, just getting home Hear me tonight, or this morning rather, brother, sister, you're going home. My Bible says this world is not your home. In fact, it says we're pilgrims and strangers. We're like Abraham of old. We're looking for a city whose builder and maker is God. We're on our way home, but we aren't there just yet, and the half has not been told of what lies ahead, waiting for you and for me. Let not your heart be troubled The very reality that you've got a better home awaiting. That the Lord has gone to prepare a place for you. Let not your heart be troubled. Don't let it be troubled by the obstacles of life, by the difficulties, or the aggravations of the devil. The Bible calls him the accuser of the brethren. The Bible tells us that he is that great accuser and he's constantly trying to bring accusation, railing against the people of God. But aren't you glad up in heaven there's something answering for you? There's one answering for you, the Lord Jesus, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous And every accusation, every railing that's laid against the child of God is extinguished under the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ? That has righted our record and has remedied our sin and has has justified us before God. My goodness, what a work he's done on our behalf. Let not your heart be troubled. Not only has he gone to prepare a place for you, he's preparing you for the place. Much of living here is getting ready to live up there. I think there is a reason as we live things come into our lives. My dad said it this way. He said, son, getting old's like tearing down a barn one board at a time He said my raptors are a little shaky. He said my foundation totters back and forth. And he had a lot of other good illustrations of what it's like to get old. And the older I get, I'm thinking, Dad, I wish you weren't so truthful. You know. I'm missing a border too now myself. But I'm grateful to know this. My heart don't need to be troubled about that. The Bible says that we have a house not made with hands. Eternal in the heavens. And so the dismantling down here is just a preparation for a regathering up there. For to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. And the scripture would tell me that though this body may be laid down in death, there's going to be a glad resurrection. And the Bible says that the dead in Christ shall rise first, and then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Let not your heart be troubled. This dismantling down here is not sign of destruction. It's just moving. Do you ever move something like that? Move a building? I used to work for a man and we would move pole barns and we'd start up the top, we'd take all the tin off, and then we'd take the raptors off Then we'd take the walls down, then we'd pull the post or cut the post, and we'd take that whole building apart and take it to another location, then we'd dig holes, put the post in, we'd rebuild that thing and You know what I always noticed? It looked better after it was rebuilt than it was when it was taken down. Because every missing board was replaced. Every uh you know broken uh be it shingle or metal, whatever was replaced. All of that was fixed. And aren't you glad the Bible says when you see him you'll shut you shall be alike him? And we're going to have a glorified body. We're not going to live in this old vessel of clay no more. You're going to have a brand new body, a brand new A person, listen, you're going to have a body like an unto his glorious body, one where the Bible says will not grow old, will not die, will not weak, will not be in pain. Thank God for that place. Let not your heart be troubled. He said, I go to prepare a place for you. Then he made me a promise. I wasn't too keen on the promise keepers when they started, and I'm still not. Because I know the original Promise Keeper and he's never broken one of his. He said, if I go, I will come again. And he said, To receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be also. So I've got a promise from the Lord, and I just read this morning in Hebrews chapter number eight that there are two immutable things that ought to give me strong consolation and an anchor for my soul. That God has made a promise, He made a promise, and then He made an oath. And the promise and the oath come together in the character of God, and it is impossible for God to lie. His promise, listen, is the gift of eternal life to whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord. His oath is that he swore by himself because there was no higher uh object or individual to swear by and listen to me, you can run to that refuge, you can find strong consolation, because he will not break his promise. I'm gonna tell you something, you're not gonna feel saved more often than you do, feel saved. I need to say that again You're not going to feel saved more often than you do not feel saved. In other words, the greater part of the time your feelings are going to lie to you. Your feelings are going to tell you you're no good, you're lost, you're you're going to hell. And by the way, if you're bothered by it, that's a good sign you're saved because lost people ain't bothered about going to hell. They're just going there because they're dead in trespasses and sin. But God has given you a promise. He's given you a promise in the person of the Lord Jesus. And Paul wrote to those Hebrews and said, In chapter number eight, you have fled for a refuge. In other words, you ran to the person of Jesus Christ. And when you run to the person of the Lord Jesus Christ, he gives you a promise. His promise is, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my father's hands. He's given you a promise, my friend, that is immutable. It does not change. It cannot be broken. God will stick true and stay true to his promise. Not only is that promise a great consolation, it gives me a comfort in my heart, it gives me a consoling in my inner man to know that God has made a promise. If it was up to me to hang on, I'd have been lost a long time ago. But he's holding me. I'm kept with the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed at the last time. And by the way, what's got a hold of me in Christ will not let loose of me. No matter how much you wiggle, squirm, and try to get free. There's just no way to get loose. Can I say it like this? There's just no way to get lost. My father took me deer hunting and put me in a sleeping bag. I was four years old. I'll remember it. I hope till I get to heaven. And he sent me on this rock right down at his feet and he said, Now don't move because we're deer hunting And he's sitting up there and it's cold and I mean you're four years old, come on. I mean I saw something crawl across that rock and I thought if I could get out of this sleeping bag I can grab it. And I wiggled and I squirmed, and you know what happened? He had set me on the edge of a big licor, and the next thing I know, I'm I'm off the edge of that thing. I went down probably twenty-five-thirty feet Thank God I was in that sleeping bag, one of them big fluffy ones. And I I just rolled down like a big sack of potatoes right to the bottom of the hill. I remember looking up and seeing Dad and he didn't have a happy face on And he walked down to the bottom of the hill there and he picked me up in the sleeping bag. He took that sleeping bag like you would a sack of potatoes and he threw it over his shoulder. And my little head's right here next to his ear, and he said, Well, I guess we better go home. He said, Every deer in a hundred miles just heard that mess I fail. I I thought he was holding me. He wasn't holding me at all. You'll never fall out of the hands of God. You hear me, Christian? You will never fall. His hands are so big, beloved, that he it'd be impossible. You could walk the rest of your life and never get to the other side of them. And the reality is he's made a promise, and his promise is eternal life. And God does not break the promise. He's given unto you eternal life, and you will never perish. That's the promise And we run to that promise for consolation. And then the Bible says, which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast. Meaning that I've got something that holds me in position that the storms of life cannot up ho uproot. I've got an anchor. Dear friend, this morning, if you're not saved, you don't have an anchor and you don't have a refuge and you don't have strong consolation, and I would urge you today to flee to Jesus Christ. Run to him in faith. Cry to him for mercy. Call upon him for salvation. And you will find Jesus ready to save you. Ready to change you, ready to make you brand new. Oh, beloved, hear me this morning. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God Jesus said? Believe also in me. He reminds us not only is he preparing a place, but he's preparing the people for that place. And he's made some promises regarding that place. And those promises are that He's preparing us. He's promised us eternal life. And then He's promised that He's coming again for us. Please don't lose sight of that. I'm alarmed today that we're changing our Bibles to suit our times rather than looking at our times through what the Bible already says. Men I love today no longer believe Jesus is coming. They said it's just not true. It it obviously we missed it. Somehow or another we we we we didn't interpret it right or something and now they're saying there's no need to preach the The coming of the Lord Jesus, inevitably one of them, I'm sure, will contact me this week and say, Preacher, you know that's not true. That's not in the Word of God. Yet here I have in my hand a Bible. That is written by the Lord Himself, where Jesus said, I will come again. Now I'm not the sharpest knife in the drawer, but I know this. If he said I'm coming, that means he's coming back. And he said, I'll come, and what's he coming to do? To receive me unto himself. Now that means if he comes back and I'm still alive, something's gonna have to happen. I can't go to heaven in a body like this. I can't even get on an airplane in a body like this, let alone go to heaven on a body like this. There has to be a change. There's got to be an altering. There's got to be a transforming. I'm an earthly creature. I'm talking about going to a place that's heavenly. I'm earth-bound, and he's telling me he's going to take me to live in glory. So what is that change? Well, it's clearly told to us in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. And in 1 Corinthians 15, the Bible says, Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, which means die, but we shall all be changed. In a moment in the twinkling of an eye at the last trump, when the trumpet of God shall sound, oh listen, what a day that's going to be This corruptible will put on incorruptible, this mortal put on immortality, and then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The strength of sin is the law. And oh listen to me, dear friend, but thanks be unto God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Beloved, there's going to be a change come over those who are saved and alive. I hope everybody who's here this morning, if you're saved, I hope you live till the rapture. I pray that. I I've got a dear friend of mine who who lives there in Ontario now, Sarnia, I believe is where he lives. And uh Brother Sadler, I told him years ago, I said, Preacher, I pray for you that God will give you Caleb's portion. You know, remember Caleb in the Bible? When that old fella was eighty plus, he was taking mountains. He was fighting giants. He's just as strong at 80 as he was at 40. And God gave him a great strength until his time was over. I got an email from him here just this week, and Brother Sadler said, Preacher, I'm 97 years old. He said, I'm still preaching. He said, I reckon God's given me Caleb's portion. Still going on, writes papers, editorials, does all this stuff, still serving the Lord. Here's what I'm trying to say. I pray that every one of us here will go in the rapture, but if not We got a better hope. We know, listen, Job said it like this. He said, If skin worms destroy this body, I know I'll see him. My Redeemer liveth. And I'll see it. He said, Mine eyes shall see it. And listen, I'm glad to know as a believer to be absent from the bodies to be present with the Lord. We may shut our eyes in death, but we'll open them up in glory. And we'll see the Lord himself. I'm telling you, listen, he said, I'm coming again. I will come again. Let not your heart be troubled. Dear Christian, don't let the racket of the world drown out the blessed promise of God that Jesus is coming again. It could be today. It could be before this service over you say, Preacher I've heard that my whole life. Yeah, but one of these days it's gonna be the real deal. It is. You imagine you imagine being in here and just going straight to heaven like? I mean what be better? What'd it be better? Let that turkey burn that you got on the stove. It'll the devil can eat it or the dog one, whichever one gets to it first. Thank God we're going home. He's coming. He made a don't let your heart be troubled. The Lord's promise, I will come again. Live with a lifted ear and an open eye towards heaven. Because there's a something about to happen. Did you see yesterday those that large meteor entered into off the coast of the northeast there And people are sharing their cameras and their the the explosion and the bright light that some of them saw. Most of it uh was just an explosion and and I guess there were three of the New England states that they heard that it was such a powerful thing. And people were saying, What happened is uh y you know, is this the end of the world and all of that? And then This scientist, he was on the news there last night and he was, you know, laughing about this silliness of people who believe that and saying, uh, you know, it has a scientific explanation. Just he described the speed of that thing entering the atmosphere and how it burned up and exploded, blah blah. And he was going on. I thought, one day, old fella. If you don't go to hell first or get saved first, I pray you get saved first. The reality is the Lord's going to come, you're going to be on there Can I just put this in here? I I'm not going to say a lot about this, but this whole interest in aliens and the extraterrestrial, I think it's all preparatory for what's to come We gotta somehow another explain to a whole generation of people where all these Christians go when Jesus comes. So you gotta believe it it's it's very plausible they're going to say, well, they loaded them up on a spaceship and took them somewhere. Hallelujah, I'm not getting on a spaceship, but I'm going in heaven's ship. And I'm going home to heaven to be with the Lord. And I pray you are too. Thank God we have a promise. The Lord is coming. He said, I will come again. And what's he coming for? By the way, his promise has a purpose. He's coming for a purpose to receive you unto himself. Here's the heart's desire of the Lord. Boy, this, Charlie, I I I can't hardly understand it, to be honest with you. That where I am There you may be also. He wants to be with me. He wants me to be with him. He loves me that much that he wants me to go to where he is. so that I can be with him for all of eternity. And you know how I know that? Because two thousand years ago he hung on an old rugged cross and he shed his blood so that my sin could be removed. And he died the death of the wicked as he hung there as a spectacle before heaven and earth. He was buried and on the third day rose again, conquering Death, hell, and the grave, making a way for me to be saved, making a way for me to be forgiven, making a way for me to be with him for all of eternity. He made the way. I'm not out here trying to carve away, I'm just trying to follow him who is the way. He made the way. He made it possible. And he made the promise. And he's got the purpose behind. Don't let your heart be troubled. Hear me today. You say, preacher, I'm not a very good Christian. I failed the Lord. And I'm bothered. Perhaps you may be in the far country. You might be saved. But you're like that prodigal. You're living out there in the hog pen. You know it. You may be respectable on the outside, but be revolting before God on the inside. It may be this very day you say, Preacher, I'm I I it sort of troubles me. I I doubt. I I don't know. I I can't understand the Lord wanting to be with me, especially me being who I am. Know this Who you are if you're really saved is you are in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is in you. And when he looks at you, he doesn't see you for you, he sees you in his son. He sees the reflection, he sees the beauty. He sees the perfection, he sees the holiness. Furthermore, he sees the blood. Remember, when he came walking through Egypt and judgment was falling and people were dying, he said, When I see the blood I'll pass over you. And when he sees the blood, what does he see? He sees his son. He sees his son who died for us. Let not your heart be troubled, beloved. He wants you to be where he is. He wants you to be with him, and he's made it possible for that to happen, not on your performance, but on his perfection. not upon your abilities, but upon his work on the mighty cross of Calvary. Not in yourself, but in your Savior. We are well accepted in the beloved today. You say, well I I I'll know for sure when I get to heaven. You know before that. Do you know that? You can know before that. By the way, that's why he started this. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. Your greatest enemy, saved or unsaved, is an evil, wicked heart of unbelief. That's your greatest enemy. That's my greatest enemy. That nagging, gnawing unbelief that says, what if What about? Well I feel, people say that to me. They say, preacher, well I feel it's this way. And I I try to be kind and not say a whole lot, but I feel like saying, I don't care how you feel What does the Bible say? How you feel may be wrong. With all due respect, it may be wrong. You may feel a certain way and be absolutely incorrect. But this Bible is 100% true from cover to cover. There's nothing in the Word of God you can put a question mark behind if God has put a period or an exclamation point, or if it's true. Let not your heart be troubled. Many a time the quietness that need is needed in my heart would come from a simple exercise of faith in what the Bible says. Just believing. Jesus said this is the work of God, that you believe on him, whom he sent. Believe. Let me say this. There's a person you must know In all of this truth, it comes down to this statement: I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. That's the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. I wonder how many today Maybe sitting here listening, I don't know. You think you're going to heaven based on something other than Jesus Christ. Well, preacher, I'm a member. Well, I praise the Lord you took that step, made that commitment. It's commendable. But that doesn't make you a member of the body of Christ. I've been baptized, I've been sprinkled, I've mastered the catechism. I'm trying to do good. Maybe you're saying this, I'm trying to be a Christian. I'm trying to be a Christian. All of that says that you're putting your input. You're putting your effort, you're trying, not trusting. Jesus said it very clearly, plainly, I mean, this is inescapable. I am the way. Not one, not a possibility, not part of the options. He's just said, I'm the way. That means there's no other way. He said, I am the truth. That means the truth, the truth about salvation, and the truth about heaven, the truth about all things come from the person of Jesus Christ. Folks, please understand this. There might have been some great minds who've lived and walked on this earth and left behind some thinking and teaching and principles. But none of them can claim to be the truth like Jesus Christ. Only Jesus is the truth. And if there's any truth, supposed truth, that contradicts what Jesus said, it's not true. It's a lie. No matter how appealing or attractive or interesting it may be, if it goes against what Jesus said is not true. I'm the way, the truth. Here's what he said, and the life. Folks, I'm going to tell you something. We're all dead in trespasses and sin until we meet Jesus Christ as our Savior. And then we have life. It's not a creation on our part. It's not something that we have made up or work up or fix up. It's something that He puts in you the moment you get saved. You get life, life eternal, life abundant, real life. In Romans chapter 6, we're told that we're dead with Christ, but we also live with Christ. And Paul said, I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me, and the life I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. There's where life is. You don't know life if you don't know Jesus. I used to work with some old boys. They'd come in on Monday morning, hung over, trying to recover. I mean they walked around holding their heads, they were pale as a ghost. Every one of them felt like I mean they they were sick as a dog and they walked around trying to be real quiet. I love Monday mornings. I'd been to church, enjoyed the Lord, and you know it was a new week, and I thank God, listen, I thank the Lord. I had joy and I I told my brother-in-law they gave us such a hard time. I said on Monday morning, let's be extra loud and extra happy So on Monday morning, listen, don't don't get that little half-inch impact driver, get the big one, get the three-quarter, and and really put a spin on that thing and and make as much racket as you can And you know what they'd say at the at the break time, they'd all sit around and say, Boy, we had a time. And you'd say, Well, what did you do? I don't remember, but we had a time. Been sick since Saturday night? Boy, sound like you had a time to me. I'll tell you what, I'm glad when Jesus saves a soul. You can enjoy being alive and remember what you did. And it won't give you a headache doing it. There's life in the Lord Jesus. If you're listening, nothing out there, and I by that I mean this world, has anything to offer you It's temporary, it's painful, and it comes with an awful price take. A big one. And you'll pay the price But if you'll follow Jesus, you'll find life in that more abundantly. Can I ask you a question as I bow my head to pray here in a minute? Do you know him? I mean, really stop and say, is there a day in my life I met the Lord? I mean, made him in a saving way. Made him in a life-changing way. If any man be in Christ, therefore, he's a new creature. God will take you like you are, but He ain't gonna leave you like He found you. He's gonna make something brand new out of you. And beloved, listen, have you met Him like that? Do you know Him? It may be that all you have is your church andity, you don't have Christianity. It may be today that your heart is a bit troubled, and you need to hear the Lord say, Let not your heart be troubled. We got a lot of reasons to have peace that passes all understanding. If you're not saved today, the good news is you can be. Christ died for your sin. He was buried. He rose again the third day, according to the scripture. And he's left this grand promise that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Friend, before it's too late, cry out to him for mercy. Before you open your eyes in hell, cry out for mercy. Before you realize that Christ is real and eternity is real and heaven and hell are real, cry out to him for mercy. There's mercy to be had, but it's on this side of the grave. And if you are saved, can I ask you this morning? Are you just trusting what he said? Let not your heart be troubled. Might be good every once in a while to just drop that anchor a little bit deeper. So you know what? Like the Father who brought his son to Jesus, he said, Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. I need your help this morning. Maybe we need to pray in that fashion. Would you stand with me? Our heads are bowed, our eyes are