Luke chapter one and verse number sixty-seven. The Bible says that his father, Zacharias, was filled with the Holy Ghost And prophesied, saying, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he hath visited and redeemed his people. and hath raised up an horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David, as he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began That we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all that hate us, to perform the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant. The oath which he swear to our father Abraham, that he would grant unto us that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear. in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life. And thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of the highest For thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation unto his people, by the remission of their sins. Through the tender mercy of our God, whereby the dayspring from on high hath visited us to give light to them that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. I want you to think with me about these last few words that are spoken in verses 70 7, 78, and 79. Zacharias had been confronted in the temple as he was going about his course of duty there. And the angel said to him, Zacharias, you're going to have a son. Zacharias, in disbelief, said, I'm an old man, and my wife is well stricken with years. Somebody said, I did I I never understood why the Bible talked about getting old as being stricken until I got old. And you understand fully what it means to be stricken with years. Amen. Well, because of that, the angel said, Zechariah shall not speak until the baby's born. And so months and months will go by, and Zacharias is unable to speak. That is until his son, John the Baptist, is born. And Mary, uh John 's Mother Elizabeth said, We're going to name the child John And the whole family said, Well you can't name him John. We don't have any family by that name. No, his name is John. And so they gave they gave uh Zacharias something to write on, and they said, What will we call him? He said, His name is John. His name is John. And immediately the Bible says the Lord opened his mouth and he prophesied what we just read. But what I'm interested tonight is in this prophecy, especially in this light that's been given to us. May the Lord help us and open our understanding. Father, do speak to us, we pray, and we'll give you glory. For we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. You'll notice with me in these verses that John spoke of things to come. Rather, he spoke of one to come. His son, John the Baptist, would be a miracle child, he of course would come in an unexpected manner to Zacharias and Elizabeth. And because of the uniqueness of their situation John the Baptist would have a very unique beginning himself, and he would begin his ministry many, many years later, but he would come like Jesus did on purpose. But John had one mission. And that mission was to make the way for the Lord Jesus. He was the forerunner, the Bible says. He was the man who went before and heralded his coming. And in doing so, even Zacharias would sort of start this process by telling the people what Jesus would come to do. There are three things that I want you to see tonight. As he speaks about this coming child. Number one, I want you to see in verse 77 that Zechariah spoke of salvation. He said to give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins. To give knowledge of. Can you note with me just a moment tonight that this salvation is first in a person? He said to give knowledge of. Salvation is not in a what, but it's in a who. It's in Jesus. And he said he's come to give the knowledge of salvation unto his people. Aren't you glad you have heard and believed? The report that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is born, that he would die on Calvary's cross and make a way for you to be saved. And Salvation, as we read in the scripture, is of the Lord, and so it is to the Lord we give glory. Christians often or misunderstood individuals. Perhaps some expect the perfection out of Christians or they expect this, that, and the other out of a believer. But In all honesty, the only thing that you and I can brag about, and the only thing that you and I can boast of, and the only thing that you and I can glory in is the Lord Jesus Christ. Who saved us from our sin. Zachariah said a Savior is coming. A Savior, he didn't know all the details. He didn't know all that was to come yet. Much of that would be revealed later down the road. But here's what he did know. Salvation was on its way. And it would be in the person of the Lord Jesus. And then he talks about a people, the people of salvation. Look what he says here, to give salvation unto his people. His people. By the way. If you're a believer tonight, your salvation is not an accident, nor is it a mystery to the Lord. He knew and this is a marvel to me, but he knew that you would be in his family before you were ever born. He knew you. Before the foundation of the world, he said we were chosen in him. Now ponder that. And he talks about a people. Who are these people? Who are the people of the Lord? By the way, not everyone that says I'm a Christian is a Christian. But the Bible says, as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Those are his people. It's not what we call ourselves that matters. It's the one who has saved us that's important. It's what He knows and what we have done with the Lord Jesus that is critical. I think we get proud sometimes of our titles, when in reality the only thing we should boast in is Jesus Christ, Him crucified. But I also want you to notice there's a pardon mentioned here, because he says to give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins. That pardon. We're a forgiven people. His people are a forgiven people. Can I say to you That probably I think the most the sweetest word in the English vocabulary is that word forgiven. When you think about what it means to be forgiven, That your sins are all forgiven. That you're forgiven of all, listen, of all of our transgressions. Forgiven. When you stand before God, the declaration is in Jesus Christ, you've been forgiven. What a wonderful thing that is. I don't care how blotched your record is, how spotted your course has been, how many failures are involved And sins amassed. The reality is in Jesus Christ all manner of sin can be forgiven. Thank God for forgiveness of sin in the person of Jesus Christ. I read the story of a man who believed that he had to travel. uh hundreds of miles and go through this terrible, painful exercise to get his sin forgiven He would take, and this was the custom among his people, and they would take and put pieces of bone and pottery in all of the joints of their body. So that as they walked, their their body would just just cry out in pain. They would crawl the last, I forget how many miles it was, if it was uh 15 or 20 miles they would crawl on their hands and knees and and to this particular sacred place they believed to be sacred. Their bodies would would be bleeding and and they would be hurting from all of this agony. And somehow or another it This agony was to appease or atone for their wrong, and that perhaps they could get a sense of forgiveness or relief from all this suffering. The missionary said, Oh, how I wish that I could come alongside those that make this journey and whisper in their ear. The very simple message that Jesus saves, that forgiveness is found in Him alone, that all the sufferings and strugglings and all the difficulties that men put themselves through. to get that burden of sin. You if you you know what the burden of sin is. It's a weight that increases with time And yet, my friend, like the man in uh John Bunyan's classic Pilgrim's Progress, when you kneel at the cross When you come to the Lord Jesus, that great burden of sin falls off your back, rolls down the hill. John said it went into an empty tomb, and he saw it no more. He went away a new man, lightened from his load. And I'm glad to report to you this evening that, friend, listen, you can be forgiven in the Lord Jesus Christ. There's a pardon here, this salvation. Zacharias said there's salvation to come, but number two, quickly, he speaks of a sunrise, not the S-U -N, but the S-O-N. A sunrise. Look in verse 78. Through the tender mercy of our God, whereby the day spring from on high hath visited us. I want you to notice here the source of this sunrise is mercy. And by the way, the Bible says tender mercy. Do you realize that all of God's dealings are begin in mercy? If God deals with you and me, he's got to start with mercy. You know why? Because mercy is what I require for God to even acknowledge me. Mercy is not getting what I deserve. Have you ever been shown mercy? I mean, mercy is something that's of great, great value. I know a little boy that will go unnamed that was throwing rocks at a church window. And why little boys throw rocks at church windows, you'll have to ask a little boy that's got answers, because this little boy don't have answers. But when you you know, it it there's something about throwing rocks, there's a finesse at throwing rocks, you know? And sometimes you throw rocks just to see if you can hit something without breaking it. Well this little boy, the past didn't know the pastor was in his office watching him throw rocks And so he continued to throw rocks until unfortunately one of those rocks had more power behind it than he thought, and smash, the window came out. That pastor watched the little boy run off and knew exactly who he was and where he went. And so after a little bit, he went to find that young man, and but he took something with him. He knew that little boy loved to fish. And so he went and bought a brand new fishing pole. And when he came to the door, he knocked on the door, and the mother came to the door, and he said, um Is your son here? And she said, Yeah, I believe he is. He came in not long ago and he ran upstairs and in his room. I I I'll go get him if you want me to. And she and he said, sure, I'd like to talk to him. When she got to the bedroom door, she opened it and she called the little boy by name and said, you need to come out. The pastor's here he wants to talk to you. And that little boy with the guilty conscience and a dropped head thought the hammer's about to fall And he walked slowly down the stairs and to the door where the pastor was standing, and he said, the pastor said to his mother, Can I speak to him alone? And the little boy very sheepishly went out on the porch, and the pastor shut the door. He said, I want you to know I was watching what you were doing. He said, I saw you break the window. The little boy began to tremble, and he said, I'm sorry, and began to cry The pastor said, I want to teach you a lesson about something. Now, I don't know about you, but growing up, when somebody said, I want to teach you a lesson, it usually wasn't good. At least on my account, it was never good. And he said, I want to teach you a lesson. He said, number one, I want to show you a lesson in mercy. He said, I'm not going to say anything to your mother. I'm not going to say a word to your father. This broken window's between me and you, and it'll be fixed before anybody else knows. Number two, I want to show you a lesson on grace. Because I've got something for you that I know you really want. And he gave him that brand new fishing pole. You know something? That little boy never forgot that demonstration of mercy and grace. Mercy is when judgment is withheld. Grace is when blessings are given. And the Bible tells me that when God deals with man, he starts with mercy. If God were to mark iniquity, who would stand? But God is a God of infinite mercy. We not only see the source, but we see the springing. Look at this day spring. He says, the day spring from on high. By the way, to understand what that word means, turn it around. The springing of the day. It's that moment the light begins to shine or the sunrise See, Zacharias, do you understand that for 400 years heaven had been silent? From Malachi to now, Malachi to Zacharias. There was absolutely no prophecy. There was no word from heaven. God had sealed the heavens, and earth sat in utter darkness. But yet when John the Baptist was born, the herald of the Messiah, the forerunner of the Lord Jesus, all of a sudden activity was starting to happen again. A business was picking up and the the light sprang out. The day spring come up. When Jesus Christ was born, there was a light came on this earth. That has yet to be extinguished. The light of the world, the Lord Jesus Christ. Notice the significance of this sunrise. He visited us. He visited us. The Lord came down. The Lord came down. I'm going to steal my son's sermon. We went over to the nursing home today and took that in. And when he was reading that, I thought he better not preach from that text. Because I gotta preach from it tonight. And then he did. And it was good. And I I enjoyed it. He talked about how God visited this earth. How he visited in that stable. God came to the earth. The word was made flesh and dwelt among us. And then the Lord visited you and I in personal salvation. He's visited us. When you got saved, the Lord of heaven took residence in your heart. He visited you. He came to where you were. You didn't go find God. God came and found you. And he visited you. And one of these days he's coming again. He's going to visit the earth once more, this time to take his people home. And what a visitation that is. Listen, God came down. Why do we celebrate this birth? Why do we make such a big deal out of the reality that Christ was born? I'll tell you why. Because God became a man so that man could make it back to God. What a thing it is that God would come down. You know, when the sun rises, by the way, there's only one sun. The sun that shines here in Elkton, Maryland, it doesn't do it a lot anymore. At least we don't have to go home in a flood, hopefully, tonight. But the sun that shines here in Elkton, Maryland is the same sun that they enjoy in Australia. Only one sun. That sun that rises and warms our bodies and makes the food our plants grow so we can have food, there's only one sun And the whole world depends on that sun. And my friend, listen, that sun, singular, brings life to this planet. The Lord Jesus is the only Son of God. There's not two Jesuses or three. There's only one Jesus. And that same Jesus brings life to this whole planet. And the only hope we have is in him, the Son of God. Notice number three, and I'm through, the shining light, and we're going to illustrate that in a moment. In verse 79, the Bible says to give light to them that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death to guide our feet into the way of peace. Zachariah spoke of a shining light, a shining light. Look at these people who are sitting. Notice what it says: sitting in darkness. Sitting in darkness. I don't think anyone really likes darkness. I mean, likes it to the point that we'd as soon have darkness over light. Oftentimes the Bible describes the state of a man who's lost as living in darkness. We stumble. You ever get up in the night and there be no light in you? Stumble along. You you you go through the house, you know, my furniture gets moved around so much that I get up sometimes and I'm not sure that the path I'm used to taking is still available. There might be a chair there, or there might be something else. I don't know how many times I've ran into something and head over heels, and it wasn't there when I went to bed, I don't think. It certainly wasn't there the day before, I'm sure It gets moved around. It's dark. You can't see it. And that's the state of every person who's lost. They're stumbling through life and tripping and falling. And they don't know what they're tripping and falling over They're in darkness. They cannot see. They're not only in darkness, but they sit in death. The Bible says they sit in the shadow of death. And by the way, for there to be a shadow, there has to be some substance. You know the picture that's drawn here? They're sitting on the precipice of death. They're sitting in a place of great danger and don't know it. We were driving one occasion through the mountains, and it was very foggy and very dark, and We just, I mean you just had to concentrate. And it was actually during the Christmas season. We were driving from up north back to the Carolinas. And I had driven through there before. I knew what the road was like, but there were people who had come from there, from Nova Scotia, to to spend some time with us in the Carolinas. They traveled back a few days later in the daytime over that same trail, that same road. And I remember him calling me and saying, Did we drive through that place the night before? I said, Yes, we did. He said, I was scared to death in the daylight. He said there were no guardrails, and he said it was hundreds of feet down to the bottom. I said, yeah, that's the road. He said, Man, I'm glad there was somebody guiding me through that. We were in danger and didn't know it. And my precious friends, if you're not saved, you're in danger and you don't even know it. You're on the precipice. You're sitting on the shadow of death, and you're one heartbeat from an eternity without God. And listen, there's a light shining that says, come this way. The Bible says the light shines to guide our feet into the way of peace, to guide us back into that place of safety. That light is the Lord Jesus who says, I'm the way, the truth, and the life. Who says, Come and follow me. Who says to you, my friend, if you'll just follow the light, what's the light? The light's the truth The truth of God's word is shining a light and saying, hey, come this way. Come follow me. Come away from that place of danger. Come away from that place of death. And come and trust in me. My friend, listen, there is where you'll find peace. Oh, listen, this world, I think this world's on a mad pursuit of peace. I'll find peace if I find the right person. And they go from person to person to person. Because there's no peace in a person, in people. There's no relationship you can build that will bring great peace into your life. Oh, but if we could just get enough possessions and purchase enough things and have all the things that we want. All of those things will give me peace. And you know what we find out? The more we have, the less peace we have. The more troubled we become. Oh, but if I can just get a hold of the right substance, that'll give me the right feeling, then I'll have peace. And it may temporarily bring paralysis, but it'll never bring peace. But I'm telling you of someone who will bring peace. He's called the Prince of Peace. The precious Lord Jesus has been bringing peace for two thousand years. To men and women, boys and girls, teenagers and young adults, it don't matter who you are or where you're from or the background, I'm glad there's peace to be had in Jesus Christ. He'll show you. He's the way. He'll guide you into the way of peace. And that sh that great shining light. Started back yonder in the manger. We're going to try to illustrate that as we close this meeting. And I'm going to ask the men at the back if you would go ahead. Dr. Hitchens, will you help me and Brother Andy? Mar