This morning that the blessed hope of our glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, the Lord Jesus, is very real. And I hope you have that hope this morning. Trust that you know the word Jesus as your personal Savior. I want you to take your Bibles and go with me to the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew chapter 19. And I'm going to read three verses here in your hearing. Matthew chapter 19. And I'm going to start reading in verse number 13 down to 15. And when you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please, as we read God's Word. Matthew chapter number 19. Beginning in verse number 13. The Bible says, Then were there brought unto him little children, that he should put his hands on them and pray. And the disciples rebuked them. But Jesus said, Suffer, little children, and forbid them not to come unto me. For of such is the kingdom of heaven. And he laid his hands on them and departed thence. I want to preach this morning with the help of the Lord on this subject, little children. And I want you to pray with me that the Lord would help me to communicate the burden that is in my heart. I'm going to read uh after we pray interceded the other two gospel accounts Matthew Mark and Luke all three record this event but all three give us a little bit different detail than the other And I think it's important that we see all of the views of what happened here. But needless to say, the Lord Jesus sanctioned his love for little children on this day. Let's pray. Father, we do need your help afresh. We always need thy help, O Lord. But we certainly have come to a very serious moment of preaching and hearing the Word of God. And Lord, we confess as we bow our heads before you that both preacher and hearer need help. Lord, we ask that you would undertake, and Lord, just please speak to us as only you can. Have your will and way. We'll give you the glory. We pray above everything the Lord Jesus will be lifted up and set forth. That Lord you'd hide me behind the cross and help me rightly exalt the person of Jesus Christ. And Lord, I pray you'd do the work that's needed. We'll give you all the glory, for we're all desperately needy. But we're also very grateful. We're grateful that, Lord, you're God, and beside you there's no other. We're grateful, Lord, that you'd take notice of the likes of us and save us from our sin by the precious blood of Jesus. We thank you, Lord, for your mercy and your goodness. We just ask now, help us, please. In Jesus' matchless name, God's people said , Amen, you can be seated. I'm coming back to the Gospel of Matthew, but I'd like for you to go to the book of Mark. And Mark chapter number 10, we're going to read Mark's account. Mark chapter number 10, beginning in verse number 13. Mark chapter 10, verse number 13. The Bible says, and they brought young children to him that he should touch them. And his disciples rebuked those that brought them. But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not. For of such is the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto you: whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein. And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them. I want you to look at one more place, the Gospel of Luke, Luke chapter number 18. Luke chapter number eighteen and verse number fifteen The Bible says, and they brought unto him also infants that he would touch them. But when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them unto him and said, Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not. For of such is the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto you, whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein. Those are the three gospel accounts of this encounter with the little children, with the infants. You say, which was it? Well, it was all of them. Each gospel writer would just give us a different emphasis of what was brought, or who was brought rather, to the Lord Jesus. This stands to me as a just a tender moment in the ministry of the Lord. It comes on the heels of a very troublesome moment because the Pharisees were trying to corner him, and in doing so they said, Now, Master, is it lawful to put your wife away? And our Lord begins to deal with them and teach them a truth about the home. Then these little children are all brought around the Lord. Can you imagine that scene? You just I try to imagine it sometimes in my mind how these little children were brought. It says infants, there were little b babies that had to be carried. There were little toddler children that were brought along according to the uh the Gospel of Matthew. There were others that were probably a little larger, little older children. But all of these little children just surrounding the Lord. And the desire was that he would put his hand on them and bless them and pray for them. My outline is very simple this morning. I want you to see the children brought, the disciples distraught, and Jesus taught. All right? I hope that'll stick. But the children brought and the disciples distraught and then Jesus taught. I want you to see with me this morning these children who were brought to the Lord. I'm back in Matthew Matthew chapter 19 and verse 13, then were there brought unto him little children. Of necessity, little children have to be taken places. These children were dependent upon somebody to bring them to the Lord Jesus. I think it's commendable that these folks were in this company of people who were listening to the Lord. I heard a man say I had a drug problem growing up. And you know, living in the day that we do, you think, okay, I wonder what he got hooked on or what it was that got uh he got uh captured by. But he said, Oh no, I wasn't drugged that way. He said I was drugged to church. He said I was drug on Sunday morning, drug on Sunday night, drug on Wednesday night. How many of you had that drug problem And aren't you glad for it? Thank God for it. These little children were brought to the Lord Jesus. They were brought to him I want you to notice several things about it. Number one, the occasion that brought them there. If you'll go back in the chapter, you'll notice in verse 3 of Matthew chapter 19 that the Pharisees also came unto him. Tempting him and saying unto him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause? Now you'll notice this wasn't a genuine question. Although let me say this, the Lord's going to give them a genuine answer. They weren't sincere about what they were asking, but what Jesus spoke was the truth. And he goes on to say this, and he answered and said unto them, Have you not read that he which made them at the beginning made them male and female? Maybe that needs to be heard again. He which made them, by the way, God made them. And God made you and God made me and He made us what we are. But at the beginning He made them male and female. You know what's interesting to me that when Art we were watching a Uh Dr. Hitchens narrated visit there to the Holy Land. Isn't it interesting when they do archaeology that they identified the remains as only male or female? That's all I mean when they digged them up, that's okay, this was the body of a male, it's the body of a female. You know why? That's how God made them. That's how God made them And he said, verse number five, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they twain shall be one flesh. Now this is going all the way back to the garden when God made Adam and Eve, and he said that he made them one flesh. He put those two together. And said, now this is my doing. And by the way, you know, it's interesting to me that when God looked at everything He made, He said, it was very good. It was very good. Do you know all goodness comes from the Lord? It emanates from his character because God alone is good, and all that God does is good. Now man gets a hold of it, messes it up But until man gets a hold of it, it's in the hand in the hands of the Lord, it is good. That's what he said, it's good. Verse number six Wherefore? They are no more twain, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. Now these I'm going to call them Bible critics. They say unto him, Why did Moses then command to give a writing of divorcement and to put her away? So it's interesting to me that here uh they're taking the Bible and trying to teach the author. Isn't that foolish? Try to tell God what he what he wrote, and that's what they're doing here. But he saith unto them, Moses, because of the hardness of your hearts, suffered you to put away your wives. But from the beginning it was not so. We lived just outside of Black Mountain, North Carolina, and there is where uh Billy and Ruth Graham had their home. And I'll never forget on a local radio, or or excuse me, a local television station, WLOS, the uh Channel 13. They were interviewing them one evening in the news. They're sitting on that big, beautiful port looking over those black mountains and The interviewer said to Ruth, she said, she was a very quiet, generally person, she said, Did you ever contemplate divorce after all these years? They've been married a long time. And she looked with dead seriousness. She said, divorce never. Murder, a time. So I I'm saying that that God said from the beginning it was just not so Amen. Jesus goes on to say, and I say unto you, whosoever shall put away his wife, except it be for fornication, shall marry another, committeth adultery. And whoso marrieth her which is put away doth commit adultery. Now let me stop there and say this. Jesus is teaching some hard truth on the home, some straight truth, and here's what happens. All of a sudden, these parents start bringing these children to Jesus. All of a sudden, these moms and dads, and maybe grandmoms and granddads, maybe aunts and uncles, maybe uh cousins, it doesn't tell us that it was parents. We assume that obviously because of the age of the children. But here's what they did. They understood That if those children stood a chance, they needed the blessing of God on their lives. And they brought them to the Lord Jesus. We're awful worr worried in the culture that that we're in today. We're awful worried in this culture about getting our children educated. Now look, I'm not against education. You hear me speak, you might think I am, but the reality is I'm not. And I I don't I don't down it. I I think you ought to get all the education you can, and like the old mountain preacher said, can all you get But you you you need to get, listen, I'm not against that. And we we want our children. We we do everything in our power to make our children prosperous and get them to a place of prosperity. But my dear friend, if we do all of that and fail to get them to Jesus Christ, we failed them miserably. All of the prosperity and all of the education and all of the opportunities will just simply make them educated, prosperous, hell-bound sinners. They need the Lord Jesus Christ. And we live in a culture today that has designed and and built itself in such a way that our children are becoming against God. They're turned against the Lord. They're programmed even to think contrary to what the Word of God says. You say, oh, that's just a coincidence. I don't believe it. I believe it's a planned, purposeful event organized by the devil who wants to damn and destroy everybody he can. You take children and you teach them things that are not true according to the Bible, and they they begin to ask, which is true? Do I believe the Bible or do I believe the teacher in the curriculum or whatever? And I'm saying to you, my friend. That the most important thing that is resting on your shoulders is to bring those children to Christ, to bring them to the Lord Jesus. They need him more than they need air in their lungs. They need him more than they need a beating heart. Listen, they need the Lord Jesus. These mothers and dads are hearing this. Jesus is saying, hey, this is what was intended. This is the beginning. This is how I created everything. And they began to see, oh, how these children need the Lord. And they began to bring these little children. So we see the occasion of it, but we also see an opportunity in it because, as the Bible says, they wanted him to bless them. Now we've got to understand something about their culture because the culture of those people is very prominent throughout the teaching of the Bible. And in their culture, it was very customary to bring at least a one-year-old child to the rabbi to put his hands on to bless them. These parents were not interested so much in the age restriction as they were in the blessing that they desired to come from the Lord himself. And so they brought little infants and they brought little children and they brought others, toddlers, and so on. And they brought these children and they said, Lord, we want you to bless them. We want you, as one of the gospel writers put it, I believe it was Mark, said, I want you to pray for them. I want you to put your hands on them. Can you imagine what an opportunity this must have been? But for the Lord Himself to put his and and I wish the Bible had more detail sometimes. I wish we knew names and and something of and and I wish somewhere down the road it was recorded what happened to these little children. Be it'd be something to see. Um it was said of a little boy who sat On Brother Roland Hill. He was a Free Methodist preacher in England. And there was a little boy sat on his lap, and as he sat there, that young man, that old man began to cry. And he looked at that little boy and said, I can't help but sense that God has something special for him. And he put his hand on that little boy and he prayed for him. And that little boy pastored the Metropolitan Tabernacle there in London. His name was Charles Spurgeon. He said, I just sense. Can you imagine the Lord Jesus as he held those little boys and those little girls and he picked them up, he put his hands on their little uh heads, and he blessed them and he prayed over them? What an opportunity. What an opportunity. You see, the God of heaven had come down in human form. He was the incarnate Son of God. Here he stands among them, and the God of heaven's putting his hand on those little children. What an opportunity. You know, we want our children to have opportunities. We want our kids to see things and do things, and that's all well and good. You know, it's a wonderful thing to seek those things for your children. But there are some things that you can't put a price tag on For the hand of God to come on your children, and for the God of heaven to do something special in their heart. That ought to be the desire of everyone. And you say, well, preacher, my kids are grown. We still ought to desire it You say, well, preacher, I don't have any kids to moan. Find one that you can desire it for. And say, oh God, that you would just put your hand on them. What an opportunity this was. But let me just say something before I move on about these children who were brought. It's something that's quite obvious, I believe, in the text. Somebody had to bring them. If I were to say brother uh brother Mike, I I I want uh Brooke to come up here. Whoa She ain't gonna walk. Unless something's happened between last Sunday and this Sunday. Those grub children are special in abilities. But I don't think she's walking yet Somebody's gonna have to carry her. Somebody's gonna have to bring her. Do you get what I'm trying to say? You know by nature, you you let children, I hear people say foolish things like this, let them decide for themselves. That's foolish. That's the height of ignorance. Do you let them play in the road if they want to play in the road? Of course not. You say, well, I I I don't want to I don't want to influence them. You better because the devil will. He'll fill a vacuum. He'll come along and he'll push them the way he wants them to go. Hey, it's time we get proactive about this thing and realize that children need someone to tell them what to do. Children need instruction. They need teachers. They need loving guides. They need individuals who will say, This is the way, walk ye in it. They need somebody with compassion and conviction and courage to say, look, this is the direction. Listen, we're it this is so foreign to our culture today. Because in our culture today, we say, well, let the children make up their mind. There are a lot of things I don't like to eat. All right? I know it don't look like it, but there are a lot of things I don't like to eat. But when I was a little boy, I had no choice. Now you might think my parents cruel, but when I sat down I had to eat what they put there. If it was broccoli, I had to eat broccoli. Those little green trees. If it was something I mean you just had to do, right? And you know what? I thank God they did. You say did you get away from it? No, I got married and I still have to eat what I get put in front of. Amen And it's probably better for me than a do, because if I had what I wanted, it'd be ice cream and cake. Breakfast, lunch, and supper. Amen. But the reality is, my friend, that children need instruction. You ever notice to let a child do what it wants to do, it leads to destruction? We don't do things that are profitable left on our own. But you'll see here that they brought them. They brought them to Jesus. They realized that, and listen, my friend, I know we're getting ready to start Bible school. This isn't just a Bible school message, but the reality is somebody needs to get a burden to bring children to Jesus. We've got a whole generation that have parents that don't care. Or that maybe even at worst are against seeing them come to Christ. And yet those children have souls and they need the Lord. And my friend, somebody needs to say, hey, I'm going to bring whoever God lets come in my path, I'm going to bring those children to Jesus. Some of you have family that need you have children in your family, extended family, cousins, what have you. Those children need to be brought to Jesus. If you don't make an effort to do it, nobody will. They need to be brought to the Lord Jesus. You see, there's a responsibility on the people of God to see that the next generation hears the good news. You know, God set up the family in the Old Testament, so that one generation to the next would be taught who God is You read Deuteronomy 6, they were supposed to take the law of God. They were to talk about it in the house, post it on the walls. It was to be on the gates. I mean everywhere they went. Somebody was to be telling and instructing and pointing them to the Lord. And now we we live in a culture where that don't happen. We've had children sit in this building, in this Sunday school, who had never held a Bible nor opened one. And we're in Cecil County, Maryland. We're not in some far tucked away place that that that we would uh think about needing mission work. And I'm not talking about 10 years ago, 20 years, I'm talking about just weeks ago And have no clue who's Jesus. What I mean, what's what's all of that about? Never heard anything about that. But I guarantee you, if you could ask them Some of the uh things that that are happening right now. Who who's the top rock song or top singer or tell me the lyrics of some famous rap? Then I guarantee you they can spit it out like the alphabet. Because that's important. This this society's become so absorbed in its insanity. that we're we're it we're stressing vanity while we're neglecting reality and truth. And my friend, somebody's got to say these kids need Jesus. Somebody's got to get a burden and say they need the Lord. Now there's something about kids that's innate in them. They're a whole lot of work. Amen. Kids are just work. They're messy. They don't go according to your schedule. They don't generally do things you want em to. I mean they're a lot of work And the re that's just the reality. And by the way, they need somebody who says, I don't care about all that. That's the peripheral things. That's what's got to be done. Because the reality is they still need the Lord. My dear wife and I was took my first church and we were pastoring out there. There was a mobile home park not far away and we had an old van, uh Chevrolet van, and uh when I first went to start it, it blew two of the spark plugs out. And so had to get somebody to work on it, and he got it to where it would just run good enough to get there and back. And we started bringing these kids in. And these children come from a real difficult background and a lot of poverty in that community. And these children have never been in church. And I'll tell you something, it seemed like those first few years that we replaced more things than not, that was broken and all of that. And boy, I had a deacon in that church that got very uh upset and he was mad in every business meeting he would come along and he would say, uh He'd raise his hand. He'd say, uh, we had to replace a faucet, so-and-so. One of those bus kids, or van kids, he called them, he said, one of those vans, van kids broke it. And then we'd go on and be something else every single week. Every single week. And so finally, finally, I said to him one morning, I said, Brother Jimmy, These kids are not here to do us any good. We're here to hopefully do them some good. He he he had the audacity to say one time in a deacon's meeting, uh he now he's in heaven now. I don't know if the Lord's letting him hear it, but he he knows better now and he knew better before all that was over. But he said, you know what? They don't contribute one dime. And I'm glad to tell you there came a point in Jimmy's life where God broke his heart. And I'll never forget we were needing something that that needed to be taken care of and and uh in regards to the bus children and after God had broken his heart he stood up in the in the business meeting, he said, I want you to know I'm gonna do it, I'll pay for it, I'll fix it. He said, I think maybe we can do them some good. We need to get here. We need to do something to get these kids here. God changed his heart. He realized that somebody's got to bring them to Jesus. Church, somebody's got to bring kids to Christ. Yes, it's a lot of work. Yes, there's a lot of difficulty. Yes, there's obstacles abounding. And there's all sorts of extra work. But I'll tell you something, their little souls are worth it. May God help us to see that. Jesus didn't say turn them away. He said let them come. He said bring them. Bring them. He sanctioned the effort to say bring them to Jesus. So we see the children brought. Will you get involved with that? Number two, the disciples were distraught. Look at what they did. It says the disciples rebuked them. The disciples rebuked them. You know what they did? They stood out and said, hey, don't bring them in here. Those children aren't welcome here. Isn't that a sad thing? They've been around Jesus all this time, and they look at those children as a bother. They might have been in the presence of Christ, but they didn't have the nature of Christ. They might have been hanging around the things of the Lord, but they didn't have the attitude of the Lord. And they rebuked them. They said, hey, no, no, no, no, those children can't come. Those children aren't allowed. Those children aren't permitted. Those children there you you you can't bring them here. The master's too busy. He's dealing with some adult stuff. He doesn't need the aggravation or the distraction of those children. I'm going to tell you something. Children ought to be more welcome. And they ought to be made to feel welcome. It's something about a kid. They see through what adults don't. A lot of times adults can't see through the facade that we get used to living in, but not children. And when a children doesn't when a child doesn't feel welcome, and when a child feels that, you know, you're not welcome here. Oh God help us. We don't have the nature of Christ. We don't have the Spirit of the Lord. These disciples, you say, why did they do that? Well, number one, their culture. You see, I I read it already about the Pharisees that came unto him. Do you know it was cultural taboo to have children present when religious things were being discussed. You didn't do that. They weren't welcome. They the synagogue, that area where the teaching went on, children those children aren't to be there. They're talking about grown-up things. They're discussing things they can't understand. And let me just back up and say this. We have a children's church and a junior church, and we do that as we try to minister. But there comes a time when children need church. Because they can learn. You say, oh preacher, they they won't understand. They'll understand more than you ever thought. Their little minds can absorb more truth than you realize. And listen, they need to be around the people of God. They need to see and hear the people of God sing hymns, and they need to hear the Word of God preach, and they need to see the power of God work in people's lives. They need to understand it's real. It's not just something that happens in a particular spot. It's the working of God. They need to be exposed to that. I heard this morning a message on a radio station back in North Carolina, my pastor preaching it back in the late 70s. I more than likely was there. And I can still remember as a little boy standing up on the back pew because mom said we were such rotten kids, she had to keep us next to the door so we could get our beaten if we had it, had to need to get it, you know. And I remember standing back there, I was five years old. And I remember just thinking, somebody's here I can't see. There was something change in the in the service and there was joy and and and God was working and and I couldn't figure it out. I I still to this day can relive that service Standing on that pew and I'm looking around and these old saints are praising the Lord and the preacher's up there preaching, and I'm thinking, man, there's somebody here, and I can't figure it out who he is. I can't see him, but I know he's here. You say, oh, that's mystical. No, that's biblical. God was there. God was there, and my young heart was impressed as at an early age. that my God is real. The God of heaven is a real God and He's able to work among His people. Our children need that. Our children need that. Is there any small wonder that they go to the world? Our churches are dead as last year's bird's nest, dried up and dusty. And man, they go to a concert or they go somewhere in the world and there's life and there's enthusiasm and there's excitement. And I'm here to tell you that same thing, not in that same principle, but that same thing ought to be in the house of God God's people ought to be alive and enthusiastic and have life about them. You know why? Because we have eternal life. We have real life, true life, not the fake counterfeit that the devil offers. We have the real life That's found in the Lord Jesus Christ. But I want you to see something. Their culture crept in, made them disobedient to Christ. Oh, we don't want to upset the Pharisees. Their concern was that they didn't want to go against culture because they wanted to be in keeping with Jesus Christ. They were not concerned about what Jesus was pleased with. They were concerned about these Pharisees going to be upset. Listen, I'm going to tell you something. There's some Pharisees that just need to get upset. And there's some Pharisees that just need to get upset over the truth and let the Lord Jesus uh straighten them out if they will. If not, then they just need to go their merry way, because the reality is, my friend, our culture is not more prominent than our Christ. Marinath the Baptist Church not interested in reflecting the norm. Because the norm 's messed up. I want to reflect the truth. The truth of thus saith the Lord. I want you to notice not only their concern, but I want you to see what Christ did. I read it in Mark 10. It says he was much displeased. That's a Bible way of saying he got real mad. He just mad. What was he mad about? He was mad over the fact these men wouldn't let Jesus or the children get to Jesus. He was much displeased. He was mad. My friend, it's we don't often think of this, but There were several occasions in Jesus' ministry where he got mad. I don't think he was grinning like a Cheshire cat and chewing chewing gum when he kicked the tables of the money changers over And made a whip and drove him out. I don't think he was ple I don't think he was joyful about that thing. He was mad. He was mad. And he got mad at these men because they wouldn't let those children come to him I'll tell you something. I don't ever want to be standing in the way of anybody getting to him. Especially children. You say, why children? You know what he said? He has a he has a a high view of children. You read over there in Matthew 18, says you offend one of these little ones, it's better for you to have a mealstone hung about your neck and drown. That's what he said. That's what Jesus said. He loved listen, I believe that's why this thing of abortion is such an abomination in the eyes of God. He's got a high view of little children He's got a great love for little children. These these children uh uh corner a an affection or a tenderness in his heart. You know, children can do something to people Hard people. Tough people. You ever watch a big old man get on his knees and talk baby talk to a little baby? You know what does that? That that tender place in his heart for those little children And I'm telling you that the Lord Jesus has a place of tenderness for children. He got mad when they said, No, no, don't bother him. I don't believe children are ever a bother. To the Lord Jesus Christ. We see the disciples were were distraught. Now let me quickly get to this. Then Jesus taught Jesus said in verse number 14, Suffer little children, and forbid them not to come unto me. For of such is the kingdom of heaven. And he laid his hands on them and departed thence. I want you to notice first, he gave an invitation. He said, suffer. That is allow, permit. Let those little children come. Let them come to me. They need me. Can I say this: there's no better time for a child or for a person to come to the Lord than as a child. Don't ever discourage a move towards God in a young heart. Oh, but I want to make sure they're sincere. Let the Lord worry about that. Use wisdom. Use wisdom. I don't believe we ought to take our children and try to evangelize them in mass because children will just generally do what you ask them to do. We need to be careful with our children, but listen, don't ever discourage and move towards God. Let those children come. Let those children pray. Let them talk about the things of God. Let them be around the things of God. He gave an invitation. He said, bring them. And I don't think it was just a narrow invitation. That meant those children right there. I believe it was a broad, eternal invitation that says to all children everywhere, let them come to me. Let them come. Let them come. You think about these little children coming to the Lord. I hear people say, well, they're just children. Okay? What does that mean? God does things in children. You know, I read, I just read, what was it, on Thursday? In the northern part of Scotland, a great revival took place. You know who led it as far as the prayer movement towards it? Children. The preacher had a group of kids, about 20 of them, between eight and thirteen. And they went to the pastor and said, can we have a prayer meeting in the parsonage? The man 's as they call it there And he said they would meet once a week at night and pray in the evening, and that 8 to 13-year-olds would pray for God to do something in their community. Many of them had unconverted parents. Many of them were were subject to living the horrible lifestyle of having parents who were intoxicated, hooked on alcohol. And he said that it broke his heart to stand at a distance and hear those we ones weep and cry out to God. You say what happened? The God of heaven heard their prayers. And God visited that community. And I'll tell you what was noted as one of the worst communities in Scotland became a beaming light for Christ because a group of little children got a burden to pray. Don't tell me God can't do something with children. Oftentimes God can do more with a child than he can an adult because their hearts are so hard and stubborn. Read your Bible. Daniel or David was just a little boy. Daniel, uh, Shadrach, Meshach, but they were young boys. They were young. That little maid that that that uh God used to instruct Naaman She was little. God uses those little things, little ones. You say, but preacher, we they're they're just children. They don't know what they're doing. Oh listen, I would never discourage a child if a child said, I believe God wants me to be a missionary. I know several on the field today. They were eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve years old, and they said, God's called me to be a missionary. Now you come along and say, Oh, you can't do that because you're a child. I believe you're doing what makes Jesus mad. Because he might just whisper in the ear of that little child, I want you to be on the mission field. And it may very well be that God will do that in their lives as they follow him. Listen, my friend, God says, let these little children come. Let these little children come. Don't hinder them. Don't get in the way. Don't have an attitude that would drive them away Don't don't have a thinking or a theology, if you will, that says, oh, children just don't know what they're doing. Don't tell me that. God saved me when I was eight years old, and I know he did. I know he did. I know what he was doing. God called me to preach when I was sixteen. He was calling much earlier, but I wasn't listening and running. But I'll tell you something, God was doing some things, and listen, he can work in a young child's heart. Often that heart's not polluted with the things of the world yet. Now the great challenge now is that we've got five-year-olds that know more than some twenty-year-olds used to know. And their little minds are polluted and their hearts have been hardened, and oh how we need to pray, God break it. And God get through that darkness and reach them. But he gave an invitation. Then he gave an illustration. He said, For such is the kingdom. And can I just say this? He says here the kingdom of heaven, another place, the kingdom of God. We're not talking about two kingdoms but one. He's talking about salvation. He said, if you're going to get saved, you've got to be like his children. If you're going to come to me in salvation, whether you're a great big Pharisee standing in the temple ordering people, or whether you're one of these little children that's just coming so innocently to me, if you're gonna get saved, you've got to come like a child. You say, what do you mean? You gotta come like a child in ability. Child's helpless. If it gets somewhere, a little brook gets somewhere, you gotta carry her. You gotta take her. I can still see my little little Sarah when she was little. She was scared to death of all of her cousins. They were loud and noisy and running around everywhere. She was quiet and shy, and I can still see her when we'd go to my mom and dad's. She'd run up and grab my britches, legs like that, and she'd go. And she had the scaredest look on her face. Hold me, hold me. These crazies are going to carry me off They'd grab her and carry her around like a baby doll. She hated that. But listen, you had you had to reach down. She couldn't get away. She couldn't climb something. She couldn't escape. She needed help Jesus said, if you come to me, don't come in your proud religious garb. You come as a lost, helpless sinner. Lord, if you don't save me, there's no salvation for me. Come in ability like a child. Come in acceptance like a child. Do you know little children just accept there's a faith in a child that I marvel at? They believe what you say, they believe things you tell them. You'll forgive me for my ignorance, but I was a young pastor and dealing with some real mean children. And man, they were just tearing, they were just doing all sorts of crazy things. And out of exasperation one day, I said, if you kids don't behave, we keep alligators in that part of the church. I doubt any of them had ever seen an alligator. And you know what? I've got I'm friends with some that are adults now, and they say, Preacher, do you remember when you told us there were alligators in there? Some of them believed it. Little remember Emily? Little Emily Cook. She believed it. She went to her mom and dad and said, Preacher says we keep alligators in there. I didn't say anything other than they're in there, and it quieted them down. They just accept it. It may not sound reasonable, it may not sound rational, it may not sound logical, but they believe it. You know what Jesus said? By the way, nothing he says is irrational or illogical. Everything he says is true, and he says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, and he means every word of it. And if you're going to get saved, you've just got to accept what he says. You say, Oh, but preacher, I need something more. Well, you need more than what God will give you. You want more than what He's willing to give you. Take Him at His Word. Take Him at His Word. We 've got to come. If you're going to be saved, you're here lost. You've got to come like a little child. Don't you know that graded on those proud old Pharisees? As they stood in their religious clothing and their broad phylacteries, and they looked, oh, they looked awful religious and awful pious. But he says, you see this little old baby, this little old snotty-nosed boy standing here around me, you've got to come like he did. You know what that tells me? There's only one way to salvation. It's through the Lord Jesus Christ. God don't save some one way and another another. There's only one way, and Jesus is that way. Jesus is that way. And then I see the invocation. I'm going to close here. You'll see that he laid hands on them, took them up in his arms, and he blessed them. My ma. What these kids went home with that day , you're not going to buy it in a store. You're not going to get it at the university. You're not going to get it out here in the culture. They went home with the smile of heaven on their little hearts. He prayed and blessed them. He prayed and blessed them. Oh, how I wished the Bible said something about them. Who were they? What did he do in their life? What happened down the road? I assure you this, we're gonna find out in heaven one day. When we get home to heaven, we're going to meet some of those little children who grew up to be adults, and we're going to hear the full story of what that blessing brought in their lives. Let me say this, the blessing of the Lord. Here's what the Bible says, Proverb, the blessing of the Lord maketh rich and addeth no sorrow to it. In other words, not talking about material things either. There's a wealth that you don't measure in dollar and cents. There's a wealth that you don't measure in a portfolio. There is a wealth. Hey. Oh, if we just had some kids that knew God You know, I seen this the other day, there's going to come a time when I can't do my praying no more. I hope I'm raising some that'll pray for me. It 's gonna come a time I can't fight the fight anymore. I hope there'll be somebody I've raised that'll be fighting for me I'm telling you, my friend, there's an invocation here as the Lord blessed these children and took them up in his arms. Oh, how tender that is, as he holds them little babies. And this wasn't a political stunt. This was a precious demonstration of the love God has for little children. And he blessed them. Could we desire more? What more do we want for our kids? If we really follow the Lord in this thing, we'll care about kids. We'll be concerned enough to get them to Jesus. That'll be our main concern. It ought to be the concern of everything we do. Why do we have Bible school? We want some kids to come to Jesus. Why do we have Sunday school? We got some kids we want to bring to Jesus. Why don't we keep the academy open? There's some kids we want to bring to Jesus. Folks, there's the hope of this generation. It's in the Lord Jesus and Him alone. And I'll just say this, He's the hope of all of us, whatever our generation be. He's our hope. And if you don't know him, you're sorely lacking. You're lost. Undone. And your only hope is the Lord Jesus. But if you do know him, you've got a solemn responsibility to help transmit to the next generation there is a God. He has a son named Jesus, who's God, the very God. And he died on an old rugged cross and he shed his blood and he rose again the third day. He's coming. We need to be telling our children this is reality. Oh, how I pray. We our children live in such a virtual world. Everything's virtual. It's visible but unreal. It's un it's intangible. Not the Lord. He's real. He's real. You can know him. Live your life for him. Pillow your head one day when it comes time to die and go be with him. Because he's real. Need to communicate that church. Well we got a we got a big responsibility on our shoulders. We need to help the Lord to do it We need the help of the Lord. Hey, my friend, listen, we need to get kids to Jesus. We need to bring them to Jesus. Would you stand with me, please? Our pianists, if you'll