And I'm glad they sing for the Lord. They're a blessing to us in doing so. Well, I want you to open your Bibles. Brother Darrell, it's good to see you tonight. We're praying for you, brother. Church family, I know, is holding you up. Asking the Lord to be the God of all comfort, grace, and he sure is faithful. I know that. We're praying, and good to see you this evening. But The Lord's directed me another way. I was going to preach in the Revelation from the Revelation again. I'm going to do a little pastoring tonight, if you'll let me. I want to preach out of Romans chapter 12 for just a moment And begin reading with me in verse number 14. I'm going to read quite a lengthy part of the Bible here. So if you'll just kind of follow along, we'll remain seated this evening. We'll read down to the end of the chapter. These two words really get my attention here. And they're found in verse number 18, which will be our text. And those two words just very simply say, live peaceably. Live peaceably. So Romans chapter number twelve, beginning in verse number fourteen, the Bible says, Bless them which persecute you Bless and curse not. Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep. Be of the same mind one toward another. Mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits Recompense to no man evil or evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, here are the two words, live peaceably with all men. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine. I will repay, saith the Lord. Therefore, if thine enemy hunger, feed him. If he thirst, give him drink. For in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good. Go back up to verse number 18, please, and look again at that statement. Live peaceably with all men. Live peaceably with all men. Father, please help us now. We bow in Jesus' name and pray you'll undertake and you'll give wisdom and grace. Hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. Have your will in this gathering and get glory and honor and praise. Father, I thank you that the Bible has the answer for all things in life. I thank you, Lord, that the direction we need and the help that we need is all going to come from the same place. So Lord, grant it this evening and undertake, and we'll praise you and thank you, for we ask these things now. And Father, in these few moments, please empty me of me, empty me of me and fill me with thee. In Jesus' strong name. And God's people said. I don't think I have to belabor the point that this world is a troubled place. with all men, it almost sounds like an impossibility. Not only is the world a troubled place, but many homes are filled with turmoil. Schools have been turned into war zones. Our highways are filled with road rage. Our churches have become battlefields, and social media is like walking through landmines. Yet God says, I want you to live peaceably. Live peaceably You see, if you follow the Lord Jesus Christ, you will be distinctly different He'll make something out of you that you currently are not, and he will do things in your life that around the world around hardly knows anything about because it's so foreign to how how they live and what they know. Live peaceably. As I study this passage of Scripture, I find that he uses this statement, as much as lieth in you. He said, Preacher, what does that mean? Well, there are some things that I believe God can put in us that will make this more possible than it currently may be Romans 12, 2, just a little further up in the chapter, says, Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Now my Bible and your Bible will put some things in you that will enable you to live like God wants you to live. So live peaceably. Live peaceably. There are some things in this chapter and in the text I just read that'll help us do that You know, God's people ought to be known. One of the beatitudes is this. Blessed are the You got it. For they shall be called what? The children of God. God's people ought to have a trademark of being able to live Peaceably. You know, I was thinking as the choir was singing. I uh you couldn't put together any more perfect singing or songs than what we heard here this evening And as they were singing that song, I will meet you in the morning. My mind immediately went back. The first little church I pastored, we had a new choir director. I'd only been there 30 days And he got up on a Sunday night during practice and chewed our little people out because they said meet you instead of meet you. Did you hear the difference? I listened distinctly. I was listening for the meat ewes, and we got some meat ewes in there. There's the meetus back there. And I got to thinking. And man he he let those dear little people have it about how, you know, we need to pronounce properly and and I'm like, boy, some of us are just getting a good hold on the English. You're trying to get us straightened out. You go you you come a little bit too late. But you know I got to thinking about it. Whether it's meet you or meet you, it does not matter if you want to live peaceably. If you want to live peaceably. The Bible makes it very clear here that the command of God, this is not a suggestion, this is a command of the Lord that we live peaceably with all men. And by the way, you can't live peaceably with all men until you learn to live peaceably with those that are nearest to you. And you'll notice he uses that word in verse 19, dearly beloved. He's talking to a Christian bunch, a saved crowd. So let's look at some things that I believe will help us live this truth out, live peaceably. If you're making notes tonight, I want you to notice number one, we ought to be a blessing. If you look in verse number 14, the Bible says, Bless them which persecute you, bless and curse not. Do you know that root word that is used here is the root word for our English word eulogy? The word literally means to invoke a blessing or speak favorably. Now the Bible says if you want to live peaceably with all men, you seek to be a blessing Invoke a blessing. Do you ever notice it seems like we live in a world where people are on edge? And it's not a blessing they want to invoke. Man, it's thundering. It's they're sort of like the uh the sons of thunder that the Lord Jesus had to deal with. And you remember when they were rejected in a certain place, they said, Lord, do you want us to call down fire? We'll just burn them up. That's the opposite of bless them which persecute you. They said, Lord, we can do it. We we we know that we can. I mean they had such confidence in the Lord. They said, you know, if we just call , they rejected you, let's just scorch them all. No, that isn't what God wants us to do, is it? Bless them which persecute you. The Bible tells us very clearly here that we ought to strive to invoke a blessing. And you know where we start? We start with the enemy. We start with those individuals that want to do us harm. We say, God help me to be a blessing. I've got a picture in my mind that was drawn by a dear friend of mine, first pastor I worked for as an assistant, and when he went to Romania to minister. He stayed there a few months. And he was preaching in Romania during the resurrection time as they celebrated the resurrection Lord's Day And they had the custom, those churches there in that part of Romania had a custom that on Resurrection Lord's Day, they would take the life of a lamb. And they would take that lamb after they had taken its life, and they would make a meal and have a fellowship meal together over that lamb and with that lamb, reminding them that Jesus Christ died for their sin. What a thing he put in my mind as he talked about they thought it an honor to have the guests to be the one who took the life of that lamb. And Terry said it was the hardest thing he had ever done. But he said what compounded it was when he took the knife to take the little lamb's life, that some of its blood fell on his hand. And instinctively that lamb licked that blood off of his hand as it was dying. That's bless them which curse you. That's bless them. That persecution. I'm going to tell you what, that takes God in your heart. That takes the power of the Holy Ghost inside of you to enable you to do what I'm talking about doing. You ought to seek to be a blessing. If the if the Attitude of my life is Lord, I want to be a blessing. I've read recently some things about the martyrs and I marvel at some of the attitudes those people had towards the people who imprisoned them. And the men who mistreated them as they were kept under lock and key, some stocks and bonds, I mean they were in bad shape. Yet there was a care, there was a tenderness. I've read of disease outbreaks in these places where the martyrs, some of the martyrs were kept. And oftentimes the very people that had placed them in there would fall sick, and these prisoners would care for those individuals. That's bless them which persecute you. Bless and curse not. By the way We live in a world in fact and this this really grieves me to the core, there are a lot of independent Baptists that think that reads, blast them, not bless them You know I'm telling the truth. Bless them, the Bible says, which persecute you. Bless and curse not. Number two, not only do we need to strive to be a blessing, but we ought to consider others. Look what the next verse says, verse 15: Rejoice with them that do rejoice. And weep with them that weep. Be, look at this statement, of the same mind, one toward another. He's talking about here entering into the joys and sorrows of others. Let's be honest tonight. I believe it was Vance Habner who said we all got a birthday present from the devil. And self is awful enamored with self. There's something about man that says, you know, the center of the universe is me. That's the nature of man. But the Christian is to be an others oriented individual Uh my last smartwatch blew up here about a couple of weeks ago and I had to get another one. And I was setting the j the GPS thing on it. I like to use that if I'm walking or something, hiking, whatever. And so it said Orient, the GPS. Okay? And it had this pattern on it. So I I look rather unintelligent, Brother Brad, out there walking in figure eights trying to orient this GPS. I held it up in the air. It didn't work the first time. So if you saw me at the campground with my hand in the air, walking in figure eights, I wasn't having a seizure or something. I was trying to set this crazy watch But you had to orient it to your position. In other words, you had to get it lined up with where you are on the planet. I gotta get lined up, church, with what God says, not what the world's doing. I've got to get oriented with the truth. And you know what the truth is? I'm to consider others. Do we not have a loving Savior? Who considered us before himself, who looked at my sin and your sin and paid that penalty in full who did not consider his own grief, who did not consider his own suffering, but I'll tell you what he did. He saw you and I and our need, and he died in our place and shed his blood so that I could be saved. Hallelujah, what a Savior. I'm glad He considered others. But if I'm going to if I'm going to live peaceably I've got to consider others. I've got to enter their sorrows. I've got to enter their joy. I've got to be on the same page via the same mind. What mind? The Bible says, Lit let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. all trying to get on is not the the the page of this person or the page of that person. We're trying to all get on the same page as the Lord Jesus Christ and get his mind in our mind. So we're to consider others. I'm talking about living peaceably. Number three, I want you to notice what the Bible says next. In verse 16, in the middle part here, it says, Mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits. If you're making notes, I would just simply say the third thing that'll help us live peaceably is to be humble. Be humble. Uh y you ever hear that um statement, get off your high horse? I wonder if it's got roots in that. I there there are a lot of old common sayings that come right out of the Bible, or there's some sort of variation that comes right out of the Bible, and he says, mind not high things but condescend the men of low estate. Get humble. Swallow your pride. Know that only the Lord, this is why he says not to be not wise in your own conceits. You don't know it all. That may be an earth-shattering revelation to somebody here tonight But you don't know it all. I don't know it all. Some listen, some as you live, have you noticed that the older you get, the more you realize that you're not even sure about the questions, let alone the answers anymore. I told somebody recently, I wish the 52-year-old pastor had as much intelligence as he thought he had as a 20-year-old pastor. Not near as sure. Oh, I'm sure about the Lord and I'm sure about his word. But I'm just saying that we we we mind not we we're not to uh mind not our be not wise in our own conceits. The reason that we often can't, in fact I think it's the root cause of not being able to live peaceably is pride. The Bible says in Proverbs 13, 10 that only by pride cometh contention. You say whose pride? Your pride and their pride? Both of them. That Vance Habner, that's what he said. He said that pride was a birthday gift from the devil. And we all have it He says you can, and I can still hear him saying this, he could he could he would say you could be as poor as Job's turkey and still be proud. I don't know where that comes from. I don't know if Job ever had a turkey. And I don't know how in the world they know he was a poor turkey. He might have been a big old fat turkey as far as we know. But have you ever heard that statement, poor as Job's turkey? Maybe it's a Carolina thing. I don't know. You're looking at me weird. But it is a statement I've heard my whole life. And listen, we can be proud over things that we had no hand in. The truth of the matter is, the Bible says, everything we have we've received from the Lord. Everything we have has come from His good hand. Every good gift and perfect gift comes from above Comes down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variableness nor shadow eternity. I don't have anything to boast about but the good God of heaven who is so kind and gracious to me Oh, beloved, listen, there's an awful scourge of pride. We cannot live peaceably until we're willing to be humble. In fact, when we think about this matter, the Lord Jesus demonstrated a humility that was undescribable and unbelievable to his disciples. When he heard them arguing in the background, who's going to be the greatest? Who's going to be the best? Who's going to get the right hand and left hand? You know what was going on? An awful power struggle. Let me say to you, precious people, if there is a craving for power in your life There is a misery that resides in your heart. It was Vance Abner who I heard say one time, if you want to lead, you are not fit to lead. Pride does some awful things to us. Those men said, Can you imagine arguing in the presence of Jesus? Had they not gotten it that he could he knew their faults afar off? They knew Psalm 139, surely to goodness somebody would connect the dots and know that he knows what we're thinking. He knows what we think before we think it. And here they are, who's the greatest, who's the greatest? He doesn't say a word. He gets up, takes a towel and a basin of water, and he begins to make his way around the room, and he washes everybody's feet And then he tells them, You want to be the greatest? Be a servant. You want to be the greatest? Get your towel out and your basin of water and go wash feet. You want to be the greatest? Then go serve in some capacity where no one else wants to serve. But that takes humility. Be humble. Number four, we ought to give better than we receive. Look in verse 17. The Bible says, recompense to no man evil for evil. We ought to be better than that. Not better than that in sense of who we are, but better in sense of what we do. We don't give evil for evil. One of the tragedies of the hour we're living in is that people want to give just what they get. If they get an attitude, they give an attitude. If they get violence, they give violence. If they get some sort of reaction, they got to give some sort of reaction. One of the most beautiful demonstrations of this recompense to no man, evil for evil, was demonstrated by my friend Jack, who got saved by the grace of God. And he was a very violent man, and when God saved him, I mean, listen, he was such a changed person. It was almost like God had made uh such a new person that he didn't even look like the old person I mean he still had the same color, hair, and eyes, but he was so new in his heart. He was a bad he was bad to fight. He loved to fight. He was a troublemaker. That's all he lived for, it seemed, to cause trouble. And when he got converted, those men in that mine ragged him and rode him and harassed him. And one of them young fellas got real smart one day and went up and popped him right in the mouth. Just hit him as hard as he could. And Brother Jack stood there, and everybody was waiting for him to do what he had done a thousand times before. But this time he did not respond with evil to evil. That old man started to cry a little bit. He said, Son, you know six weeks ago if you'd hit me like that, I'd have cleaned the floor with you. But he said, I've gotten saved. And he said, I can't do that sort of thing anymore. He said, My heart won't let me. He said, I'm just I I just don't have it in me. He said, Are you saved? And he began to preach the gospel to that young man. Recompense. You say, preacher, that makes a good story. Oh, but it makes a whole lot better demonstration of the reality of Jesus Christ. By the way, that young man that did that had a grandfather who was an invalid who had been born again He's way up in another end of the province, and you know what he was doing? Praying for them grandkids to get saved. Praying for them to meet some Christians that were real. Praying that they would meet some people who were genuine and who lived their Christianity. And lo and behold, he put him right head on with Jack. And I'm telling you the God of heaven made an impact on that boy he never got over. Why? Because here's a man who who refused to give what he got. He gave better. You know it's never right to do wrong, even if you've been wrong Yeah, but you don't know what they said. Don't matter what they said. Recompense to no man evil for evil. Preacher, you don't know what they did. No, I don't have to know what they did. Here's what I know the Bible says to recompense no man evil for evil. Number five, quickly, if you'll notice this in verse 17, provide things honest in the sight of all men. And number five would just simply be this, be honest. If you want to live peaceably, be honest. Refuse to live in the shadows of half truths and innuendos You and I both know you can say things that are true, but say them in such a way that they cast a shadow of doubt. Who did that? First, the devil. Yea, hath God said? All he did was put a question mark where God put a period He didn't tell a lie in a sense of telling a lie. He just simply insinuated that what God said was not really true. And if we're going to live peaceably, we've got to just simply be honest one with another. Provide things honest. In the sight of all men. The reality is that often our failure to live peaceably comes because of our dishonesty. Whether it's in our conversations or dealings one with another, And then people will say, well I I just tell it like it is. No, sometimes how many of you know you can speak the truth in one way, you can also speak the truth in love. And still still see old Bill Day give the illustration of feeding chickens. He was talking to us preacher boys, and he said, Boys, you're going to one day get up and preach the Bible. And he says you can take the word of God and you can just lay it gently out before the people and let them come and take and and God do a work in their life. Or he said you can take a handful of that truth and you can throw it like a handful of rocks and sting everybody's hide and hurt people and damage people, and he said you can preach the same message But you preach it with a different spirit and it will do damage. If you preach it in love, it can do it can do a service. It can be a help. But we've got to be honest. If you're going to speak the truth, the Bible says couch it in love. Speak the truth in love. We're talking about living peaceably. Living peaceably. I might as well go ahead and say it if we're going to live peaceably, we can't have whispering conversations, backroom chatter. I was preaching recently up north, and a dear old brother that I saw get saved. Come very joyfully and said, you know, preacher, I I had to do something the other day I didn't want to do He said, Does a fella come in here and he's over there whispering here and whispering there? Now this old boy's a big old man. He's he's a giant of a fella. Bob said, I went over there and said, sir, we don't whisper in our church. He said, What are you talking about? He said, Well, you know, and he was what he was whispering about the pastor. And when when Brother Bob heard that, he said, I got him by the shirt. He said, Now Lord forgive me because it wasn't real nice. And he said, I took him out on the front porch and I set him down. He said I set him down and I said, we don't talk about our preacher around here. We love him. If you want to talk about him, you go somewhere else, but don't do it here. I ain't saying that 'cause I'm the preacher. I'm just saying that 'cause that's the way we ought to deal with each other. We ought to be honest. And we ought to be honest in a loving fashion. We ought to be able to say, hey, uh uh brother or sister, let me speak to you. Let's talk. Listen, this thing of hiding and cow if you've got a coward in the corner to say something, you probably ought not to be saying it. I'm talking about living peaceably. Number six, I want you to notice what the Bible says in verse 19, Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath, for it's written, Vengeance is mine. I will repay, saith the Lord. Stop keeping score. Let God do that So much of the time we're trying to keep the record. You know, as a young preacher, I about wore myself out trying to put every fire out I was aware was burning. Running here, fixing that, addressing that. And I learned you can't live like that And sometimes, you know, you talk to some people and you listen long enough and they'll tell you every hurt that's come their way since they got born again. They'll tell you all of it. They can tell you the date, the time, the place, the person, the problem, the pain, and they can tell you, you know what happens? They're keeping score. They've got their little record book and they're marking it down. August uh not August. What did I say August for? It's October. Well, Tim was off a day. I'm off for several months. Lord help me. October the fifth , Sunday, October the 5th at 6. 54 p. m. Charlie could more look at me funny and hurt my feelings. Putting her down. Charlie Charlie I didn't think he was gonna be that mean to you, Charlie. I'm sorry. He wasn't. He's he's reading his Bible. He ain't paying attention to me. Listen. You keep score like that, you'll be a miserable person. I'm gonna tell you, there's people who hurt you don't even know they did it. Do you realize that? They didn't do it on purpose They didn't do it on purpose. They didn't have ill intent. There there was there was nothing in their heart or nothing in their life that would would would would even factor that in, but how many of you know that just living sometimes things happen, things are said. Perhaps people uh decipher something or they perceive something and they take it wrong and people get hurt Don't keep score. Don't mark it down. There's a God in heaven who sees all, knows all, and he'll handle all. There's going to come a day he'll make every wrong right. I love something Dr. Hitchens brought out in the Bible geography class about David. David had an opportunity to make himself king on at least three occasions. He had opportunity to take matters in his own hands and annihilate King Saul. He had the opportunity to promote himself and push himself ahead and say, be away with that wicked man Saul. But he never did it. And when King Saul died, David lamented like a great godly man had been laid in the grave. He wept and talked about the greatness of Saul and the greatness of his son. You know what he was doing? God, you keep the record books. I'm just going to treat him right. I'm going to do right. I don't care what he does to me. I'm going to honor and exalt the Lord Jesus by honoring this man. And I'll tell you what, when you live like that, there's a whole lot of freedom. When you let God keep the score. It's a whole lot lighter. You don't carry all that mess around when you're letting God keep the record. Stop keeping score. Number 7, verse 20 says, Therefore, if thine enemy hunger, feed him. If he thirst, give him drink. For in so doing thou shalt heat coals of fire on his head. Number seven is simply this be a servant. Be a servant. Start with your enemy. You know what that feeding and and you know taking what 's just doing what a servant does. Just serve. Someone said it's hard to inflict wounds when you're busy washing feet. You know those disciples, I've already mentioned this, but those disciples learn that when you're washing feet, you you you better pay attention. You you you're doing something that that'll keep you humble. You're doing something that will be helpful. And so we need to be a servant. Church, if you're having problems living peaceably, you're likely not serving like you should or could. If you find yourself at odds continually, someone said, if you're always getting in trouble somewhere with somebody, it's not others who are the problem. Be a servant. Our Lord served. You know what amazes me? He knew Judas would betray him But he washed his feet anyhow. That 's my Lord. He knew he'd do him wrong. He went ahead and washed his feet. What a savior. What a Savior. Be a servant. Let me give you one more and I'm through. Verse 21 says, Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good. John Wesley said, do all the good you can to as many people as you can for as long as you can. Just do good. Hey, just because evil's all around don't mean we have to take part in it. When I first started driving, I had some trouble with my car, and my dad let me drive his old Jeep. It was a 58 Willis. And I he'd inspect that thing every time I come home. He'd walk around it, look at the tires , check the oil, he'd look it over. And I seem to always come home with a little mud on it. Sometimes a lot of mud. And I'll never forget him saying, son, just because there's a mud hole don't mean you have to go through it. You know. He said, I know it's four wheel drive and I know it's a jeep and I know it'll do it. He said, That don't mean you have to. It was tempting, I'll be honest. But just because there's mud, you don't have to get in it. Church, just because there's evil, we don't have to participate. Just because the world is gonna ride doesn't mean we've got to walk in step Do good. Go in the face of culture and do good. Go in the opposite direction of the majority of Christianity and do good. Go against the grain and do good. Just do what the Bible says. Don't let the evil overcome, but overcome evil with evil Good. And beloved, listen, if you want to live peaceably with all men, if you'll take these eight things and put them in your heart, God will help us to live different, and we will be living peaceably. In the house of God. And by the way, the last thing I want to say about this is it takes effort It don't magically happen. You're not going to just wake up one morning and say, Oh, I just feel like living peaceably with everybody. Sometimes you wake up and you want to wring everybody's neck, you see Maybe that's a testimony, Andy. I don't know. But you gotta say, hey, I'm his There's something bigger going on than me. This thing's beyond me. I belong to the King. I gotta represent him as I walk through this old w earth. Right. And so I'm going to live peaceably. As much as life in you, let's put a little bit more in there. So we can live peaceably with all men. Father, please help us tonight to take your word.