Bring the message this morning, so you pray for him if you would please. And let's ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. I'm thankful for God's word this morning, aren't you? I'm grateful we have a place where we can come open our Bibles and hear the Lord speak to us from heaven. And that's what we're praying for this morning. So you pray for Joe and hear him gladly. Amen. Jumping your Bible to 2 Corinthians chapter number 2. 2 Corinthians chapter number 2. And uh Try not to break anything here. I thank the preacher for giving me an opportunity to preach here. I don't ever take it lightly to stand up and preach the word of God. It's a Uh powerful thing. Mr. Evans uh was talking to me earlier over somewhere, I don't even know where he's at right now, but uh he called me out. He says, You look nervous. I said, I'm always nervous when I'm about to preach just because I know the severity of this matter. It's a serious thing when it comes to preaching time, and I don't ever want to drop the ball, so to speak. I want the Lord to work for th through us And I I pray that uh we'll get a blessing today. Uh my title of today's message is Living on the Hallelujah side. And I kind of took it from that song. And as I was reading this passage I was studying it and I almost preached it last Sunday at our church and um I I the Lord led me otherwise for that service, but this has been heavy on my heart and as I studied it the more I prayed about it. The Lord said this was what we wanted for this morning. And uh, you know, I'm thankful and grateful for the fact that we can be saved and know it Uh there 's a lot of people out there in the world today that I think um are living under a severe disadvantage that religion has blinded them And they they have this this religious fog over their mind where they think that they might be going to heaven when they die and they think they have eternal life, but they don't really know And I'm glad that we have a Bible and we have a salvation that we can know and we have eternal life. I'm so glad of that I'm so glad we don't have to lay uh on our deathbed someday guessing and thinking about it. We can know for sure, and you can know for sure today That you have eternal life. And I encourage you, if you're here today and you're a visitor, or you're a lost person, if you're a visitor, first of all, come back again and hear the pastor actually preach. You'll be blessed by that. But if you're a lost person here today, you're amongst friends. And we want you to know that Jesus will save your soul. And we don't want you to leave lost today. And that's not really the main message of this m this morning, but the Lord laid down my heart to get that out of the way. I'm glad to be saved. Amen. But uh second Corinthians chapter number two and uh verse fourteen says, Now thanks be unto God, which always causes us to triumph in Christ. Amen. And maketh manifest the savour of his knowledge by us in every place. For we are unto God a sweet savour of Christ, in them that are saved, and in them that perish. To the one we are a saver the saver of death unto death, and the other the saver of life unto life. And who is sufficient for these things? Verse 17 For we are not as many which corrupt the word of God, but as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God, speak we in Christ. And I want to draw our attention to the verse fourteen, which is my main verse for this. We'll preach out of this whole text, but that thanks be unto God, which always causes us to triumph in Christ. Amen. And like I started off saying, if you know for sure you're saved, you've got a lot to triumph about today. And as we just came through Thanksgiving, we've got a lot to thank God for. But if you're saved, thank him most of all for salvation. Amen. And I think if you're lost and you're here today or listen in by means of radio or some other means, Thank God that salvation is still available to you today. Amen. And I pray that the Lord will speak to you today. Let's go ahead and ask the Lord to help us this morning. Our Heavenly Father. Lord, we thank you for this time and this privilege and opportunity we've had to meet in your house. And God, I pray that you'll help me as we've been blessed by song today and the message in Sunday school. It's been a blessing. God, I pray now that you'll help us Lord, speak through me. Empty me and myself. Fill me with the Spirit. I need your touch and your help. I can't do anything on my own. And God, none of these people came here to hear from me. We came to hear from you. So Lord, I pray that you speak to us. And Lord, I pray most importantly, if there is a lost person here or listening in, I pray, Lord, today they fall from sin, realize they need to be saved, and trust you forever before it's too late. God, I pray that you have your will and your way in this service. Mend the broken hearts and do that which only you can do, and we'll trust you for it. We'll praise you for all that you have done and will do and are currently doing. Lord, we'll thank you and praise you. In Jesus' strong name we pray. Amen. As I thought about this uh message and I've looked at that, thanks be unto God, which always causes us to triumph. in Christ. And as I said, the title is Living on the Hallelujah side. We have a a life as a Christian that we should always be living uh in a triumphant state because we're triumphing in Christ. And as I read this text and I thought about it, uh if you're familiar with your Bible, the Apostle Paul is the penman here in Second Corinthians, and if you're familiar with his life at all He had a lot of trouble and a lot of uh hardships and things in his life, a lot of persecutions, and you'd think if anybody had an opportunity to throw a pity party, it probably would have been the Apostle Paul at times, you know. But I think about him here he says, uh we thank God because he always caused us to triumph in Christ. And when I thought about this title, I had been studying the Psalms, and Hallelujah is The Hebrew for praise the Lord or praise God, praise Jehovah. And I think about how we as Christians living on the triumphant side in Christ being triumphant, we have a lot to praise God for And we should live on that continual praising the Lord. And I think about how sometimes in life and the struggles of life and the things that we go through, sometimes it's not always easy. to live on the hallelujah side, right? There's uh we've talked about it this morning in Sunday school hour lifting up all the different ones that are in uh bad health conditions and different situations that way. There's family matters that burden us down. Uh there's all these things that happen in us to our lives because of sin and the w the things of the world and the nature of being a a a uh uh just a human being in a sin-cursed body in a sin-cursed world Sometimes it's not always that easy to say I'm living on the hallelujah side. And it's not always easy to say I'm triumphing always in Christ. But we ought to as Christians. As born-again believers, we ought to be able to say, I'm living on the hallelujah side. And you say, so what is the hallelujah side? It's just living a life that's continually praising God for what He's done for us and what He is doing and will continue to do. I think about that we were talking in Sunday school and uh I love uh br doc listening to Dr. Hitchens uh speak I thought about this when I was sitting there. I thought he he I love how he breaks the bread of life and he also bakes a really good bread in this life. If you ever had his bread, it's something out of this world. But uh I was sitting there thinking about that. My mind works weird. But uh I I love it, I love, we were talking, he's reading there out of John this morning. I just think about that. What a beautiful uh every verse, every chapter in this Bible is beautiful. But especially when we get looking at all those ones that just single in on our blessed Savior, amen. And as we were talking about this morning, his love for us. And we talk about Peter there and different things and how Peter fell all over time and time again. It seemed like his foot was in his mouth more than it wasn't. And that's us, right? Seems like pretty much any time I open my mouth is just open mouth insert foot because I'm gonna probably do something I shouldn't do. And I pray that we don't do that today, but Well we we do that all the time, right? And I think about that, although all of our failures, we can r rest assured on the fact that God still loves us. Amen. I think about one of my favorite verses, Romans 5. 8, but God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. He didn't wait for us to get cleaned up. He said, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And what a blessing that is. I'm so grateful for the love of God. Uh I think about the fact that we wouldn't be here today. None of us would have this King James Bible in our lap had it not been for the love of God. Amen. I think about how good God is to us, and it's just we could just go around the room or we ought to sometimes go around the room and just say God is good, Amen. And I'm thankful for that. But we say, thanks be unto God, which always causes us to triumph in Christ. I say the secrets to living on the hallelujah side, they're not going to be secrets anymore because I'm going to let them out of the bag today. We had Thanksgiving there at the house and I I told Emily and Josiah a secret recipe for the best mashed potatoes in the world. And then he went around and told everybody the secret recipe. I said, listen, that's a secret recipe. Don't be telling everybody my secret recipe. It's not really that secret, but y anyway It was this isn't a secret today. I'm going to share some things to you that would be uh we would say maybe the secret to living on the hallelujah side, but what I feel is just the key, how do we live on the hallelujah side? And here in this text I see it first of all, there in verse 14, the words in Christ. In Christ. Listen, you will never live on the hallelujah side apart from Christ. Outside of the Lord Jesus Christ, you cannot live on the hallelujah side. There's a lot of people in the world today, a lot of religions, a lot of things that are trying to do it their way, and they don't have any peace. That people are searching for peace in drugs and alcohol and all the other sins of the world, and they have no peace. But peace and happiness and that triumph comes in Christ. What a blessing that is. I think about how the Lord Jesus Christ told us there in John chapter 3, he told Nicodemus, you must be born again. That word must is powerful. It means there's no other option. Amen? There's no other option. He didn't tell Nicodemus, if you would like to be born again, it's probably a good thing to do. No, he said, you must be born again. And listen, friend, the command still goes out, you must be born again. The Bible still says in Acts chapter number four and verse 12, neither is there salvation in any other. For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Amen. Must. You must be saved. You must be in Christ. And as I was thinking about this and looking at this text, being in Christ, what a blessing it is. Romans 3. 24 says, being justified freely. by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Amen. Being in Christ Jesus. Romans 5. 8, there is therefore now No condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. You've got to be in Jesus Christ. Amen. As I looked up that word in Uh I don't know if anybody else has ever looked up in the dictionary what the word in means. We all think that's a simple word, right? I I I love looking up words that we think we all we know what they mean, but And it in his simple word, it is a simple word, but it has a lot of different uses. And as I was looking up and reading it, the word in is a primary preposition. Now I I barely made it through English, so I don't really know what all that means, but it says it's a primary preposition, and it can mean fixed position in a place, state, or time. When something is in something. It's a fixed position. It also speaks of being enclosed or surrounded by the limits of something. For example, we are in this building. We're all sitting inside this building right now. That's where that word in would be used. It also speaks of when you pray or dedicate something in someone's name, it means it's in the virtue of or in the sake of something. It can also mean by or through. And that's where we see in Christ. It's by Christ, in Christ, through Christ. They all are interchangeable there. What a blessing. And then it also can mean to keep with. Or to be close or near. For example, the example out of the Webster's eighteen twenty eight for that was it says, keep the ship in with the land, meaning get it close to the land. I think about uh I live up in northeast Ohio and I don't know why because Lake Erie and stuff up there People always around are talking about the Edmund Fitzgerald, especially here recently. It was just the anniversary of their sink in here in November. Uh I think it's the tenth actually And maybe I may might be wrong on that. Don't quote me on that, but look it up. But the Edmund Fitzgerald went down in Superior. And think about this. They don't seem like they're that big of a deal, but they are And had that ship been closer to land, maybe it wouldn't have sunk. But it was out in the middle of that. And I think about this, we think about being in close to something, as that word in means. And here we put it in the context of the Scripture being in Christ. All of those definitions work for that Amen. You should be surrounded by or enclosed by Christ. Amen. You're not going to get to heaven unless you go through Christ. Amen. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh on the Father. but by me. Amen. I'm so grateful for the fact that we can be in Christ. I as I I thought about those definitions, it's so so so good to me. I I don't know about anybody else, but I would like to stay close to Christ. Amen. And I notice the times when I'm struggling the worst in my life is when I'm not as close to him as I ought to be. Amen. If you're having any issues in your life today, there's a song, I'll Drop My Anchor. The Lindsay brothers used to sing it. I'll drop my anchor. Meaning, hey, I'm going to stay right here. Amen. I'm going to hang on to this And I think about our anchor is the Lord Jesus Christ. That song, My Anchor Holds. Amen. What a blessing it is to be in Christ. If you're saved today, we have a lot to be thankful for and triumph in. And we can live on the hallelujah side. in Christ. Amen. You won't live on the Hallelujah side outside of the Lord Jesus Christ. First of all, you must be in Christ. Secondly, we see how to live on the hallelujah side. You live a life That reveals the wisdom of God. And here in verse 14 it says, Maketh manifest the savor of his knowledge by us in every place. That word savor means a fragrance or a smell, an odor. I think about how, we'll speak about it a little bit in verse 15. It says a sweet savor Of Christ. In the Old Testament, it had the incense that went up to be a sweet savor unto the Lord, right? And I don't know about anybody else, but we think about just Thanksgiving. Smells travel, right? You can smell something cooking. Boy, it travels through the house and through, maybe down the street even you can smell it's like, hmm, oh Dr. Hitchens must be baking bread down there. I can smell it, amen And I can smell that. You can smell aromas. Sometimes you smell aromas that you don't particularly like. Amen. I won't go any further on that. Use your imagination. But think about that. Hey, you can smell things. Smells travel It's hard to contain them. Amen. And as here we see this in this verse, in verse 14, it says we thank God always causing us to triumph in Christ. And he maketh manifest the savor of his knowledge by us in every place. Hey, that aroma, that odor of his knowledge, is supposed to be spread through us in every place. And as I looked at this, I thought about how back in there in 1 Corinthians, if you want to flip back there and look at it, you can. 1 Corinthians chapter number 1. 1 Corinthians chapter number 1, what is the knowledge of God? The world is confused on what is the knowledge of God. Amen. First Corinthians chapter number 1 breaks this down. It says that You can go through the whole chapter. We don't have time to read it, obviously, for time's sake. Well we'll start in verse 17. It says, For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. Amen. Amen. Amen. I think about this. You can keep on reading how it says that the wisdom of God is foolishness with the world And what the world considers wisdom is foolish to God. That's what this text ends up going on and saying. And as we think about that with the context of where we are in 2 Corinthians chapter 2. We're to put up a savor of the knowledge of God. What is the knowledge of God? What is the wisdom and knowledge of God? It's the gospel. Amen. That ought to be coming out of us in every place, the gospel. I think about how many times we drop the ball on spreading the gospel. Um Dr. Hitchens must have been reading my notes this morning because he was talking about when you hear something good, you want to spread it, right? And we we we we we hear about a sale down here at Whatever the store is that you got to shop at. Hey, they're having uh 10% off on this or that, or Black Friday was just the other day, and people are all up in arms about sales, right? And then go tell everybody about it. Listen, I've got the greatest bargain there is around. I've got the greatest blessing, the greatest gift, and it won't cost you a dime. Amen. Who loves free? I'm I'm the only one that loves free. Hey, I I love free things, alright? Hey, if someone wants to they start showing me something really nice, if I go over to Brother John Wikers and he brings out this this nice thirty aught six rifle and he starts showing it to me And he starts telling me all about this rifle and and he's telling me all about it and I said, Boy, that's a beautiful rifle. That must cost a lot. He said, Well yeah, when I bought it it was such and such amount of money, it's a beautiful rifle. And he says, But you know, I I think I'd like to give this rifle to you Boy, I'd say, well, you know, I could never pay to a f to pay you for that rifle. He says, well no, you don't have to pay me for it. I'm going to give you this rifle. Well that that's awesome. And I'd be a little sheepish to take it, but I would take it. Amen. Because I like rifles. But I would say, boy, brother, you don't have to do that, but hey, thank you. And I'm going to leave before you change your mind. Amen. But hey, listen. There's a gift. There's a free gift. All you've got to do is accept it. People out there are trying to work for it. They're trying to earn it. They're trying to do whatever they can. They're trying to pay penance and do all these different things. And they will never get it because it's a gift. Amen. It's a gift. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8 and 9 tells us, for by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. You know, the Apostle Paul said, In me that is in my flesh dwelleth no good thing. And if we would be honest here this morning, we would all say, In me that is in my flesh dwelleth no good thing. But in Jesus Christ there's something, amen. That's why Ephesians 2 89 says, For by grace are you saved, and not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. Not of works, lest any man should boast. Why? Because if you could earn salvation, everybody in town would know about it. Right? If you were able to earn salvation, everybody would know, and they would hate you for it. But that pray praise God, it's in the gift of Jesus Christ. What a blessing that is. The wisdom of God that's supposed to be revealed through us is the gospel. Amen. And as we continue there in the text in 2 Corinthians. We see not only how to have a live on the hallelujah side, you must be in Christ. We also should put off his knowledge. It should be revealed in us. But then also our life should have a sweet savor to God there in verse 15. It says, For we are unto God, a sweet savor of Christ. You think about that. You think about that. I know that the Lord, when he was baptized, the Spirit descended and the heavens opened up. A voice came down and said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I'm well pleased. Amen. The Bible makes it clear that Jesus Christ, he's a sweet savor to God. Amen? We know that. None of us would argue that that Jesus Christ is a sweet savor unto God. But this verse is telling us that we are to be unto God, a sweet saver of Christ. Amen. The only way you're going to smell good to God is through the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. If you're putting off the same aroma that He was putting off Amen. Now think about this. This is challenging to us because I we I would love to say that. I will I want I want to hear the Lord say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Amen. I would like for him to look down at any given point in time and say, This is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased. Unfortunately, I know that he can't say that at all times. But because of the blood on me, the blood of Jesus Christ, I am justified in his sight. And that old song, I love it, when he sees me, he sees the blood. He views me as worthy and not as I am. Praise God for that. Amen. I'm glad that through Jesus Christ we can be a sweet savor unto God. Amen. Our actions and our things in our life, it ought to be a sweet savor unto God. We ought to live a life that is a sweet savor to God. But also we ought to live a life that affects both the saved and the lost You see there in verse 15 and in verse 16 it says, We're a sweet savor unto God, but it also said there in them that are saved, and in them that perish, To the one we are a saver of death unto death, and to the other a savor of life unto life, and who is sufficient for these things? Hey, we're looking at this text that says that hey, when you're putting off the aroma of God The saved people are going to recognize that. Amen? And the ones that are in Christ, it's going to be a sweet savor to them as well. It's not such a sweet savor to them that are lost. Amen. We know that. We can see that in our world today, man. You go out anywhere in public and you start trying to talk about the Lord to people, if they're lost, you know it immediately. by their reaction. Amen. Some of them are hateful and some of them are ugly. Some of them not so much, but you can still tell that they're not right with God or they're not saved. Why? Because of their reaction. You try to give someone a gospel track, or you try to tell them about the Lord, or you just say God is good, and you watch them just start looking for something to crawl under. Amen. Think about how your life, it ought to affect people out in the world. That sweet savor of the Lord coming off of it off of us, it ought to be recognizable to the saved, but it ought to be recognizable unto the lost as well They all say, I don't know what it is about that guy, but I just don't like him. Why? Because he's in Christ, Amen. The that's a lost world. They're gonna look at you that way Amen. The Bible tells us Jesus said, Hey, they hated me. Listen, they crucified the King of kings and Lord of Lords. The best man that ever lived because he was God, they crucified him. Pilate says, I find no fault in him. And listen, no one else could ever find any fault in him. The only way they found any reason to crucify him was because they had some false witnesses come up and lie and say things, and he was like a sheep. Dumb before his shears he openeth not his mouth. Amen. Because it was his father's will. Amen. The perfect Son of God was killed by the religious people of this world. Remember that. The religious people were the ones that killed our Lord. They were the ones that said, Crucify him. Amen. We have no king but Caesar. They said, Crucify him. Listen, that's the religion. That's what religion will do for you. Amen. Religion will blind you to the truth. If you're sitting here today and you say, well, I'm religious, throw that away upon an altar today and get a relationship with Christ. Because religion has sent more people to hell than Muslim or any other thing that there is. Hey, listen, religion will send you to hell quicker than anything else. You need to realize that there is salvation in none other but Jesus Christ. The church, you ought to be in church if you're saved, but it don't get you to heaven. If you're a Christian, t you ought to pay tithes, but that won't get you to heaven. Amen. The list goes on. It's only in Jesus Christ. But listen, that ought to affect people. Wherever you go, they ought to people that are saved ought to know that. Amen. If you're working with other Christian believers, boy, you ought to have a sweet fellowship amongst each other. And as Christians, we ought to be able to fellowship one with another. Why? Because we should all be putting off that same aroma of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm sure a lot of you people have been in different churches where this side of the church don't speak to this side of the church because of this person and this person and so-and-so did this and so-and-so did this. And listen, that is not right. Listen, I don't know anybody here around here that I don't know. I hope that's not going on here, but if it is today, get it right. God cannot and God will not work in a church that is divided like that. Amen? Well, we need to put ourselves, humble ourselves in the fear of God and get things right, amen, with our believers. Why? Because it's a sweet savor unto those that are saved. We have something in common, amen. We're going to heaven. Listen, if you hate somebody here today, you're going to have a hard time with eternity. Right? Because you're going to spend if you're saved, you're spending eternity with them. My wife, she she's she's doomed. Amen? She said I do, which meant she's mine until we're both dead or she kills me. But anyway, hey She's my wife. She's not getting rid of me. But the problem is for her, we're both saved. So she's still stuck with me beyond the grave. I'm never going anywhere. Amen. I'm always gonna be there to cause her problems. But think about this. Hey We ought to have a sweet savor amongst the Christians. Amen. You ought to put off a sweet savor amongst your brethren and your sisters in Christ. And if that isn't so, you need to get that taken care of. Amen. We're going to look here. How do you live on the hallelujah side? Well, fifthly, living a life that is true to the Word of God. In verse 17 he says, For we are not as many which corrupt the word of God, but as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God, speak we in Christ. Amen. Hey, there's a lot of people out there in the world today, a lot of so-called Christians that are corrupting the Word of God A lot of churches and religions that corrupt the Word of God. A lot of people, they just try to corrupt the Word of God because, well, I don't really like that. Or I'm a I think it should say this, right? The Bible says it's not for private interpretation, so No, I've read this book several times. Mr. C, you've wrote a lot of scripture and printed it a lot. Have you ever found in here where God ever asked what you thought about it? It ain't in there. I never found a place where God asked any of the prophets, What do you think about this? He just says, Thus saith the Lord. Amen? Hey, listen, it don't matter what you think about it. We need to conform, submit, and commit to what God said. Amen. Say, listen, I need to let this change me. I'm not changing it. Let it change you. I love that song, this blessed old book that I hold in my hand. It's true from beginning to end. But there's a part in that verse, that song that says, If I find when I read it that there's something wrong, then there's something wrong with you. Amen. If you find it when you're reading the Word of God that there's something wrong, problem 's with you. Problem's not in this book. It's God's perfect, inerrant word. Amen. And if you're holding the King James Bible, you need nothing else. Amen. You've got God's word right there Amen. But the world out there, people out there, Christians, and everybody else are trying to corrupt the Word of God. But if you live on the hallelujah side, you won't want to corrupt the Word of God. Because as the Bible says, thy words are very pure. And thy servant loveth it. Amen. A true-born-again Christian will have a heart for the Word of God. And you know, a heart that's not true to God, it's not going to be true to his word either. How many times have you run across Christians? And I throw air quotes around that because they're certainly not Christ-like. That's what the word Christian is supposed to mean. You run into people that call themselves Christians, but they totally disregard all of the Word of God. They say they're Christians, but they have a total disregard for his word. And they say, well, I'm a Christian, but you know, God never convicted me of that. God never really convicted me of that. Have you ever read the Bible? I mean it's there in black and white, plain as plain as day. But oh he's never convicted me of that. But think about this. Hey, they don't have a true heart for God. Because a true heart for God will have a heart for his word. I think about you you put this in a relationship perspective. God compared the Christian life to s to a a marriage, right? Ephesians chapter five, it it spells it out there, right? Husbands love your wife even as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. But we see that It's a marriage relationship, is what God compares it to. If your spouse writes you a letter, wouldn't that be dear to you? Amen. Maybe not. I don't know. I there's a lady that she's gone on to be with the Lord now, her and her husband both, but uh they used to go to our old church and he was a World War II veteran. And she, after he passed away, she had all of the letters that he wrote her while he was overseas. She had them in a box. And she said she took them out and read them every day after he passed away. Now them letters had been old. They had been married for all them years. He passed away and was gone on to be with the Lord. But she took out them letters and she read them. And she'd cry over them letters because why? They were dear to her because she loved the person who wrote them. Amen. Same ought to be true for this. If you love God, if you're in Christ, this ought to be dear to you. This ought to be near and dear to your heart because He wrote this for you. This is God's love letter to us. And the people that throw it on the the tr the hood of their car or the dashboard of their car or it's on a coffee table is a Piece of decoration and they never touch it from Sunday to Sunday. Listen, I don't know about your heart. You should love the Word of God if you're a child of God. Amen. It ought to be dear and near to your heart because it's his word. The one that wrote it is the one that died for your soul. Amen. It was dear to her. How do you live on the hallelujah side? Live a life that is true to the Word of God. There's a quote, I just saw it the other day on my mother-in-law's fridge, that uh It said something about and now I'm going to mess it up. I should have written it down. It says if you can find a person with a Bible that's warned that's fallen apart, their life usually isn't, or something along those lines. Listen, the ones it seems like to me in ministry, I've not been in ministry very long, but my dad's been a pastor for twenty-some years and I I was grew up in that, so I've seen it a lot. But the people that seem to have the most problems in their life Are the people that don't read their Bible, they don't pray, and they don't go to church. They're the ones that have the most problems in their life You can ask your pastor, I'm not making this up. It's true. Anybody that's ever been in the ministry very long or been in church, you know what I'm talking about. Listen, the people that are falling apart at the seams, their Bible's perfect. Pristine. It's never been opened up once Listen, this is God's roadmap. That old song, I'm using my Bible for a roadmap. Hey, it ought to be broken in. You ought to know that thing. And it ought to guide your life. Proverbs 3, 5 and 6 says, lean not on your own understanding. Why? Because our own understanding is going to lead us astray. Well, let the Lord God guide you. Amen. Through His Word. And trust His Word. Listen, have a heart that's true to the Word of God if you want to live on the hallelujah side. You want to struggle and push a chain uphill, go right ahead. But if you want to live a life that's pleasing to God and on the hallelujah side, start by getting in the book. Start by getting in the book. Think about these people that want to come up with these harebrained ideas about scripture and different things. They always want to come up with some sort of weird thing, or oh, this is I heard this on Facebook, real and the other day and what do you think about the this or that or the book of Enoch or this or whatever it is and I say have you read the 66 that are here? They just sit there and look at you. I was reading this book and I was reading the book of this and I was reading the book of this. Start with this one. When you've worn that one out, then maybe venture on. I wouldn't recommend it. But this is all you need. You have all 66 right here. That's what God wants you to have. And if you know this book, you would see that the rest of those don't belong Amen. But these people they want to get hung up on all of a sudden they haven't even read what God's had given us Start with reading what we have here in print before you find other ones. But I think about have a heart that's true to the Word of God. Living on the hallelujah side. First you've got to be in Christ. You must uh you want to live a life that reveals the wisdom of God, live a life that has a sweet savor to God, live a life that has an effect on the saved and the lost, have a life that is true to the word of God, and lastly Live a life in the presence of God. Verse 17, there it says at the end that in the sight of God speak we in Christ. Now, God is omnipresent. God is all knowing. You're never going to do anything that God doesn't know about. But listen, you can be in the presence of God. And and and be also be not in the presence of God. If you read your Bible, you understand that. If that makes sense. I want to make sure we're clear on that. God always knows what's going on. Nothing's happening ever anywhere that He doesn't know about or that He hasn't allowed. Amen. I just was preaching about this the other day at our church. I said, listen, everything going on in the world today happens for God because God has allowed it to. We forget about that sometimes. Everything going on, we think about all the horrible things in the world, I think about that horrible tragedy with them uh National Guard members in DC. God allows that. We may not ever understand why, but he has a reason that he's allowing these things to happen. We were just talking about the other day, me and Josiah were sitting there and we talked about how At the end of the uh millennium, we're listening to a preacher preach about Revelation 20. He said the devil's going to be chained and bound for a thousand years, but then he's going to be loosed again. And someone said, uh, why would the devil loose him after he had him bound for a thousand years? And a preacher said, if you find out why he loosed him in the beginning, then you might have an answer for that one. Why'd he turn him loose in the beginning? He's God, right? Hey, but he wanted he he has a plan. I don't know the answer to it. You don't know the answer to it. Because we're not God. Amen. But we've got to trust God. He is in control. But listen, living a life outside of the presence of God will never be on the hallelujah side. Anytime that anyone in your Bible went outside of the presence of God, bad things happened. A couple of quick examples for you: Adam and Eve. Genesis chapter 3. Genesis chapter 3 and verse 8, they went out from the presence of God and hid themselves when they had sinned. Listen, bad things happen when we get out of the presence of God. Just the next chapter, Cain After he slew his brother Abel, it said that his punishment was too great, and it said that he went out from the presence of God. What a place. You go on a little bit further, you say, well, yeah, they were sinners and wicked people, you know, Adam and Eve, they sinned in the garden and that whatever, and Cain he slew his brother, so obviously they're going to be out of the presence of God. But I fast forward to the prophet Jonah He was called by God to go and preach to Nineveh. He was called by God to go and do what God wanted him to do. But yet he went out from the presence of God. He said, I'm not going to go to Nineveh, and he went to Joffa. Amen. He tried to board that ship, and you know how the story went. He was thrown overboard, swallowed by a fish, because why? He tried to run from the presence of God. Bad things happen out of the presence of God. This verse here in verse 17 says, We're not as many which corrupt the word of God, but as in sincerity as of God in the sight of God, speak we in Christ. Listen Be in the presence of God if you want to live on the hallelujah side. Amen. Keep close to the word of God and the Lord. You don't want to be out of the presence of God. Exodus chapter number thirty-three and verse fourteen says, And he said, My people shall go with thee, and I will give thee rest. Amen. The presence of God gives rest. Amen. Matthew 11, 28 through 30, Jesus said, Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. I was listening to a preacher preach this the other day, and he said about that being an imitation. He said, The imitation is for all. But it narrows it down. He said, Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden. That means you realize your condition. You know why so many people aren't getting saved today? Because they don't think they need a savior. They haven't realized their condition. Listen, you won't be saved until you're under conviction You must be convicted of your sin before you're saved. You can say all the prayers you want to pray. You can go to every church service and revival service, but if you are not under conviction From the Holy Ghost of God, I'm not a Calvinist, nowhere near a Calvinist, but you will not get saved unless you're convicted of sin. You must be convicted of your sin. Hey, the Word of God will prick your heart and convict you of your sin. The Apostle Paul, as he was on the road to Damascus, and he and the light shined down from heaven and God said, It's hard to kick against the prick. I mean in that prodding of your heart, the conviction, as he stood there and saw Stephen being stoned, said the Bible said that they cast their coats at the uh the feet of a young man named Saul, right? And as Stephen was being stoned and he looked up into heaven, you read that account, oh man, how Stephen looked up and he saw the fa they said that his face was like that of an angel, right? And he says, Father, forgive them just like the Lord did. He's forgiven the people that are stoning him as he gives up the ghost. The Apostle Paul stood there and saw that. And if you read your Bible, it affected him. He talks about it many different times that that that that was a big move in his heart, in his life, that started convicting him of his sin I don't know what other things were convicting him at that time, but that was one of them for sure. Listen, you've got to be convicted of your sin. We ought to realize, listen, we have all sinned and come short of the glory of God. There's not a single person in this room, in this world, that has ever done exactly what God wanted them to do except Jesus Christ. That's the only one. Jesus looked at the scribes and Pharisees and he said, unless your righteousness exceed that of these people. He says, You've got to be better than the best people that have ever lived if you want to get to heaven by your own merit. Meaning it ain't gonna happen. Just forget about it. The only way is Jesus Christ. Amen. But we ought to live in the presence of God. You know, the presence of God has peace, it has rest. I love the fact that the presence of God and in Christ, this in Christ, there's victory. You can turn back just a page or two there in 1 Corinthians 15. Verse 57, but thanks be unto God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be a steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Amen. I I think the place to be today is living on the hallelujah side. And this is how you can do it. Listen, if you're not saved here today, you'll never live a life that's going to be praising God and be triumphant. You'll never live on the hallelujah side unless you're saved. You've got to be in Christ. We need to be sharing the gospel to people everywhere we go. It ought to have an effect on them. We ought to be true to the Word of God, and we need to stay in the presence of God. That's how you stay on the hallelujah side. I'm not saying that I have obtained all of this by any means, but I would like to. Amen. I I found the times at this the where where I'm at right there is I've heard preacher Maze Jackson one time say he said I was at the spout where the glory comes out. And if you've ever been there, you don't ever want to leave that place. But so many times in our life, hey, I wish I could say I'm always under that spout where the glory comes out. But I'm not. And if you were to be you'd be honest, you'd say the truth. You're not always under that spout either. But we ought to want to be. Amen? We ought to strive to be And we need to get closer to God. The great promise given to us in James, he says, draw nigh to me, and I will draw nigh unto you. God says, hey, you start coming to me, I'll I'll meet you in the middle. Amen. What a blessing that is. How about you? Do you want to live on the hallelujah side? Just stand your feet and bow your heads in a word of prayer.