Well, the truth is that heaven's going to cure what ails you. Uh aren't you glad there's a a place that awaits us? where no sin and ungodliness or even the devil doesn't enter in. And we anticipate that day and say, even so, come quickly, Lord Jesus. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to 1 Corinthians chapter number 3. And unless my eyes deceive me It's good to have Brother and Sister Lupe with us tonight. Good to see you, dear folks. First Corinthians chapter number three. Let me read several verses in your hearing. I'm going to magnify one verse out of the text But I believe we need to hear many of these verses in relationship to that text. 1 Corinthians chapter 3 And I'm going to invite you to stand with me if you're able, please. And we'll honor the reading of God's Word. Starting in verse number one. 1 Corinthians chapter 3 verse 1. The Bible says, and I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal. even as unto babes in Christ. I have fed you with milk and not with meat, for hitherto ye were not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able. For ye are yet carnal. For whereas there is among you envying and strife and divisions, are ye not carnal and walk as men? For while one saith, I am of Paul, and another, I am of Apollos, are you not carnal? Who then is Paul? And who is Apollos, but ministers by whom you believed, even as the Lord gave to every man? I have planted. Apollos watered. But God gave the increase. So then neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one. And every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor. For we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry, ye are God's building. According to the grace of God which is given unto me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now, if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble , Every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire. And the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved yet so as by fire. I want you to go back to verse number 8 and look at it with me, please. Verse number 8 says, Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one. And every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor. And I want to preach the Lord helping me this evening on this thought, living in light of what's coming. Living in light of what's coming. Let's pray together. Father, again, we bow in your presence, and we're grateful for this privilege to be able to pray. Lord, I thank you that I can come to thee through the Lord Jesus, who loved me and gave himself for me. Thank you for the blood that was shed, the cross that was endured. The tomb that is empty, the devil that was defeated, Lord, thy throne that is occupied. I bless your holy name. I thank you for the Spirit of God who's been given. And Lord, I need thy help. Undertake, Lord, as we preach, meet the need of every heart, and may the Lord Jesus be exalted in this place. And Father, I pray that you'll just work as only you can, for we wait upon you, and we look to you now in Jesus' name. And God's people said , You can be seated. Thank you for standing. I wanted you to see as we read the text this evening that this chapter is teaching us about the coming judgment seat of Christ, or as it is called the Bhima seat. This is the place where every Christian will give an account of himself or herself to the Lord. I believe oftentimes the things that make us uncomfortable in the Word of God are diluted to the point of having insignificance in our way of thinking. When we think about the there's there's usually ditches on both sides of the road in this thing about the judgment seat of Christ. Some would say that the judgment seat of Christ is going to be nothing but a grand time. I feel like Leonard Ravenhill about this. He said, I dread the coming judgment seat. He said, I tremble at the thought. Of giving an account of myself to God. Now, you say, but Pastor, my sins were answered for on the cross of Calvary, and that is absolutely correct. The Bible tells us that the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all unrighteousness. All of our sin was settled at the cross of the Lord Jesus. There's there's there's no sin question here. But my dear friend, the Bible does use words like suffer loss And the Bible does speak here of being saved, yet so as by fire. Meaning that the judgment seat of Christ is going to be An experience, if you'll let me use that word, an experience like no other, where we stand before Him. I want to challenge you tonight to keep in mind that you and I must live in light of the coming judgment seat of the Lord Jesus Christ. When you become a believer, Paul talks about a foundation that is laid, and no other foundation can be laid like this foundation, which is Jesus Christ. He's talking about the foundation of salvation. That foundation is the foundation every person here who's born again has underneath them. So to speak, because if you're saved, you're saved upon the person, merit, work of the Lord Jesus and Him only. He is the foundation. But he does tell me here in the Word of God, let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. So with that in mind, I want you to look at verse number eight. Now, he that planteth and he that watereth are one, and every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor. I want you to notice this evening first the unity of the work. The unity of the work. Notice he says, he that planteth and he that watereth are one. They're one. Now, I know we've got to deal with the individual because he goes up in verse number six and says, I have planted Apollo slaughtered. You see, every one of us here are individuals, and assuming that you are a believer, that you've been born again, you're a part of either the planting or the watering. You're part of that individual. Each one of us have a responsibility. I don't know about you, but this morning as Brother Jones was preaching through Romans chapter number ten, I was reminded again that each one of us who are saved have a responsibility to preach, proclaim, declare the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is not an option thing. You know, we often treat many things in our Christian life like you would a smorgasge board or a cafeteria. We go down the line and we say, you know, we'd like this or we'd like that My father's favorite place was a little cafeteria called J W. And uh what was it? SW What was it? You have to speak louder. I can't hear. J and S, that's it. The old ones were the had the W in it. Okay. J and S. Well, uh you had to be eighty-five to qualify to eat there. I mean, nobody under that was was in there But what I remember about going there is walking down this long line of food, and and the people there acted as if they were perturbed that you were there. And I can remember getting in line and standing there and there's um a rather grumpy individual saying, Meet, sir Or meat, ma'am, or vegetable sir, or vegetable ma'am, and you're like, Yeah, that, please. You know, on a plate, not in my face. But you know, if you didn't want meat, you didn't have to take it. If you didn't want vegetables, you didn't have to take it. But my friend, I want to remind you that there are things that are part and parcel to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I cannot pick nor choose. When it comes to this thing of being a part of what God is doing, I am initiated at the moment of salvation to be a part of what the Lord is doing. I'm either a planter or a waterer. I'm a part, a little part, of God's work. So we see the individual, but I also want you to notice the insignificance. Because in verse number 7, here's what Paul says: so then neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth. Now, why did you have to say that? He had to say that because of the carnality of the Christians in Corinth, who were making a big deal out of the human instruments that God was using. And Paul said it was a mark of carnality. He says in verse number four, while one saith, I am of Paul, and another, I am of Apollos, are ye not carnal? And what was going on in Corinth is that the believers were making idols out of servants. And they were exalting the human instruments that God had used in their assembly or was using in their assembly, and they were idolizing them to the point and and Paul was saying, hey, they're insignificant. What is what's the man that plants it? What's the man that water? All he is is a servant He points this out. He says in verse number five, Who then is Paul and who is Apollos, but ministers by whom you believed, even as the Lord gave to every man? Every individual has someone to thank, so to speak, as an instrument in their salvation. But never are they to be to made idols. You know, we've let in Hollywood sort of Shade our thinking in the church house. And again, it's just a mark of carnality, but we're making superstars out of servants. God's servants, whoever they may be, or whatever they may be, are just simply that. We're servants Paul said it like this, all ye are brethren. There is a a leveling of the of the work, a ground around the cross of Calvary. It brings us all on the same level. And the reality is that the servant or the individual is insignificant in light of the unity of the work. I understand that there are those that we may have an affinity to, but let me just say this: that whenever God's word is preached, We can get something if we come hungry. It doesn't matter who does the preaching It's a sad testament to our walk with God when we, you know, we uh only take from some and we're not willing to take from others. I'm telling you, God's used some mighty insignificant things in the Word of God to deliver really big messages. Naaman, for instance, was a leper who was sentenced to death because of his leprosy, and a little maid carried an important message, and had he been too proud to listen, he might have lost his opportunity. to be healed. And oftentimes we lose the importance of the ingredient God wants to put in our lives because we're all caught up in the wrapper that God delivers it in Sometimes we fail to see that because, and what does Paul say? That's a mark of carnality. Because when these leaders were being idolized, he said again, Are you not carnal? I want you to see the increase though. He says in verse number 6, I have planted, Apollo slaughtered, but please don't forget this. God gave the increase. God always must give the increase. It is God who saves, it is God who who heals, it's God who speaks, it's God who works. My friend, the only increase, if there's any increase, it comes from the hand of the Lord. God gave the increase It's as if Paul was saying, forget about Paul and forget about Apollos. They did their part. But their part is insignificant in light of the fact that it is God who must give the increase. If God doesn't give the increase, you can plant all you want to plant, and it's not going to make a bit of difference. You can water all you want to water, but if God doesn't give the increase, there's not it's not going to cut it's not going to come to anything. The eternal work of God is done by the God of all eternity. It's imperative that God works through his workmen. A work that doesn't involve God's working is no work at all. And again, in light of, and keep this in mind, in light of the coming judgment seat of Christ. We must recognize the unity of the work of God. That God uses every portion in part to make the increase or to edify one another. He uses every member of the body. There's no insignificant part in the work and labor of God. If you've got a place in the work of God, man, it's important. One of the things you learn about the tabernacle and all the various responsibilities divided among the tribes is that everybody's job was significant because it had to do with the tabernacle. Whether you were picking up behind, you were the the the tail of the of the convoy, or whether you were a part of the tearing down and packing away Whatever it is you did, it was significant. Why? Because that it was the tabernacle that you were touching. And brother and sister, let me remind you that as Christians, every labor is significant. Every part and partial of the work of God is something that is important and and your part, you say, but it it it's it's not seen or it's not known. How many of you know that many times it's what's not seen that is more important than what is seen? And so we see this unity of the work of God. But then I want you to see something further. He says again in verse number eight, now he that planteth and he that watereth are one. And every man shall receive his own reward. I want you to notice a universal principle here. And the universal versal principle is seen here in the context, we're talking about Christians Christians who are going to have their lives examined at the judgment seat of Christ, and he talks about building on this foundation gold, silver, precious stone, wood, hay, and stubble. And when you think about what he's saying here, he's telling me that I'm going to give an account to the Lord. The context says in verse 13, every man's work Shall be made manifest. Now watch this. For the day shall declare it. This is a specific day I don't know about you, but growing up as a young man and going to school, there were a few days in the calendar year that I dreaded to see come. Report card day. Wasn't that a joy? Well, for some of you, dear people, it was a delight. But for a number of us individuals, report card day was about like D Day. Um for more reasons than one. But the reality is that it was a day of reckoning. It was a day of exposing. It was a day of saying, Now, this is what the weeks and the months have produced. This is where we at. It was just unveiling what was actually going on. There is going to come a day that will declare By the way, it's not determining any. It's declaring. It's declaring. It's making. Listen, a believer's not going to stand at the judgment seat of Christ. and wonder if he's going to go to heaven or not. No. He's going to stand at the judgment seat of Christ and give an account of himself, and he's either going to receive reward or he's going to suffer loss. It's not going to determine, but it is going to declare. It's going to say that this is this is this is what their life was. This is what our life meant. This is what it counted for. And so we see in the context he's talking about Christians as they give an account. But let me say something else. The Bible is very clear, not in the context here, but in the whole of Scripture, the whole council of Scripture that every man is going to give account of himself to God, lost or saved. The Bible tells me in Revelation Chapter number 20, that there's going to come a day when the dead will stand before God. We're talking about the unsaved, and they're going to give an account. Revelation chapter 20, and let's look at a few verses that are very, maybe very familiar, but very important verses of Scripture. Revelation chapter 20, verse 11. Let's start there. Revelation twenty and verse eleven And the Bible says, I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, watch this, according to their works. Now, I do believe that there's going to be degrees of judgment according to this text. There's going to be now look, hell itself is hell. But there's going to be judgment to whom much is given. There's going to be an accountability based on the awareness or the enlightenment of the individuals. And he says, I'm going to judge them out of their books. What's written in the books? Their works. What I'm trying to say is that this world wants you to think and wants me to think that people can just get off scot-free. That's not true. They may miss the wheels of man's judgment, but no man's going to miss the wheels of God's judgment. They may get by with things down here, but you won't get by with things up there. He's going to settle it all. He's going to rectify things. Man, he's going to set this thing in order. Now don't get discouraged and think for a moment that this that that this world, this evil, wicked world, and the people in it are just gonna just do what they want to do and get by. Not not for one second, friend. The Bible is clear, God's keeping a good set of books. And one of these days, He's going to open those books and He's going to say, now it's time to give an account. Now the saved are going to give that account at the judgment seat or the judgment seat of Christ, but the lost are going to give that account at the great white throne. And it is there, they're going to account, they're going to give an account, and God's going to judge according to their works. Verse 13 the sea gave up the dead, which were in it. Death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them And they were, listen at it, judged every man according to their works. And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire Friend, I don't know about you, but it's a sobering thing to think That there are going to be people you and I know, maybe rub shoulders with, work with, live next door to. There are going to be people that'll stand there and give an account. Real people. This isn't fairy tale. This is the Bible. And just as real and sobering and maybe even unsettling As that thought is, the reality is that I'm going to stand and you're going to stand, you and I who are saved, we're going to stand at that judgment seat of Christ, and we're going to give an account for our lives. I want you to see something here. The Bible is very clear about this universal principle that every man is accountable to God. Every man. If if if men believed that, they wouldn't act like they do. We wouldn't this country wouldn't murder the untold number of babies every year if we really believed every man gives account of himself to God. We wouldn't do that sort of thing. We wouldn't pervert the righteous ways of God and distort what the Bible says and disregard it altogether. You pray, I've been burdened over bringing a message on the Lord's Day. The Lord's Day. What is the Lord's day? Do you realize that we have a whole nation of people that are intoxicated with just defying the Lord's day? Oh, I I I know today that there there seems to be a lot of different thinking, but if we get back to our Bibles and understand what John said, even though he was in exile In on Patmos, he was still in the Spirit on the Lord's day. It was a special day, even though he was unable to assemble with the saints of God. And folks, you and I need to remember something. We're going to give account of ourselves. There's a whole lot of people going to have to answer for a whole lot of things. As they've defiled the Lord's day. And I'll tell you what troubles me even worse is we've got parents run all over with their children and never give two thoughts about the Lord's day. You know what we're doing? We're raising heathen in our country. We're raising children that have no concept of God No reality, no thoughts of God, and we wonder why do they act like they do? You know why? Because they've never been taught what God says in His Word about Himself. about the truth and about the Lord's day, about anything that's right and holy. And my friend, we well, it's just our culture. Well my friend, I've got something bigger than my culture. I've got a Bible And I've got something greater than culture. I've got a Savior. A Savior who's laid claims upon my life and says, This is the way. Walk ye in it. So I see a universal principle here. And then you you'll notice here the conclusion is quite evident in this principle that this final examination is going to be done by the Lord. He's going to determine or declare in my life what's been useless and vain, or what's been for Christ. Romans chapter 14, verse number 12 says, So then every one of us shall give account of himself to God. I'm not going to stand before a tribunal of men. I'm not going to give an account to a body of believers. I'm not going to stand before a group of angels. I'm going to stand before God. Now, when you stop a minute and think what was happening here in Corinth, as they were elevating man And they were desecrating God. They were lowering the Lord in their midst. And they were saying, Oh, I follow Paul, as if it mattered what Paul thought. And they said, other said, oh, I follow Apollos, and then you had that real spiritual bunch said, no, we follow Jesus. But but the the insincerity of that was this. They didn't really believe That they were following just him, that they would give an account to him. Friend, listen, you and I have got to understand something. We are going to give an account to the Lord. And I like, I believe it was Vance Habner who said, I reserve the holy right to disappoint men in the effort to please God. And we need to remember something that friend, you and I are going aren't going to answer to one another. You don't have to worry about what I think, and I don't have to worry about what you think, but I'll tell you who we better worry about. We better worry about what God thinks. Because we're going to answer to him. Every one of us, every one of us. You say, but I'm not saved. You, as my friend, you will answer there at the judgment seat of the great white throne. You will stand before that awful judgment, and he'll judge according to your works. There's going to be an accountability on your part to the Lord. And you and I as Christians need to remember that this is the truth. This is what the Bible teaches. There's this universal principle of accountability to God. That brings me to this, the urgent examination. An urgent examination. Look what it says. Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one. And every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor I believe when we think of this, we have to examine first our activity. What am I doing? Paul talks about two things: planting and watering. Planting and watering. You doing any planting? You know, when you stop and think about what's really important, there's not a whole lot of stuff that's important. When you examine your activity, what is it that I'm doing? What is it that I'm busy about? Do you realize that there's a whole lot of time wasted? There's a whole lot of stuff that just ain't going to matter. You know, these people were wasting. Look what he says in verse number three. He said, there's envy, strife, and divisions. He 's talking about what's going on in Corinth. They're not watering. They're not planting. You know what they're doing? They're fussing. That's what they're doing. There's quarreling among each other. There's envy. There's strife. There's division. And that again, Paul said, that's just because you're carnal. And he's saying that instead of planting the water, by the way, isn't it something when you get busy doing something for God, you don't have time for a lot of the silly things that we often get caught up in? I read the story of a man who took his son and his friends, his son's friend, and they went fishing. But there was a problem. It rained. And so they couldn't get out in their boat and they couldn't go fishing. And so they're stuck in this little camper. And that man said first day they're okay. Second day, everybody's getting a little edgy. And and you know, kind of getting on each other's nerves. He said by the third day, those two boys were at each other's throat, and he had to pull them apart several times. And then he made this statement, when fishermen can't fish, they fight. Christian, when we're not fishing, you know what we're apt to do? We're apt to be fighting If we're not planting and watering, if if we're not involved in the in the work of God and and see what you know what we'll be doing? We'll be we'll be backbiting and fault finding and And causing division, being a part of that, tearing one another apart. But when you realize that, hey, I've got a limited amount of time And my time is is is quickly passing, and my life is ru I'm it's running through like the sands in an hourglass. Boy, she's leaving out of here quick, and what I do for Christ is the only thing that matters. Now, if we get a hold of that, you know what? All of the the envy, strife, and division will just seem to fall away as unimportant. Years ago, when I first started pastoring, a lady came to me so upset, I thought, man, somebody's done really something really bad to her. And she was crying and saying, I don't think I can come to this church ever again. And she was so upset I thought, well, I don't know what happened. You know, I I've got some folks out they're capable of anything, so I don't know what's going on. And she says, I went into the restroom and there was no tissue. And I said, and? I am so I just can't come back. And I I mean it really shook me then. And and I stood there thinking, in of all the things that are important And that was back, I guess, maybe before I had much tact or sense, and not sure I got much of either yet. But I said, do you know where it's at? I think they keep it under the I said, can you please go put one in And just like that, she stopped crying and turned around, and I guess she went to the restroom and she put a roll tissue in. Now you and I think, well, how silly, but you know there's a lot of things that we are really get bent out of shape about that are just as silly or maybe worse. And it's just a mark of carnality. It's just saying, hey, I don't have my eyes on Christ. I don't have my heart in the work. I'm not planting. I'm not watering. I'm busy fussing and fighting and and I'm not I'm I I'm not really living in light of the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ So there's an examination of my activity. Am I planting? Am I watering? Who am I telling about the Lord? Who am I sharing the gospel with? Who am I praying diligently for to get born again James Stewart said his mother had a habit over in Scotland when they would go to the evening meeting. The evening meeting was always evangelistic And they would try to win people to Christ in that evening meeting, and so they would uh they would pray and they would work to that end, and the the preacher would bring a gospel message. And he said she would take a long way to church as they walked. And as they walked to church, she would go through a park and she'd tell James to go around the other way. Just a little boy. He said one day he snuck through the park behind her because he was curious what she was doing. Why did she always want to go that way and go by herself? And he said he ran ahead and he hid in some bushes and he watched as she walked by, and he said she was weeping and he could hear her crying. uh calling out somebody's name and she was praying, oh God please save them tonight. Lord, please do a work in their heart tonight. And you know what she was doing? She was watering. She was getting involved in the rescuing of some soul for the Lord Jesus Christ. Friend, listen, there's something big to do with the time that you've got on this earth. I think we often forget that the church is a battleship, not a cruise ship. It's not that she's here for our enjoyment, she's here for our engagement. It is not for us to merely sail some course and enjoy the ride, friend. We're to engage and be used of God in this great battle. So we see the urgent examination of our activity. And then we see also the accountability. Paul says this in verse number 10: let every man take heed how he buildeth thereon. I need to stop and take heed what I'm building. I need to stop and take heed that one day I'm going to give an account. The foundation is laid. That foundation is Jesus Christ. But I'm building on that foundation. I'm adding to, if you will, that foundation, these labors and my life as I'm living it, and I'm accountable for that. I wonder how much of our lives are going to simply go up in smoke He says, if any man build on this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, well, you know the fire's not going to hurt that. But the wood, hay, and stubble, it's going to consume all of that. Can you imagine? Living your whole life for something that don't matter. I don't know about you, but I don't want to waste my time. I shouldn't say my time. It's not my time. It's the Lord's time. It's the life that He's given me. And as he entrusts me with that, I don't want that to just go by. Our lives are not meant to be just spent. They need to be invested. And invested in something important. I often pray, God, don't let me waste time. Don't let me spin my wheels. I'm accountable for these few brief moments. I was talking to someone last week, and I believe the brother told me he was 44. 44. And he shook his head and he said, Isn't that incredible? Where did those years go? Now some of you that are maybe double that are saying, wait till he's here. But whatever place you're at in life, isn't it incredible how quick it's gone? I was thinking the other day, 50, where did where did 50 years of my life go? It's just, it's truly a vapor. What is your life? James says it's even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. And what have we got to show for it? I'm talking about eternal things. What if our lives have counted for eternal with eternal significance? We not only need to examine our activity, we need to examine our accountability, but then finally, let me say this: we need to examine our availability. You've heard this. The greatest ability is availability. It's not the ability to do something or be something, but just Lord, what did What did Isaiah respond when the Lord said, Who shall I send? Who will go? He said, Here am I, here am I, send me Lord, I'm available. Whatever it is you want me to do, Lord, I'm available. I remember struggling with the call to preach. A brother asked me today, he said, How did you know you were called to preach? And I stopped and I thought , it's hard to answer. You know when you know And that didn't satisfy him, and so I thought a bit more, and I was thinking of this, and I remember the Lord bringing the place that I just surrendered. I said, Lord, I don't know what it is you want me to do, but I'm willing to do it. Whatever that is, you know, I remember saying to the Lord, Lord, if you want me to sing, I'll sing. And some of you say, I'm glad God didn't tell you to do that. And I am too. But see, what God's looking for tonight, brother, sister, is your availability. Are you available to God? Are you saying, Lord, here am I? Here am I. Uh our brother in in Africa now, Brother Eric, he he made a statement that I have just really chewed on a lot. He he when he came back from the Ukraine and Took his home church and pastored there for however many years, and then God called his family to uh Malawi. And he made this statement, he said, I just stayed surrendered. I just stayed surrendered. I said, Lord, here am I. If you want me here, I'll be here. If you want me there, I'll be there. He just stayed surrendered. Doesn't the Bible say that you're to present your bodies a living sacrifice? And so can I ask you tonight, are you surrendered? Are you available for God to use? Have you just put yourself out and said, Lord, here am I, whatever it is you want me to do? whatever it is you want me to be. But what Lord, I want to be a part of the planting and watering. I want to be a part of of something eternal and significant. Lord, I don't want to waste my time or spend my wills. Lord, I want to count for the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, here am I. And oftentimes we say, but the Lord can't use me. I I I I I don't have what it takes for the Lord to use. Can I read you something here? I I I I Found this several years ago. Dr. Walt Larimore is the author of it. And he made this statement. He's a medical doctor and a Christian. He ministered in Rysson City, North Carolina for years, had a practice there, and then moved down to Florida. But he wrote this, and let me read it quickly. The master was searching for a vessel to use. On the shelf there were many. Which one would he choose? Take me, cried the gold one, I'm shiny and bright. I'm of great value, and I do things just right. My beauty and lustre will outshine the rest, and for some one like you, Master, gold would be the best. The master passed on with no word at all. He looked at a silver urn, narrow and tall. I'll serve you, dear master. I'll pour out your drink. And I'll be at your table whenever you dine. My lines are so graceful, my carvings so true, and my silver will always complement you. Unheeding the master passed on to the brass. It was wide mouthed and shallow and polished like glass. Hear, hear, cried the vessel, I know I will do Place me on your table for all men to view. Look at me, called the goblet of crystal, so clear. My transparency shows my contents so dear. Though fragile am I, I will serve you with pride, and I'm sure I'll be happy in your house to abide. The master came next to the vessel of wood. Polished and carved it solidly stood. You may use me, dear master, the wooden bowl said, but I'd rather you use me for fruit, not for bread. Then the master looked down and saw a vessel of clay. Empty and broken it helplessly lay. No hoof had that vessel that the master might choose to cleanse and make whole, to fill and to use. Ah, this is the vessel I've been hoping to find. I will mend and use it and make it all mine. I need not the vessel with pride of itself, nor the one who is narrow to sit on the shelf Nor the one who is big-mouthed and shallow and loud, nor one who displays his contents so proud, not the one who thinks he can do all things just right. but this plain earthly vessel filled with my power and might. Then gently he lifted the vessel o'clay, mended and cleansed it, and filled it that day. He spoke to it kindly. There's work you must do. Just pour out to others as I pour into you. Now, friend, that's what he's looking for. He's looking for someone that he can pour into that will pour out to others. Just simple vessels of clay. Are you available? We need to examine our availability. Lord, here am I. I don't know what you want me to do, but I'm willing to do it. I'm willing. In light of the coming judgment, brother, sister, you and I need to examine these truths. You and I need to consider where we are and who we are and what we're doing. Are you simply piling up wood, hay, and stubble, building, and listen, I don't care how big the pile gets, it'll burn just the same. But what about the gold and the silver and the precious stone? What about those things that count for Christ? Oh, may God help us to live in light of the coming judgment. Would you stand with me, please? We'll have a hymn of invitation. You may need to come pray