I hope that's your desire to finish well. And may the Lord help us to do just that. I want you to take your Bibles and go with me, please, to the book of Hebrews. We're going to start in chapter number 12, and we're going to do something here a little different than what we normally do. We're going to look at several passages of Scripture Hebrews chapter 12 is just going to be our launching spot, but we're going to study a word. We've got a lot of tools that we can use to study the Bible. And I'll remind you that the Bible tells us that we're to study to show ourselves approved unto God. And I don't believe that study is just the preacher's job. I believe all of God's people ought to be students of the Bible And as we study the Word of God, there are tools that we have to be able to learn things from God's Word. One of those tools is to study a Word. And of course, our the Bible teaches us that all scripture is given by inspiration of God. We believe that God inspires every word. Every word of God's word is God's word. And so words are very important. In fact, God is never at a loss for words. When God goes to communicate something, he specifically chooses words to convey what it is that he wants you and I to understand. And so it's important for us to study words. We're going to look at this word looking. The word looking. It's used 24 times in the Bible. In our New Testament, about half of those times that it's used is in the New Testament. And we're going to look at six or eight of those time permitting here this evening. But Hebrews chapter number 12, let's read beginning in verse number 1. And I'll invite you to stand, please, as we honor God's precious word. Hebrews chapter 1 Verse number one. The Bible says, Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight And the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. What's the next word in verse 2? Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Let's have a word of prayer and we'll begin our study. Father We come in Jesus' name. And we thank you for the privilege that we have to pray, and we thank you for the privilege that we have to be in your house. We ask you this evening, Lord, to just speak to us very clearly. I thank you, Lord, for that still small voice, as we open the pages of God's Word and open our hearts to what it is that you want to do in our lives. And I pray, Father, that we will just hear and heed, and Lord, we'll receive and apply and live just what it is that you give us from this book tonight. We thank you, Lord, for your love for us. Lord help me. I pray you'd hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up the Lord Jesus. I pray you'd speak to all of us as we need, and God will give you the glory, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. Well, here in Hebrews chapter 12, this is probably the most familiar one uh uh as far as the word looking that we're going to look at this evening because uh many of you, maybe all of you, know this verse quite well But if you stop and think about what this word means, and by the way, so many of these words, these words that are translated looking, carry with them so many different shades of meaning. Our English language, if I can say it like this, is limited in comparison to the Greek Hebrew language I'm not saying that it's inferior, but it's limited as far as its scope and its meaning. And here when we come to this word looking, man, it it can have five, ten uh different meanings and and such a broad application here. And so I want you to see that tonight. Number one, I want you to see the look of concentration. The look of concentration The Bible says we're to be looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. It's a look of concentration. Do you know that this word means to look away from one thing so you can fix your eyes on another? Now look, I I want you to try something here real quick this evening. I want you to look two directions at once. Can you do that? You can't look to your left and look to your right all at the same time. I mean sitting there on the pew, you you can't look over You know, if I was right here in line with this front row, I couldn't look over and see Brother Dickerson and see Brother Harvey all at the same time. I've got to look at one or the other. That's the way the Lord's made us And this look of concentration is to move your eyes from one thing so as to fix it on another. And what the Bible is teaching me here is that I am to look with concentration on the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm not to look over here in the world and then look back to the Lord Jesus. You know I've learned something as I get older. When I go to look at something, my hand follows what I'm looking at. Does yours do that when you're driving? It used to never do that to me, but now when I'm going down the road and I go to look at something, next thing you know, I'm going that way. You know I guess that's just just par for the course, I reckon. But the reality is, is that you, my friend, are going to go the direction that you're looking. You're going to go in the direction that you're looking. If you're looking under the world, you're going to go in the world's direction If you're looking unto Jesus, you're going to be going in his direction. And so here's a look of concentration. Mine eyes are to be fixed. On the Lord Jesus. You know why we're to fix our eyes on the Lord Jesus? Because he's the author of our faith. He's the reason we're saved. He's the reason we're saved. You know what we do here every Lord's Day? We take our Bibles and we hear messages, we open our hymn books and we sing hymns. We bow our heads and pray. We're helping ourselves look unto Jesus. We're getting our eyes back on the one who saved us. And I don't know about you, but I need that. I need that extra encouragement from time to time to get my eyes back on the Lord. There's a whole lot of things going on in the world that will drag you down and get your attention fixed. And discourage your heart and burden you burden you down. I was telling a brother today, I just had to quit looking at all these flood videos and pictures and stuff. Because I I just I I know all those places and I recognize all those places and I look at 'em just hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and it's just heartbreaking. Your heart gets heavy, yes That's all the devastation that you see. And you read about that and you get fixed on that sort of thing. And man, it's discouraging. But I'm glad when I open my Bible, I see the Lord Jesus And as a believer, I'm to be concentrated on him. I'm to be looking unto Jesus. It don't matter how bad the world gets, the Lord will not change. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And so this is the look of concentration. Let me ask you, where are you looking Tonight. Where are you looking? What's the concentration of your mind? What's the fixation of your heart? Are you looking unto Jesus You need to be looking unto him because he's the author of your faith. Number two, we need to be looking unto Jesus because he's the finisher. Brother and Sister Hitchens encouraged us tonight to finish well. You know who the finisher is, the real finisher? The Lord Jesus. You know how you'll finish well? Look under Jesus. Just keep looking under Jesus. Just keep looking. You say, preacher, what if I go in a valley? Just keep looking under Jesus. What if I get up on a mountain, just keep looking unto Jesus? What if I got a a a hard hill to climb, just keep looking unto Jesus? I if you and I will keep looking unto Jesus, we will finish well. I believe one of the reasons the Apostle Paul could say what he did, I have fought a good fight, I have kept the faith, I finished my course because he kept looking unto Jesus. It's very evident in the last letter he pinned as he wrote to young Timothy and spoke of his departure. He understood very clearly what was coming, but he also was looking unto Jesus in the meantime. So let me encourage you, believer, not only do we look unto Jesus because he's the author, but we look unto him because he's the finisher. And here's the third reason we should be looking unto Jesus, because of the joy. The joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. You say, what are you talking about? I'm talking about the joy of doing God's will. Just the joy of doing God's will. You know why we look under Jesus? He's the example. He's the example of finishing right. He did God's will. He was born to die on Calvary. He died on Calvary. He was born to pay for the sin debt of the whole world. He paid the sin debt of the whole world. He was born to rise again, and thank God he did. He rose again out of the out of the grave and and and he was born to sit on the throne and he's seated right now. at the right hand of the throne of God, the joy of doing God's will. I'm saying this evening that there not there must be, there must be this look of concentration upon the Lord Jesus. Man, so many times we get our eyes. You know what you can do? It's awful easy to get your eyes on your church. And here's what we're doing, looking at our church. Looking under our church. You want to get discouraged? Look under your church. You know why? Because it's made up of flawed people. Amen. The pastor being the chief flaw. That's why we don't look under one another. Well it's easy. I'll tell you what, let me pick on Ben a minute. He's my brother and can take it. Isn't it easy to get fixed on something and say now that Ben caused That rascal. And just go down the line of all the things that you think then ought to do and change and all this. And next thing you know, you know what you've done? You're looking unto him. And all you're ever going to see, and he knows this and would testify it loudly, all you're going to see if you're looking unto Ben is imperfection. Because that's what we're made out of. That's the reality of our nature. But aren't you glad that when you look to Jesus, you don't see any fault? You don't see any failure. In fact, I believe Solomon was looking beyond and seeing something more than an earthly relationship when he said he's altogether lovely. He recognized that there's no imperfections, there's no faults, there's no failures in the Lord Jesus. He truly is altogether lovely. He's the perfect one. So be looking unto him. That's the look of concentration. Looking unto Jesus. Quickly, number two, I want you to look at another place here in chapter 12, down at verse number 15. Hebrews chapter twelve and verse number fifteen, it says this looking diligently Lest any man fail of the grace of God. Now let me say this the grace of God don't fail. God's grace does not fail. No believer has ever needed grace and it not been sufficient. But you know what does fail? You and I. We fail of the grace of God. That's what he's saying here, looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God. How? Lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled. This is the look of inspection. We've looked at the look of concentration, but this is the look of inspection. The word here simply means to inspect, to look it over carefully. Or to beware. I don't know about you, but when I go somewhere and they've got a big sign that says, Beware of the dog, I'm looking for the dog. I want to see what kind it is. I want to see how mean it looks. I want to see it. I want to know what kind of dog that we're dealing with. And that's that idea of being aware. Beware. Looking and inspecting and looking carefully over. It means that you're you're diligent about looking for what we're being warned about here. And what are we warned about? It says that we fail of the grace of God. In other words, that we fail to utilize the grace of God to overcome what it is that is potentially destructive in our lives. And the very first thing that he points out is the root of bitterness. The root of bitterness. I want you to notice that the danger of bitterness is that it destroys the container in which it resides. Now bitterness comes because we're upset with someone usually or some event. And the reality is that sometimes that that bitterness We think it's doing something to them when it's really doing its harm in you. It's doing harm on the inside. You know what he said? Beware of that. You ought to look at this like the beware of dog sign and be looking around every corner for any root of it springing up in your harder life. And saying, Lord, don't let me get bitter. I've prayed this, well, I've prayed this since I was 16 years old. I don't want to become a bitter old preacher. I've known some. They've been done wrong and and gone through hard things and next thing you know they're bitter. They're bitter at people, they're bitter at God, they're bitter at everything. I don't want to become that, and you know what I gotta do? I gotta beware. I gotta watch because around every corner is the opportunity for that to happen. Beware, watch this, beware, he says, looking diligently. Lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you. And here's something amazing to me, thereby many be defiled. He said this this is not just a small problem. This is a big problem. I bet if I went around this room, I I could ask you, do you know someone who's bitter and mad at God or God's people and are not living for the Lord? I I would venture everybody could raise their hand. I think every there could be everyone say, I know somebody. I know somebody that bitterness overtook. I know someone that bitterness put them out of the race. I know someone that bitterness sprung up and they and they they didn't get a hold on it. If you've ever grown a garden, you know this weeds grow real well. And uh you can look at that garden and and you can go there today and you can say, Man, my garden looks nice and and you might see one or two little little weeds starting to pop up and you say well I got a few days. Well you come back a few days later and you got a jungle. And you're in there trying to clean that thing up. You know why? Because they just they just multiply rapidly. They seem to come out of nowhere. Do you know bitterness is like that? That word of springing up means to just pop up suddenly It can come up, it seems like out of nowhere, it can come up overnight. It can come up in an instant. And here's this looking, here's this looking I'm to be diligent about looking to make sure, hey, that doesn't c that doesn't come up. I need to pull that up. Little garden we uh tried to grow a few years ago was was full of milkweed. And I've never realized how hard that it is to get rid of that stuff. And you you could pull, pull, pull. I I pulled up I don't know how many hundreds of milkweed plants and and the next thing you go back and they're back again. Here they are again. And and it's like they brought their brothers and sisters with them and said, hey, we found a good place to come up. And and you just constantly have to stay at it and stay at it and stay at it and Finally I said something to someone, they give me an idea and said this will get rid of them and thank the Lord it did. But but the reality is so long as that root or a portion of that root from that milkweed stays in the ground, it'll come up And it'll spring up without very little effort or care. And that's the way bitterness is. Bitterness grows naturally in the soil of man's heart. And I've got to be looking diligently. Look, there's grace to take care of bitterness. God's grace will take care of anything. And God's grace is sufficient even for us not to grow bitter. There is grace for that. But if I fail to utilize that grace God's given me, that bitterness can take over my heart. And so I'm to be looking. I'm to be looking diligently. This is the look of inspection. It's looking carefully and saying, Is that a bit of bitterness? Is that a root? Is that a is that a notion? Is that a tendency? Is that a suggestion that there's bitterness in my heart? God forgive me. You say, What do you do with it? You do what you do with every sin. First John 1 9. If we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That's the only way to get rid of that root of bitterness. And the thing is you've got to stay at it till you get the root. So that's the look of inspection. Let's go back to Hebrews 10. Here's another time it's used. Hebrews chapter 10 and verse number 27. This is the look, not of concentration, not of inspection, but the look of condemnation. Hebrews 10 27 says, But a certain fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation which shall devour the adversaries. By the way, this word means to expect and wait. To expect and wait. It 's to be convinced it's coming, but again, the reality is the people that are expecting it are not fearful of it. If we go back and read in verse 26, it says, For if we sin willfully, after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins. But a certain fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation which shall devour the adversaries. He that despised Moses law died without mercy. under two or three witnesses. Of how much sore punishment, suppose ye shall he be thought worthy who hath trotted underfoot the Son of God, and hath counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified an unholy thing, and hath done despite unto the Spirit of Grace I'm going to say this. He's not talking to a believer. This is a Christ rejector. This is an apostate. This is someone who knows the truth and turns away from it and rejects it wholesale. They know the truth that Christ died for sin. They know the truth. By the way, the devil knows more truth than most Christians do. They know the truth. They know that Christ is the only Savior. They know that the blood must wash their sin away. They know that salvation is by grace through faith. Plus nothing, minus nothing. And yet they walk away. And they s they trot underfoot. They literally wipe their feet on the blood of the Son of God. And he said, Do you know what They died under the law without mercy when they rejected and went against the law. How much sore punishment will they be worthy of if they do that to Jesus Christ? Please listen to me. If you have rejected Christ or you reject the Lord Jesus Christ, you've got one thing to expect, and that's condemnation from God. I'm not saying that with joy. I'm saying that with earnestness and seriousness, because the reality is if you reject him, you have rejected your only hope. You're not going to get another chance. There's not a second way out. There's not two doors of salvation. You have turned your back and walked over the only way to be saved They tell me at Niagara Falls there's a sign that if you're coming down the river that forms these falls that warns you this is the point of no return If you get to this place, there's no going back. The water's force will carry you up and over those falls, and your demise is certain. And I'm saying tonight that if you turn your back on the Son of God, there's no more hope. This is the looking of of condemnation. This is the expectation that yes, I will be judged. Yes, it will be sore punishment. Yes, the reality is every man who rejects Christ will be separated from God forever. in the lake of fire. That's the reality of that looking. Now listen, the world don't want to hear that. The Christ rejector don't want to hear that. The religious in our day who want to say there's there's multiple ways to heaven. Rick Warren embracing Islam, Roman Catholicism, and Christianity, and saying, look, we're all going to the same place. Well, I'll just say this The crowd he's running with, they're all going to the same place. And the reality is that they've rejected Jesus Christ. And when you reject Jesus Christ, there's no hope for you. There's no hope for salvation. Some little tender-hearted Christian reads this and gets all tore up and says, Oh, I hope I have not uh you know committed willful sin. The willful sin that's spoken of here is to wholesale reject Jesus and his blood. There's no salvation for a person who will not come to Christ. Oh, my friend, that individual sadly can expect nothing and wait for nothing but God's judgment, God's sore punishment. He says, We know him that saith, Vengeance belongeth unto me. I will recompense, saith the Lord. And boy, verse 31, it's a fearful thing to fall in the hands of the living God. Ma, ma, ma. It's a fearful thing. To fall into the hands of a living God. That's the look of condemnation. Do you know there's going to come a day when this world will realize they have rejected The only way of salvation. And yet, it's going to be nothing but rebellion building in their heart. It's amazing to me that I read in the Revelation that men will raise their fist heavenward. And they'll defy God. They'll defy Him. It just shows where our hearts go when we turn away from our only hope. I'm going to say this, if you're not saved and troubled in your spirit, don't turn away the workings of the Spirit of God. Don't grieve the Holy Spirit. Don't don't don't say no any longer. You know what you're doing? You're hardening your heart You're hardening your heart and you each time you're putting a a nail down, so to speak, in this thing of judgment, and and listen, you need to let God work and realize that Jesus is the only way That there's no other way to be saved. Christ made a way, thank God. It is the way. He is the way. He is the truth and the life. And my friend, don't reject him any longer because your soul's salvation depends on receiving the Lord Jesus. As many as received him, to them gave thee power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Oh, what a salvation Jesus gives. This is the look of condemnation. Would you go to another place with me? Let's go to the book of Titus, please. Titus chapter number two, and we're going to start there, and we'll look at several others, but Titus chapter number two and verse number 13 Titus chapter 2, verse number 13. Notice it starts out, what does it start out with? What's the word? Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. Here is the look of anticipation. This means to look with anticipation of a fulfilled promise. This is to look with the anticipation of a fulfilled promise. You know, I learned early in my life, if my mother said, you're going to get it when your daddy gets home, I got it. It was not an idle threat. Now I wish it Mark, I wished it had been. It has saved me a whole lot of trouble. But it was not idle threats. She said, When you're you wait till daddy gets home. And and you know, I learned as I grew up that that that you know when he got home it She and you know my mother bless her heart she's in heaven as is daddy but you know I I think sometimes she would linger telling him To make it a little bit more challenging. I just I when when he walked through the door, tell him, just get it over with, get this thing behind us, and let's go on. She wouldn't do that Sometimes we'd sit down and eat our supper. He'd like to do that at a particular time, and we'd sit down and eat our supper, wouldn't tell him. He'd get his coffee and go out on the front porch and he'd drink his coffee, she wouldn't tell him And I'm in, you know, I'm in there thinking, tell him. I'm gonna go tell him. If you don't tell him, I'm gonna tell him. So we get this thing behind us. You know, God doesn't make idle threat. Everything He promises, He does Jesus said, If I go, I will come again. To receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. That's a promise. That's a promise you can count on. And as you sit here this evening, you can expect God to fulfill that promise. Titus said, We're looking for that blessed hope. I want to say this. I don't care how dark it gets down here. God's people have the blessed hope. What is the blessed hope? The glorious appearing. of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. His coming for you and I. Listen, don't change your theology to fit your times. Let the Bible declare to you what time you're living in. And we're living in that time of looking for the blessed hope. We're looking for the trumpet to sound. We're looking for the Lord to come. We're looking for the dead in Christ to rise first. We're looking for those who are alive and remain to be caught up together to meet the Lord in the air. Someone said, I'm not looking for the undertaker, I'm looking for the uppertaker. That's pretty good that's pretty good truth. We need to be looking for the coming of the Lord Jesus And do you know from Paul's time to this, his coming has been imminent? He could come at any moment. We are looking, you know, over here in the little book of Jude. Will you go there with me quickly? The book of Jude, look at verse 21. This is a looking, this is the same word that's used in the same teaching as what we're speaking of here, the look of anticipation. But Jude 21 says, look, keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. You know what I'm looking for when he comes? I'm not looking for a judge who will sit on a throne and condemn me. I'm not looking for someone that will squash me in my deservedness of judgment. I'm looking for mercy. I'm looking for the mercy that's in the Lord Jesus Christ. By the way, he's the only place you'll ever find mercy He is the merciful God, and I'm looking for that mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. I don't deserve to be saved, but I am saved, not because of what I've done, but because of what the Lord Jesus has done And the mercy that He's going to bring when He comes is going to be extended. That's what I'm looking for. When the Lord comes, you know people I don't think God's people ought to live in a a sense of dread or fear of the coming of the Lord. Because he's coming. If you're saved, he's coming with mercy. He's coming and he's he's coming with loads of mercy. to bring eternal life. We already have eternal life. He's going to usher us into the reality of eternal life. And my friend, we're going to enjoy that for all of eternity. We're looking for mercy. The mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ Look at another place over in 2 Peter. Go back a few books. 2 Peter chapter number 3. 2 Peter chapter 3. And again, here's another looking, and it's one of those lookings of believing God to fulfill a promise or anticipating God to fulfill his promise. 2 Peter 3 says, looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. Nevertheless, we according to his promise, what do we look for? New heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness? Wherefore, beloved, seeing that you look for such things, be diligent, that you may be found of him in peace without spot and blameless You know what you're looking for will determine how you live. If you're looking, Lord, I'm looking for you to come. Well, you won't be living in such a way that you'll be ashamed at His coming When you're looking for the Lord to come, you're saying, Lord, I'm looking for you to come. I know you're coming at any moment. And because of that, he says, we'll live those lives. That are diligent, being found to him in peace, without spot and blameless. This is that look of anticipation. The Lord made a promise I read the story of a little girl who had broken her leg and her dad went for help. They were building a cabin in a remote area and uh she had had gotten hurt. Her dad knew that he couldn't carry her for to to safety or carry her to be helped. So he walked out and he left her this promise, I will be back and I'll bring help with me. It was quite a long walk and and and took uh quite a bit of time for him to get to somewhere where he could get some assistance and bring them back to this cabin where they were working. And one of the men who returned with him to to render first aid and such, said to the little girl, Were you scared while your father was gone? She said, No. And he thought she was just painting on a brave face, you know, and And uh sh he said again, he said, Are you sure? He said, Did you did you not get fearful up here by yourself? She said, Oh no. My dad said he'd come back, and I believed that he would Now children listen, the children of God, your heavenly father said, Jesus is coming again. Your Bible declares that he's going to return. And you and I live through this old veil of tears with the glad expectation that one glad day the Lord is going to come And you can be looking for it. Don't let this crowd shame you into not looking for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. You believe your Bible until the Bible deniers And the game sayers to go jump off a bridge somewhere, and you just believe what God says and keep looking for Jesus to come back. Looking unto Jesus. Oh friend, let me ask you something. Are you looking for anything? Are you looking? Are you a people that are that are diligently anticipating, looking with concentration on the Lord Jesus? What you focused on tonight? Are you looking with inspection, making sure that there's no root of bitterness or anything that would defile you springing up in your heart? Or it may be you're listening, maybe present. God knows. But that look of condemnation is a reality because you know you're without Christ. And maybe you're in the valley of decision and you're standing there saying, Do I receive him? Do I reject him? Let me sound the warning clear once more. To reject Jesus Christ is to choose hell in all of its agony. But to receive him is to find pardon and forgiveness and bringing into the family of God something you can't get anywhere else. Maybe it's the look of anticipation. Are you looking for the Lord to come? Listen , I don't know what all the Lord's going to let us live through down here. I don't believe the rapture is meant to make us lazy spiritually. There's nothing to be further from the truth. But whatever may come, I'm not looking for Antichrist. Can I be quite honest with you? I don't care who he is. I'm not interested. I'm not looking. You say, oh that's that's childish, that's childish. Well, say what you want to say, but I've never been told in my Bible to look for him. I've never been told to look for it. I've been told to look for the Christ. And I'm not I I'm not looking. I I remember as a boy when uh who was that leader Gorbachev when he was in office and he had this birthmark on his head. I heard message after message. That's the symbol of the Antichrist. That's a 666. Man, Brother Richard, I heard some powerful preaching on that. Here we are, it wasn't him. You know why? Because we was looking for the wrong thing. If you you get caught up in something, you'd be looking, oh I'm I'm I'm looking for the tribulation to come. You don't have to worry about the tribulation. You're not going to be here when it comes. You and I don't need to be looking for the man of sin. We're going to be gone before he comes. I'm telling you, you need to be looking for Jesus because he's going to come. He said he would come. And hallelujah, one of these days he will come. It may sound childish, but this crowd that gives us a hard time about believing Jesus is coming, and I believe some of them are saved, but I hope I'm real near one of them Because when he calls us out, I'm just gonna go, I told you so. We're heading out. You can hang around down here if you want to, but that's not what God's done. Listen, his salvation, he didn't save you to bring you through the tribulation. He saved you from the tribulation. And the day, the glad day is going to come when you see Jesus face to face. Hallelujah, what a day that is. Are you looking for him? Are you anticipating with eagerness that promise? The Lord said, I'm coming. I'm coming. Are you ready? Are you living like you're ready? May the Lord help us. May the Lord help us. Would you stand with me, please?