I want you to open your Bible, please, to 1 John chapter number 4. 1 John chapter number 4. And I'm going to start reading in verse number 7 this morning, 1 John chapter number 4. When you found your place, I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please, and I'll read this portion aloud. I'm going to read down to verse number 19. First John chapter number four, starting in verse number seven The Bible says, beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God. And everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. In this was manifested the love of God toward us. Because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through Him. Herein is love, not that we loved God. But that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Hereby know we that we dwell in him and he in us, because he hath given us of his Spirit. And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God. And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. Herein is our love made perfect. That we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in this world. There is no fear in love. But perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. Now please note verse 19. This is our text We love Him because He first loved us. Let's pray. Father, we come in Jesus' name. And thank you again, Lord, for the privilege to read your word. Lord, I want to thank you that everything I just read is absolutely true. Lord, the parts I understand, the parts I don't understand. I'm grateful, Lord, that your word is forever settled in heaven. I thank you this morning that we have this privilege together. I thank you for all of these that made the effort. No, it was extra effort to come out in the weather. I pray, Lord, you'll speak to our hearts, for you know what we need. I ask you, Lord, to have your will and way and help us. We'll give you the glory. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Lord, these few moments hide me behind the cross. Empty me of self. Fill me with the Savior. Help me to lift up Jesus. For he alone is worthy, for it's in his mighty name we pray. Amen. Amen. You can be seated. Well, it's been in my heart these days to preach on this thing of God's love. We started two weeks ago looking at the Savior's love for his church, how the Lord loved the church and gave himself for it. And then on last week we looked at the saints' love, the love that's reproduced in the heart of a Christian. It's there because they know the Lord. Today I want to look at the supremacy of love. And I don't know if you noticed as we read through that passage, and I know a lot of it, you've just got to stop and think about what's being said. But you covered the whole Christian life in these number of verses we just read. And from beginning to end, it is marked by the love of God. It is the measure of New Testament Christianity. Let me give you a brief outline here to study this with. We're not going to look at all this. But I want you to notice in verse 7, 8, and 8, the origin of love. Where does love start? It starts with God. You'll notice, beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God. And everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. Now we're not talking about that weak and uh almost uh sissy type thing that's called love in the culture we live in. We're talking about that kind of love that nailed a man on a cross. And the kind of love that made him shed his blood so that you could be saved. The kind of love that that'll transform a man's heart to make him what he can't be until he knows that love, and that love changes us. and makes us into what it is God saved us to be. I'm talking about a very strong love. But we see its origin is in God. Then in verses 9 and 10 we see the operation of that love. See, God's love was not words only, it was deeds. As Brother Mrs. Dow just reminded us, that it was a love demonstrated on Calvary. That he loved us, God. Romans 5. 8 says, but God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners Christ died for us. Now that's love. He loved me when I was a low-down, good for nothing, hell-deserving, hell-bound sinner. And he loved me. That's God's love. God loved me like that. He didn't love my sin, but he sure loved my soul. And thank God that he went to the cross and paid the sin debt in full. That's the operation of love. And then verses 11 to 18, which is really the larger part of this, is the outflow of that love. What does it look like in everyday life? He says, starting off, beloved, verse 11, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another And he talks about the outflow, the reality of that love being lived out in our daily lives. I say again, the mark of New Testament, Christianity is the love of God. I do believe much that his passing as Christianity, even in fundamental circles, is not New Testament Christianity because it lacks the love of God. You can't read the Bible and not see God's love stamping God's people. You can't watch the life of Jesus without seeing the love of God being stamped upon his person. His ministry, his miracles, his rebukes. All that he did, he did in that love. That love that's real and genuine and true. And so all through this New Testament we see that the love of God was an awful powerful thing that motivated God's people. It marked them as the people of God. It set them apart as being different. The very first martyr of the New Testament church. The very first man killed for his faith in Christ got on his knees as they stoned him to death and said, Father, forgive him. Now, folks, that's love. There's no other explanation. There's no other word that you can say. There's no other reason you can give. Other than the love of God and Jesus Christ made a man do that, prayed God's forgiveness on the very people who has taken his life. And we come to our text, and I want you to see in verse 19 these eight powerful words. We love him because he first loved us. We love him because he first loved us. I want you to look with me at just three simple things. Number one , I want to look at what's stated here. I'm going to talk about stating the obvious. And what is the obvious? Well, it's right here in the first three words. We love him. If I can just make it plain this morning, saved people love the Lord. If a person's not saved, they don't love the Lord, they can't love the Lord. But saved people love the Lord. We love Him. John 's and Bob and everyone who ever put their faith in the Lord Jesus. And he's saying that we bear something in common. Now, I look out over this congregation and people are as different as the faces I see looking back. Different backgrounds, different personalities, different uh upbringing, all s I mean differences of all sorts. But if we're saved this morning, we have this one thing in common. We love him. That's what's important. We love him. I want you to see it here in the passage that salvation is the beginning of this love. Look with me in verse 7 again. He says, Beloved , let us love one another, for love is of God, and every one that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. Salvation is the beginning of that love. Friend, listen, when when you got saved, God put something in you you didn't have until you got born again. You didn't love God. You say, Well, preacher, I've always loved God. Well, you need to back up and ask the question: when did you get saved and when did that love for God begin? Man 's not born in love with God. Man's born at war with God. Every man is born in his sin, and born in sin, the Bible says, because of our sin, we're at enmity with God. That means we're born with a balled-up fist and a hate, a heart full of hate, and we are at odds with the Lord. If I can put it like this: we're born in a feud with the Lord. We're born. You think the Hatfields and McCoys was a big feud. And I could name a few more that you probably have never heard of, but they're feuds nonetheless. But I'm telling you that the greatest feud of all time is the fallen man against holy God. And everybody is born in that condition. Now, religion sort of tries to rock you into a state of apathy that says, Well, I reckon I've always loved the Lord Well, if we'd be honest with ourselves and honest with our heart, we would have to acknowledge that in us is an inborn rebellion that says, I will not have this man rule over me. And yet the Bible says, everyone that loveth is born of God. See, salvation changes everything. It don't just change your destiny as far as uh heaven or hell. It changes who you are right now at the moment. It changes everything. It transforms us. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is, not will be, not going to be, not somehow possibly could be, but he is a new creature. There's a the work of grace in a man's heart makes something out of him he can't be apart from it. So salvation is the beginning of this love. You'll notice in verse 12 and 13: no man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Hereby know we that we dwell in him and he in us, because he hath given us of his spirit. I want you to notice that the spirit's working. is the in working of God's love in your heart. He makes a reference, says, No man's seen God. Well, if you read more in this chapter and in the previous You'll find out that the Bible tells us we can't say we hate a brother we can see and love a God we can't. He said it's impossible. He said it you i you can't love a god you don't see and hate a brother you can. You've got a problem. And I'm just making it very clear this morning that this new birth It brings us to the place of the Spirit of God's working and the Holy Ghost working in you will put his love in your heart. When he's there, when the Spirit of God's there. Now listen, the Spirit of God don't come after salvation. He comes at the moment of salvation. The Bible is very clear that if a man does not have the Spirit of God, he is none of his. We don't get saved, trust Christ, and then say, well Lord, there's something else you got for me. No, he gave you all you're going to get the moment you got born again. And the indwelling Spirit of God is proved By that love of God that is dwelling in our hearts. It's the Spirit's working. In other words, if I'm yielding to Him, you know what's going to come to the forefront? If I'm surrendering to the Holy Spirit and His working, it's going to be God's love coming through my heart for God and others that's going to be the trademark of the spiritual life. Now, John could write about that because John lived it. You remember who John is. Sometimes we've got to go back and study a little bit, and if you'll go back and find out, you'll find out John was one of the sons of thunder. What does that mean? Well, he was one of them rowdy fellows that God saved, and when he got saved, he didn't have a whole lot of love in his heart. In fact, when people opposed him, he said, Lord, let's burn them up. He prayed prayers like, Lord, send lightning down from heaven, smoke them fellas. He was a son of thunder He was one of those individuals that did not brim with love, but he brimmed with vengeance. He wanted vengeance. He said, I want to get even. They rejected us. Let's ruin them. Let's destroy them. But now John's an old man and he's writing us a letter, and in this letter he reminds us, oh listen, the Holy Ghost in you is going to make you love God and others. It's going to be proofed or proven by the fact that that he's there simply because of the overwhelming love. We know traditionally, and this is only tradition or historical That as John grew older and they carried him from place to place, he would say with a very weak voice, My little children, I'm afraid we do not love each other. My little children, I'm afraid we do not love each other. See, John had come to realize that the mark of new cr New Testament Christianity Was not so much the straightness of his doctrine, though we got a Bible. We got no reason to have crooked doctrine. But it was not the mark, the mark of his New Testament Christianity. It was not the straightness of his doctrine. It was not the loudness of his shout. It was not the appearance of holiness in his life. It was the fact that he was consumed with the love of God. And brother, sister, if that's the mark of New Testament Christianity, who bears it? Who bears it? It is the Spirit's working. And then notice in verse 17 and 18, there's a lot said here, but we can't bog down too much. But herein is our love made perfect. That we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in this world. There is no fear in love But perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. He's talking about spiritual maturity. Anytime you see the word perfect in the Bible in regards to man , it always is in the sense of being complete. Something complete. Something mature. He talks in Ephesians, Paul writes to Ephesians that they come to a perfect man. That perfect man. Well there's no perfect men on earth, is there? Some think they are, but the truth is they're not. There's no perfect men. If you if you don't believe it, ask their wives, they'll tell you It's it's alright to laugh in church, all right. He ain't gonna I know it's cloudy and rainy and stuff, but I don't believe you're gonna get struck by lightning for But there's this is we're talking about perfect love. What are we talking about? Spiritual maturity. Spiritual maturity is measured in the amount of God's love that permeates the person's heart. You know the problem is a lot of times we use the wrong measuring stick. We we've got our measuring stick and we say, well Now, and and usually it's something very similar to what we are or do, and we say, well, if a person was spiritually mature, they'd do this Or if a person's spiritual mature, they would act this way. Or if a person is spiritually mature, they'd be, you know what God says? He said, it's perfect love. That's spiritual maturity. It's coming to the place of recognizing the reality of God's love consuming that individual's heart so that they show that forth, not their old flesh. But they show forth the newness of life in the Lord Jesus Christ. The benchmark. Now again, it's this is the Bible. You read it. The benchmark of salvation. And the benchmark of the spirit's working and the benchmark of spiritual maturity is summed up in three little words. We love him. That's the measure. And friend, if that is absent, nothing else is adequate. I don't care what you try to put in the place of that. Well, preacher, I'll just work harder. Or, preacher, I'll make my standards list longer. Or preacher, I'll just try to be everything and do everything that Apostle can do. And I'm here to tell you, that's not the benchmark of any of this. The benchmark is we love him Do you realize that God starts where we need to start and that's on the inside? If we love Him, it'll change everything about us If we love him, it'll radiate from the innermost part of our being. If we love him, it will be reflected in what we do and say and how we live. It'll change us. The problem is we try to do what we do without loving him. And that's a first-class Pharisee in the making. If you do what you do just because you want to please this one or that one or appear to be thus and so, then what you're doing is creating self-righteousness. And you're forgetting that God said, here's where we start. Love me. We love him. Quickly, number two, not only do we see this stating of the obvious, but I want you to see this love is strengthened. By observation. It's strengthened by observation. We love him. Look at this, because. Well, why do we love him? There's got to be a reason. We love him because he first loved us. The Savior's love strengthens ours for him. It's sort of like the moon giving off the reflection of the sun. It doesn't have any light in itself, but it reflects the light of another. And I don't have any love in me for the Lord except for that which he reflects from his love for me. It's his love. We love him because he first loved us. I want you to notice how this love was shown. We're talking about God's love now. And you know how you love him more? You think about how much more he loves you. You think about what he did for you in showing you his love. That's why spiritually the greatest lie the devil tells you is God don't love you. That's why the great battle, if you're saved or lost, the great battle is the devil's trying to convince a whole lot of people that the Lord don't love them. You hear her singing like this morning, He loved me, He loved me, Jesus loved me. I think of that little song we sing in Sunday school. We ought to sing it everywhere. Jesus loved me, this I know. For the Bible tells me so. Listen, the reality that he loves me is very true. God does love me, but the devil don't want you to think he loves you because his love births love in our heart. When we get a hold of the fact that he loves me. He loves me knowing me. He loves me in spite of me. He loves me regardless of me. He loves me. Listen, how do I know that? Because I got it right here in the book. But he showed me that when he went to Calvary. Verse 9 says, in this, this particular thing, in this was the was manifested the love of God towards us. Because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. Calvary shows the love of God. Put it on display, in this. God says if you want to see if I love you, don't check your feelings. How many know your feelings are are wrong sometimes? Or your emotions. And you don't say, well, I'm looking at my circumstance and my circumstances look like, I'm not sure if he loves me. But forget those circumstances. Go back to a hill called Calvary. Hanging there on the cross 2,000 years ago, Jesus Christ, I love you. With words that can never be erased. It was written in pen that can never be removed. He declared his love for time and eternity when he shed his blood to save your soul. Calvary's love. Oh what love it is. He's showing us his love. Then notice this: the starting of that love. I like this, verse 10. Herein is love, not that we loved God. But but he loved us. You see where it all started? He loved us. It's his love. I didn't love him. Until I got saved, I didn't love God. Oh, I might have loved the concept of God or the idea of God, or I might have loved the figment of my imagination that I thought was God, but I didn't love God. He loved me though. He loved me in my sin. He loved me as a lost sinner. He loved me though I'd rejected him year after year. He loved me though I opposed him. He loved me uh though I was a hypocrite and pretended to be saved. He loved me in spite of me. Friend, now that's love. Not that we love God. I love to sing songs like, Oh, how I love Jesus, but I'd rather sing songs like, Oh, how Jesus loves me. Because my little love is puny in comparison to the great love of God. Oh, my friend, listen. It started with him. It ends with him. It's all about him. It's his love, not our love that's important. And if you're saved here this morning, do you know what you're resting in? Not in your feeble grip of God, but in God's great, mighty grip of you. It's not me hanging on to Him. That little song needs some tuning up because it says, If I love him when I die, listen to me Heaven's not secured by my love for him. Heaven is secured by his love for me. He loves me. He loves me. I I changed that song when we used to sing it quite a bit and say, If I'm born again when I die. That's all that matters. If I'm born again when I die. Not if I love him. Look, brother, sister, you and I may we live in a fallen world with a fallen body. And these are that we may get some disease or whatever and lose our minds and hate everything that moves or lives or breathes, and we may not have any capacity physically, mentally, to be able to love God But I'll tell you what, if if we're his, here's what my Bible says, He knows them. He's marked them. He's marked them. I'm here to tell you something. You're secure in his great grip of grace. Because it's not about your reciprocating this love, it's about the reality of his great love that can never, ever change We love him. We love him. Oh, we love him because he first loved us. And then notice the sending here that's mentioned in verse 14. And we have seen and do testify. That the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. He sent the Son. He was God's love gift to this earth. Not long ago we celebrated the birth of Christ. Why did he come? Because he loves you. Why was he born in Bethlehem? Because he loves you. Why did he live 33 and a half years on this old earth? Because he loves you. He loves you. The greatest truth that'll ever grip your heart is this: that he loves you. I believe that. You get a hold of the fact, or it gets a hold of you that he loves you. I know we got a religious notion of it, but we need a real understanding. He does love me. And he sent his son to be the savior of the world. You know what that tells me? He loves the world. I don't have to have John 3. 16 to know that. I know it right here in 1 John 4. 14. He sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. That tells me he loves the whole world. You'll never look a man in the eye, or a woman in the eye, or a boy, or a girl in the eye, for whom Jesus did not die. You'll never see a soul, you'll never look at a person that Jesus don't love. I don't care what they've done, who they are, where they're at, what mess they're in. I've got good news for you. He loved the world. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Now that's love. It's love big enough to embrace the whole world. Every lost man, every lost boy, girl, it don't matter how rebellious they've been, how wicked they've been, how vile they've been, He still loves them and paid the sin debt for them and will save whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord. The greatest display of love ever seen was Calvary. Now listen, we can never make, we can never make too much out of God's love. We can make, you know, let me just say it. We can we can make too much out of our love for him Better be careful about getting up and crowing like a little rooster and saying, Oh, I want everybody to know how much I love the Lord. Few people did that in the Bible, and what a mess they turned out. Peter said, Lord, if every man denies you, I never will. I'll die for you. And I don't doubt the sincerity of it, but he should have kept it to himself. Because somewhere in the background you see the devil saying, Let's see about that, big boy. And it wasn't long till he's over here cussing by the fire, warming his hands. I don't know who he is. I I couldn't tell you who he is. And he denied the Lord. I'm just saying it we can make we can make too much of our love. Be careful about this. If you love the Lord, you don't have to advertise it. You ever notice when people people are in love? I've told you about my my friend up in Canada. He his the Lord took his wife home to heaven. He got he met another lady. And before he ever brought her to church, I knew something was going on with him. I mean he was he he he was an older man but he had a spring in his step and he smiled and I thought wonder what's wrong with Gary honestly my first thought was wonder what kind of medicine he's on I figured maybe the doctor would give him something, make him happy. And then one Sunday night he came in and I saw I said, Dad's what's wrong with him? I see what's wrong with him. He's acting like a teenager again. You know why he's in love? He didn't have to tell in fact he wouldn't tell nobody for a long time. He didn't have to wear a t-shirt that says, I'm in love. It was written all over his face. Listen to me, please. If you love Jesus Christ, you don't have to wear a t-shirt, a bracelet, carry a banner, shout with the top of your lungs. You just simply display it because the reality cannot be escaped You can't escape that. Notice with me the, again, we can never make too much out of his love. Yes, we can make too much of our love for him, but you never make too much out of his love for us. That's why we sing about it every chance we get That's why we preach about it. That's why we thank God for it when we pray. That's why we try to focus on the reality that Jesus Christ loved us and gave himself for us. That's the message that needs to be declared. You can't make that too big. You can't exaggerate that story. You can't just exhaust it or describe it too much. Listen, friend, why? Because we love him because he first loved us. It strengthens, it strengthens our love for him. Now, let me say this in closing. I want you to see the scriptural order here. Found in verse nineteen. Just one word first. First. We love him because he first, he first Love does. Love begins and ends with the Lord. Notice that it stems from his person. You'll see it, and I've said it already. Verse 7 and 8: God is love. This old world wouldn't know love were it not for God. Wouldn't know a thing about it. Wouldn't have a clue what love is. In fact, most of the world today don't have an inkling of what love is because they don't know God. But but God is love. It stems, it comes from his person. Do you know everything God does, he does in love? Everything God does, he does it in his great love. His wisdom is in love. His actions are in love. His judgments are in love. Listen, his love is demonstrated again and again. It stems from his person. He's the source. Then it's shown in propitiation. Do you see that in verse 10? Herein is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Jesus as the divine substitute satisfied God's righteous demands when he died on Calvary's hill. Securing forgiveness by himself by the shedding of his blood, he secured forgiveness of sins and eternal life The act of propitiation, and by the way, not only is it an act, but propitiation is a person. Propitiation is more than just an act. You say, what happened? He became propitious, if you will, on the cross where he shed his blood and gave his life. But Jesus Christ became the propitiation. He himself is the propitiation. I believe that word's very similar to that mercy seat. And when you look at that mercy seat, that mercy seat stood between the sinner and the law, because in that ark was the law, and on that mercy seat was the blood. And God looking down upon man had to see the blood before he saw the law. And God looking upon you and I who are saved doesn't see us in our sin. He sees us under the blood of Christ. And it is the blood of Jesus Christ that propitiates for our sin. And when God sees that, He's satisfied. Don't think for a minute, just because you live right, you're satisfying God's demands. Do you understand that all your righteousnesses are as filthy rags? That every good you could ever do and all the good you all that we all could do If we put it in one big heap pile would be nothing but stinking, dirty, filthy rags in the eyes of the Lord. It's never enough. It cannot be enough. God's so much holier and so much higher than us But he's not looking up for that. He's not looking upon that. He's looking through the blood of his darling son. He's looking at the perfection of Jesus Christ. Placed upon his people who are believing people. And oh dear friend, what a work God did when he demonstrated the propitiation and provided for us forgiveness of sin. John Gill said it's expressive of the great love of Christ to his people, that he would make Jesus the propitiation for our sins. Friend, listen, can you imagine? What if the Lord were to demand of us something payable to get righteousness? We'd be in trouble. You could journey the world over, circle the globe in some sort of spiritual pursuit, and never, ever, ever, ever achieve righteousness. Whether you suffered thirst or hunger or some sort, I believe it was Luther who was crawling up those stairs. And as he crawled up those stairs, he remembered those words: the just shall live by faith. He's crawling on bloody sore knees. He's crawling and somehow or another trying to appease God by all the pain in his body. He's thinking if I suffer enough, if I'm sorry enough, if I'm broken enough, if somehow or another that's going to satisfy. But somewhere along that journey, the Holy Ghost said, let me tell you something. Let me tell you that none of that'll do. That none of that'll save you. That none of that can get you in. Now look, we may not crawl stairs, but I'll tell you what we do. We repeat meaningless prayers. We say words over and over again. We say things like, Oh, I've got to pray a sinner's prayer. Listen, my friend, it's not the praying of prayer that saves, it's the God who hears that saves. It's not the uttering of special words. I mean, it's not the abrac we've we've got the abracadabra of the spiritual life And we say, Well if I say these words and somehow we've memorialized them on tracks and other places and we say now I if I'll say it just right and say it enough times and say it with enough meaning And I'm telling you, dear friend, all you're doing is another work, a Baptist work, or whatever kind of work you want to call it. You're just trying to get yourself to heaven on your effort. But when you come like a broken heart, lost, hopeless sinner, and lay yourself lost and undone and and without hope and God at his feet And say, Lord, I this is what I am. I'm hell-bound, hell-deserving, and only you can save me, and I'm going to trust you to do it. At that moment of time, He'll save you right in that spot. He'll change your life, make a new creature out of you. And all that you could never do, he does in a moment of time through Jesus Christ. My goodness. That ought to make a dead old Presbyterian say, Amen, or grunt, or something. The reality. I'm not saved by the things I've done or do. No. Propitiation is through Jesus Christ. He's the propitiation for our sins. And not for our sins only, John had already told us, but for the sins of the whole world. What a savior. Then we see this finally, the saving power in verse 16. And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. We believed it. Hey, do you believe it? I mean, do you believe it to the staking of your eternity on it? Do you believe it to the to the to the resting of your soul and forever? We have known, we've known and believed, we believe the love of God. Someone wrote these words, what won my heart to God was not the threatenings of the law. But love on Calvary's brow displayed. The wounded Savior bearing my sin, his dying form beneath the load. This Calvary's love won my soul. And so I sing. Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. We've known and believed. We've believed. I mean, we're not talking about mental ascent. We're talking about the commitment of the whole. Lord, I believe. If I've got a hope, if I've got hope at all, it's in the love of God in Jesus Christ. If there's forgiveness of sin, it's through the love of God and Jesus Christ. If there's mercy to be had, is there mercy for me? Some may say, you may be listening and saying, preacher, is there mercy for me? Is there any kind of mercy for me? Hear the man Jesus dying on the cross. And hear the wicked sinner, the thief dying by his side. Hear him say, Lord, remember me. He couldn't even utter the words, have mercy. He just said, Lord, remember me. And our Lord so lovingly said, today, shalt thou be with me in paradise. Listen, dear friend, there is mercy to be had. There is mercy for you. There is forgiveness of sin. You can find it at the feet of the Lord Jesus. Don't come a dressed-up sinner. Come a broken, lost, helpless one. Don't come trying to fix up with your religiosity. Throw all that junk away. Don't come trying to impress God because you can't do it Just come broken, lost, hopeless, crying out, God, have mercy. And listen, there's a God in heaven who, through his love and demonstration on the cross, will say to you, There's mercy for you. There's mercy for you. Whether you bow the knee or sit in a pew or laying in a hospital bed or cry out driving down the road, there's mercy for you. There's mercy for you. There's mercy to be had in Jesus Christ. Flee to him. Flee to him. You ever get caught out in a storm I was thinking the other night one day on the farm we were cutting hay and you could see coming up over the mountain this big dark cloud. And uh I was running the tether kicking up the hay and boss was cutting and he got my attention he said I shook my head I said I see it and then he pointed back here and there was an old barn And it wasn't much of a thing to look at, but I knew this to keep the rain off of you. I also knew this, it'd keep you get from getting hit by lightning. We're sitting on the hilltop now, we're cutting hay on a hilltop, and the highest thing on that hill is the big head sticking off top of that tractor And that's like riding around saying, hit me, you know? That's what it felt like. Every swap I made, I thought, man, I hope it don't lighten it now, because it's going to smack me. And when boss gave the signal, he said, I shut that tractor down and run like a rabbit. Amen. Just barely, just barely got under that thing when the heavens opened up. And man, I'll tell you talk about a rain. But I was dry because I got under the refuge. I got in out of the storm. I'm going to tell you what, center, there's a far greater storm coming than a little old thunderstorm. There's a storm coming where my friend your soul will quake and shudder, and the reality of hearing him say, Depart from me, I never knew you, is going to reverberate in your ears for all of eternity. But know this, while you're alive, you've got an opportunity. There's a refuge. It may not be much to look at, but run to it. Run to the Lord Jesus Christ. Run to the refuge. Run to Him. There's mercy to be had. And every person found in Him finds refuge from the storm. Run to him. I wouldn't wait another minute. I'd cry out to him. Away with this formality. Away with all these foolish haltings. Say, God help me, save me. I need you now. A dying man don't have time to play games. And lost sinners, lost sinners, don't have time to fool around. Get right with God while you can. And be saved. Listen, dear brother, sister, know this. Do you believe the love of God? I I believe there's folks that believe God loves them enough to die for them, save them, but I don't know that they that they really believe he loves them enough to walk with them every day. Or loves them enough to understand that we're accepted. Ephesians says we're accepted in the beloved. We're accepted. And I still have to rack try to get my head around that and understand the reality that he accepts me in Christ. He don't accept me because I'm a preacher. He don't accept me because I read my Bible every day or pray or Or do all the other things we like to say. Well, God must be pleased with me because I acted right. You know there's two kind of Christians sitting here this morning. There's folks sitting here thinking they're pretty good folk because they did everything they're supposed to this week and had a pretty good week. And they're sitting here thinking, well, he must be really proud of me. Can I say to you, he's not impressed. I'm not saying you shouldn't live for the Lord. Don't misunderstand me. But you're not accepted by what you do. If you were, righteousness would come by the works of the law. But you're accepted in Him, in the beloved. There's others sitting here saying, Man, I've had a horrible week. I didn't even really feel like coming to church because I feel so low down and dirty and felt like I failed the Lord. And listen, I've got news for you. If we confess our sin, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sin, to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. There's blood that'll put that sin away. Get your heart right with God. Get back where you're supposed to be and stay close to Him. But know this, we have known and believed. The love of God. Do you believe it? Do you believe it enough to just get right with him, accept what his word says, and get up and go on? Do you believe it enough to say, God, by your grace, I'm not going to trust in one shred of my own righteousness. I'm going to trust in you and you alone. See, if we're growing like we should be, we're growing more dependent on the Lord. A lot of you have been saved a while. And when you first get saved, why you you've got such a transformed new life in you You think, man, I can I I could like the old preacher used to say, charge hell with a water pistol. But then you're saved a while and you realize something. Without him, I can do nothing. Without him, you've falled enough times, you go through enough valleys, you go through enough briar patches, you go through enough struggle, you realize, God, you've got to help me. And you know how we grow? We grow not being getting big and strong and walking in our own power, but we grow by leaning more and more and more and more. On the Lord. Lord, I need your help. What do you need the Lord to do in your life today? Would you stand with me, please? Let's let God help us. If you're lost, you can be saved today. Cry out to the Lord Jesus. If you're saved and need to get right with God, just get right with the Lord. Do business with him. Listen to him. Dear Christian, maybe you just need to find a place and say, God, help me to love you more. Help me to love you more. Loving him is the issue. I'll say this as they're coming. Remember this, Peter didn't get a lecture on cussing after the resurrection. He got a question. You love me? Because the problem was not with Peter's tongue and words. The problem was he didn't love God enough. And whatever the problem is in your life, you know the real the real issue is? You don't love him like you should. Let's ask the Lord to help us to love him more.