Lord, for what you do, we'll thank you and praise you, for we ask it all in Jesus' name and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. I don't know if you've ever paid attention in reading 1 John. But in this little letter, everything is very clear. It's either right or wrong. It's either righteous or unrighteous. You're either saved or lost. He makes things so plain. There's no gray area. Vance Habner used to talk about the color. It was a popular color, I guess, in his day, and they called it Parsons Gray. It was a mixture of black and white, and it sort of just blended right good together. And he said, that's the way a lot of our thinking is and our preaching. It's just Parsons Gray. But when you read this little letter of 1 John, you don't find any Parsons gray. You find just plain right and wrong. He's made some very bold statements here about loving your brother and the man that hates his brother, about him not having neither the love of God or the life of God in him. But I want you to consider what's said here as we think about this thing of love in action. I want you to notice three things that are found here in the text. Number one I want you to see the message. It's in verse number 11, and the words right there. This is the message. I don't know if you write in your Bible, but If you do, it might be wise to underline or highlight or score that word somehow so that that'll stand out to you, because there is a message that is delivered here, and we're going to look at that And then in verse number 14, I want you to see the mark. God 's people are marked. Need to know tonight that when God saves somebody, he puts his mark on them. And they're they're his and it's known. They're marked. Another quote of Vance Abner's he used to say you could take a lost man and saved man, put them in a paper bag, shake them up and dump them out, and you couldn't tell one from the other. Well that may be the state of Christianity, but that's not the state of Scripture. God puts a mark. He said, Those are mine. Those are mine. There's a mark. I'm going to look at that mark. And then it gets practical, verse 16 to 18, and we're going to look at the manifestation. Here's the action part Here's what happened when that message is received and that mark has been placed on the individual. There's going to be certain actions that take place in their lives that prove they are his. So go back with me, please, to verse eleven. For this is the message that you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. Here's the message. Now, who is John getting this message from? You know, a message is only as good as the one from whom it comes. There's a lot of messages that are given that have no meaning because of their source. You ever hear this statement? Consider the source. And when you consider the source, sometimes you can just reject the message. You can say that message don't mean anything because of where it comes from. Well John says this. John says, here is a message. And this message is this. Love one another. John, where did you get your message? The doctrine that is being taught here, and by the way, God underpins every action with doctrine Have you noticed that? Everything God tells me to do and demands of me to live is built on some doctrine I'm supposed to believe. Now listen, doctrine dictates our behavior. What you believe you're going to behave, I mean if you really believe it. When you believe a certain thing, you act in a certain way. Your beliefs are what guides you and instruct your conduct. And so John gives us the doctrine. The doctrine is love one another. Love one another. But where did he get his doctrine from? Where did he get his message? Would you go back to John's Gospel, John chapter number 13? And I want you to see something that John heard in person. John chapter number 13, John was there when this was said. John was in the presence of our Lord when he spoke these words. John chapter 13, and let's just start reading in verse 31. John chapter 13 and verse 31 says, Therefore, when he was gone out, talking about Judas Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God be glorified in him, God shall also glorify him in himself. And he shall straightway glorify him. Little children, yet a little while I'm with you, ye shall seek me And as I said unto the Jews, whither I go ye cannot come, so now I say to you, A new commandment I give unto you. That ye love one another as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. Look at verse 35. By this Shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have loved one to another? When the Lord Jesus delivered this message , He delivered a message that would be life-changing for these men. He would let these men know that here is a doctrine that an understanding, a teaching that you need to get a hold of. I'm giving you a commandment. That's just another way of saying a message in a sense. Although a commandment bears a lot heavier weight. But he's saying, I'm giving you a message. I'm giving you a commandment. Love one another. Go back to 1 John 3, and I want to tie it all together to verse 23. And in verse 23 of that same chapter, look what he says. And this is his commandment. That we should believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another as he gave us commandment. That's as clear as can be, isn't it? You know what he said? You believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And by the way, that's where all of this begins. You know, a lot of times we try to love one another without knowing him who loved us first. And you can't do it. You can't love one another except you be born again. And he makes it very clear here that the commandment is believe on the Lord Jesus Believe on the Lord Jesus, and then love one another. And in that order. See, the gospel message still changing changes a man's heart. Remember that old song, and it's pretty shallow in some ways, but it says, give me that old-time religion. And and isn't there a phrase in that says, Makes me love everybody? I don't remember all of it, but I remember that. It makes me love everybody. Now don't get mad at me if you like that song for what I said. Just Carry on, you know. I like things you like, you like things I don't, just be be be okay. But but he says it makes me love everybody, and there's truth in that Because a born-again man loves other born-again people. It's a work of God. God does this. Wonderful work in a person's heart. And when you get saved by the grace of God, He deposits that love that He has for you in your heart for others. Oh John says, here's our message. You need to hear it. Here's the message. This is the message from the very throne of heaven. It comes from the Lord. And by the way, you say, what does this thing about Cain and Abel have to do with the message? Everything. You notice He says here in verse number 12, not as Cain who was of that wicked one and slew his brother. You know what the Lord's saying? I'm not talking about natural affection. Natural affection fails. He said, I don't look, here's a here's a here's two brothers who had some reasonable Perhaps a mount of brotherly love. How many of you have a brother? Okay How many of you love your brother, but there have been moments in time you'd like to wring his neck? Amen. Look, maybe I should ask this way. How many of you have a brother that would like to wring your neck? Sometimes. All right, we've all been there, haven't we? Well, here's what the Bible says. The message is not natural affection Look how here's the greatest failings of natural affection. Here is what natural affection can do. It can only take you so far. Cain was of that wicked one. Abel was that righteous one. And the Bible says that he slew his brother because his own works were evil and his brothers were righteous. Listen, friend, that's as far as natural affection can take you. It can't deliver you from that that's just common, the envy, jealousy. and all of that that's in the heart of man. But there is a supernatural love that can. There's a love that's greater than natural affection and a love that defies the boundaries that even natural affection will lay down and prohibit you from going beyond. He says, not like Cain. I'm not talking about that kind of love. That sort of natural affection fails miserably every time falls short. And the reason is, is because it's both selfish and sinful at its very heart. So he gave us a message. That's the doctrine portion of the teaching. We are to love one another. Because we've been born again by the Lord Jesus Christ. And then look at verse 14, and I want you to see the mark. Here's what he says, we know. And by the way, you ought to look in 1 John and highlight every we know. There's several of them. We know, we know, we know, what is it we know? We know that we pass from death unto life. Why? Because we love the brethren. We know that. What is that? That's assurance. Assurance, had a brother used to say. Insurance. It's insurance. He'd preach it. He'd say, it's insurance. Well, I knew what he was getting at, but insurance or assurance, it's both the same in the sense that we know something because of it. What do we know? We know that we're saved. By the way, look over here real quick. 1 John 5. 13. I hope you've been shown this. I know you have. But let me remind you of it. In 1 John 5. 13, the Bible says, these things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God. That ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that you may believe on the name of the Son of God. Well, preacher, how do I get sure of my salvation? I'll tell you how. These things that are written. The blood makes me safe. It's the Bible that makes me sure. Oftentimes we run around, and I'm telling you from experience, I sought assurance in a lot of places. I struggled with that as a young man. I thought I had to have this experience and that experience, this feeling, that feeling, and none of those things I heard had ever really happened to me. And so I thought maybe I'm not saved. Boy, I struggled until a dear man of God took my Bible and opened it up and said, read 1 John 5. 13. And I read 1 John 5. 13. Now he said, What's written? I said, I don't know. He said, that's what you've got to find out. And he said, take that first letter of John and highlight every we know. Every time the Bible gives you a reason to be sure. That's what it is. A reason to be sure. Now listen to me. If you love the brethren, that's a reason to be sure. If you've got a supernatural love put in your heart by the living Lord for the people who are saved, brothers and sisters in the Lord Then you can rest assured, you can look at that and say, that's a reason to be sure I pass from death unto life. Now are you sure? People say, well, I'm sure because I'll tell you, I have the most amazing feeling come over me. Well I was a boy, some fellas said, you're too chicken to put your tongue on an electric fence. And, you know, when you're young, you're not very intelligent. And if you're a male young child, all it takes is a dare. And I thought, I can't be a chicken for the rest of my life. I've got to show these boys I'll put my tongue on electric fence. Well I'm going to tell you something. I don't know what he had that fence hooked up to It very well could have been wired right into his his electrical outlet because that thing buzzed and blew me off of it and I had a feeling mark go all over me And I had feelings for several days after that, from that that experience. And now some of you are sitting there, now we know what's wrong with Pastor. He had some brain cells fried. Well, be that as it may, your feelings are fickle. So the most shallow part of your being. You can feel one way today and another tomorrow. You can feel you can feel sure right now and 30 minutes later you can feel unsure, just as unsure as you felt sure. But I'll tell you what, don't change. It is written. These things have I written unto you that you may know. You can know that you have eternal life. And be sure of it, and one of those things. That marks us with assurance is that we love the brethren. Heard someone say one time, a person walked in the church. And I just happened to be in vicinity to hear it, not here, please, not here. But I heard them say, oh, I hate her. And it kind of caught my attention. They didn't say it to me. They were saying it just as an expression, perhaps a thought spoken too loudly. And I thought about that. Here's a Christian, a professing Christian, who hates another Christian. Something's wrong. Something's wrong. Something's wrong, brother, sister. When we can say we hate, listen, he says whosoever hateth this brother is a murderer. I didn't say that. John said that John's just laying it out like it is, and he's making the message plain, and he says, God's people are marked. What are we marked with? We're marked with a love for the brethren. Look at it. We know. We know that we pass from death unto life. Because we love the brethren. You know, you couldn't have taken more unlikely men and put them together than the disciples of the Lord. You couldn't take a bunch of people more different than the ones he called to follow him. And yet it was those men with all their differences and all their unique personalities that the Lord used to lay the foundation. He was the foundation, the chief cornerstone. But upon those those men he would use them to establish the local church. And one thing that marked them as they began to follow the Lord is their love for one another. As they grew in the Lord, they loved each other more. We need to see that it is a mark God puts on all of his people. He differentiates us from the lost world. Can I say something that I see as sad? This lost world can find more love, and I use that word loosely. But this lost world can find love among its own ranks sometimes more than God's people can in their own church. And that's an indictment on us. That's a heavenly indictment on our person. Because we're to love each other. We're to love each other. Now, have you ever been like me? Lord, I have a hard time liking them. Help me love them. Can we just be honest? Huh? How many times have you prayed, Lord, I'm really struggling to like them? Help me to love them. And can't the Lord do that? Does He not do that? Put that love in our hearts for those that it even at times can be difficult to like That's the supernatural work of the Lord. That's the mark of God's little children. God says, this is that, and by the way, to use the words of the Lord Jesus spoke back in John 13, he said, by this. This is this is how men will know your mind This is what'll set you apart. You know had man wrote that, had man wrote that, it wouldn't have been love for each other. If men had wrote that, you know what they said? If it by this shall all men know if you're my disciple, if you and and then they would have put their own requirement. If you walk like me, talk like me, look like me, I'll tell you what we've done in our churches, and it it really bothers me actually. We've made our churches cookie-cutter corporations. Where we're just churning out little reproductions of one another. God deliver us from that. When God saved Peter and called Peter, he was still Peter in so many of his ways and and yet he was made a new creature in Christ Jesus. He didn't take his uniqueness away. He didn't take his personality away. He sanctified everything there was about him. God deliver us from this thing of putting people in molds. Saying, you know, you gotta conform. Be just like me. What a poor, what a poor work to engage in You know who all we all want should want to be like around here? The Lord Jesus. He's the measuring stick. He's the one by whom we look at. By the way, if it's like if it's Jesus that we want to be like, we'll always need to be growing and changing and maturing because nobody gets there on this side of eternity. And so he said, This is how men will know. This is how men will know. This is how they'll look at you and say, he's a Christian. They'll look at you and say, he's a follower of Jesus. They'll look at you and say, this person knows, and they may not even know the language. They may not even know what it is, but here's what they will know, you're different. You're different. They'll know you're different. Why? Because you love each other. Can I just insert something practical for a minute? Hard for them to see that when we're gossiping about those people we go to church with. It's real hard for lost people to see that you love the Lord when you tell them how low down rotten no good those people are you go to church with. It's hard to do. It's hard to see a difference in a person who spends their time tearing down and and tearing apart God's little children. I'm just trying to say tonight that there's a mark God's put on his people. There's a mark that God's put on his people. And brother and sister, you either bear the mark or you don't. By this shall all men know that you are my disciples if you have love one toward another. If you are demonstrating that supernatural love, that doesn't mean you don't get aggravated and Frustrated or deal with the flesh or anything like that. It just means there's a supernatural capacity within you given from God above to love those that name the name of Jesus Christ. And I'm going to tell you something. The church of this age, 2024, has very little love shown among its people. Let's just be honest. If you were to walk out these doors and find somebody who's unchurched and maybe unsaved, and say, When you think of a Christian What's the first thing that comes to mind? I almost promise you it won't be love. Jesus said it should be. But for many, you say whose fault? Can I say this very graciously as I need to hear it too? Go look in the mirror And say, Lord, am I showing that love? Do I demonstrate it? Do I demonstrate the fact that I love as you have commanded me to love? It's a mark. I don't think we'll ever reach a lost world until we love each other the way the Lord has told us to Yeah, preacher, listen, I don't need to know. Here's what I do know: Jesus said, by this, by this shall all men know. That you are my disciples. I'm reading something that was penned some 200 years ago, and the man's writing about other men in the ministry. And he's talking about this preacher, and he's talking about that preacher, and talking about another preacher, and here's what I noticed. He loved all of them If they preached the Bible, he loved them. He was what they called a dissenter. They were independents. They dissented from the Episcopalian Church and the rule of the Church of England, and they said, you know, you're not going to sustain us, and we're not going to take dictate from you. They were often called nonconformists, and they were individuals much with the spirit that an independent Baptist would have. That we bow to King Jesus and only to King Jesus. And that the Word of God is our God and rule for faith and practice. And yet he wrote about some men. And I I thought, how could he say something nice about them? And and he wrote about another man. And and he he wrote, he said, I'm often accused of being Liberal in love. He said, if that be the case, so be it. I know that curls the hair of some of these fellas that can find wrong with everybody, even Jesus, probably. But I'm here to tell you there's something real about God's love working in a person's heart so that they love like Jesus loved. I'm not saying lay down your doctrine or your Bibles. If you heard that, you're looking for the wrong thing. But I am saying that this is a mark that God sets and seals his people with. By this. You remember when that those disciples found that crowd and they were doing things and they were doing things in Jesus' name, but they weren't part of the crowd, and and the disciples said, We rebuked them, Lord. We told them you better stop it right now. And the Lord said, if they're not against me, they're with me. Better find out where a man stands with the person of Jesus Christ before you go censoring his doings Here's what he said, you're going to be marked, you're going to be marked with the love one for by this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one for another. Now quickly, and here's really the message. I'm going to have to hurry. Notice the manifestation. Look in verse 16. Hereby Perceive we the love of God. Because He laid down His life for us, we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. Now here's the principle. Jesus demonstrated self-sacrifice and love on the cross of Calvary. He left the comfort of heaven for the cruelty of the cross. He laid down his life. Do you realize how the Lord limited himself? In taking a body, and the Lord limited himself by going to the cross He did not cease to be God, but there were limitations that he invited into his life for you. He laid down his life for you. He gave up a sacrifice and made a sacrifice. Of self out of love for you and I. And here's the principle. He says, go and do the same thing. That's very like unlikely he's going to ask any of you to die for somebody else. But he does ask us continually to self-sacrifice and to lay down our life. It's very unlikely that any of us will be put in the position of saying, I love you so much I'm going to die for you, and then lay down our lives. But listen to me, every single day, there are times we leave our comforts and we leave our conveniences and we leave all of those things so that we can show the love of God in Jesus Christ for someone else. We have a problem in this country in our homes And marriages in the church fall apart nearly as quickly as those outside. And it seems to be a Christian doesn't make a difference in the home. And I'll tell you what the problem is. We are self-absorbed individuals and don't love like this. This kind of love says, you first, not me. This kind of love says that that I'm gonna lay down my convenience. I'm gonna lay down my rights. I'm gonna lay down what I may demand. I'm gonna lay down self and I'm gonna sacrifice for the good of another A preacher friend of mine was going to preach in Tennessee a few weeks ago. Remember when it was so cold? And it was real cold down there too. And he said he had a flat tire. And he had trouble getting the spare out from under there. You know they put him up in there. I don't know who engineers that, but They make it near impossible to get to them. He couldn't get the thing loose. He never had to use it before. He worked for nearly two hours to get that tire changed Now listen, he was on a busy highway, Interstate 40. He was on the westbound side, on the side of the road, two hours. Cold. It was in the teens that day. And he said hundreds of people drove by. Nobody stopped. Nobody stopped. Now I know. People say, well, but preacher, don't you know the liability that's involved? You know what love says? Love says liability, I'll worry about you later. Amen Well, I I'm afraid I I don't want to get involved. How is it that a woman can get raped in New York City on the street in broad daylight and people walk by and take pictures? There was a day there were men that had guts enough and were men enough that they would have stopped such a thing. What's happened to us? Have we got so insulated in our little comfortable worlds that we won't pull over on the side of the road? Here is a man, and and and the preacher was in his Is uh, well , late seventies. So I mean, you dec you decide whether that's old or not. I'm I'm about through determining that sort of thing. Everything on this side of 50 is just looking a little bit better, in my opinion, as it used to. But I mean he's he's not a spring chicken. He's not a twenty-year-old boy or man And and and they're dry and he's he's got his dress clothes on and he's he's trying to get to a meeting to preach. Here's what he said. He said people that he went to preach to passed him on the interstate. You know what's wrong? This principle is not observed in our lives anymore. Who lays down their life for another? See, in the Laodicean age, it seems to me there's an uh an enamoration with self. And with being comfortable and being satisfied. But where are the men and women who will give of themselves? By the way, uh listen to me, when that church, that church in the book of Acts We're confronted with things of this nature. We're confronted with this thing of sacrificing their selves and the things that they had for others. They willingly laid down their lives. They were in that purity. And by let me just get quickly to this. Look at the practical side of this, verse 17. Whoso hath this world's good? And seeeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him? The answer is, it does not That's what he's saying. He's emphasizing from the negative that it does not dwell in a man who can close those valves or bowels of compassion and say Forget about you, I'll go my way. Acts chapter 2, do you remember what they did? Some call this Christian communism, and I say that's cuckoo. Because communism demands everyone on a certain level. Love looks for opportunity to serve. And here in Acts chapter number 2, they sold their goods and parted them as every man had need. Do you know what that was? That was laying down self. That was recognizing that was the purity and the infancy of this early church as she blossomed and and and was so so pure and so right with God that they loved each other so much that that one who had would say, Hey, that that that brother sister don't many of them were being persecuted Many wives were being left as widows. There were real needs existing in that body. And people said, I'll sell my land or I'll sell my home or I'll take my goods and I'll help out in this situation. You know what that was? That was love in action. That was the Lord Jesus living his life through people who had been radically changed by the grace of God. And it showed in their everyday lives as they laid down their lives for one another. Ananias and Sapphira wanted to get in on it, didn't they? But not out of love They went out of pride. Their pride said, Boy, that look I I imagine they lay there one night and said, you know, it'd look good if we sold this land and We're going to get more out of it than what we'll tell. We'll take it to the church and say we give everything away. But we'll have this little nest egg. Isn't that selfish? They say, we'll have this little nest. And when Peter dealt with them and the Holy Ghost did after, Peter said, Hey, it was yours. You didn't have to do that. The early church didn't legislate. The apostles didn't say, if you own property, you gotta sell it and redistribute it. No, you know what motivated them? Love. This kind of love, this love that said, hey, I care about my fellow man so much so that I'll inconvenience myself and give out of myself to help somebody else. Church, what I'm trying to say tonight is that we need a revival of this kind of love. This mark is manifested in this practical way. You'll notice they had the ability And the awareness, but look at their audacity. They shut up their bowels of compassion. They had the ability. God don't expect you to do what you can't do. You don't have the ability. Hey, one of you ladies driving home, you see somebody broke down, and and you you you've never turned a A tire wrench or anything like that. You've never changed the tire. You don't have the ability. It'd be foolish for you to pull over and say, hey, I'll change your tire. I'm not being critical, I'm just saying just think with me. If you don't have the ability, God don't expect you to do what you cannot do, but if you can do something, if you have the ability, then my friend, you are accountable to God to act on that ability. Not only did they have the ability, but they had the awareness. Seeeth his brother. He saw it. He was aware of something. And boy, when you are are made aware of something, then you've got a you've then you 've got double accountability. If you have the ability and the awareness, now you've got to do something. You've got to do something. And what did he do? He shut up his vows of compassion. Said it's not my business. Just let it be. Years ago we had a lady come in our church and she was causing trouble. And she was using bad language and I don't know what was wrong with her mentally or spiritually, but And she was just just making a scene. And I said, Well, one of you men escort her out. And not one man moved. So I thought, well, I'll call one by name that I think will. And I said, brother, why don't you uh help her out of this building? Because we can't continue this meeting with her doing what she's doing And he he he started to get up and his wife said, but what about the liability? Hold on a minute See, our mindset is, I don't want to get my hands dirty. Church, please hear me. You and I need to understand that there is a rule that rises above the rule of men. And it's the law of the Lord. It's this law of love. This law that says, hey, lay down your life. And be willing. Boy, I'll tell you, it happened. It happened there for a time frequently. I don't know why we attract somebody said the gospel light attracts strange bugs And buddy, our light sure attracted some strange bugs. But God saved some young fellas, and these young fellas had love for the Lord and their church. And that we had another one coming. This time she's right where Harvey is. And boy, she was worse, man. She was up trying to get in my face in the pulpit, trying to get over here at the piano. And all I did, I said, fellas And those two young fellows, man, they jumped up like kangaroos and helped her to the door in a gracious way, but in a way that she knew, don't come around here doing that sort of stuff. What I'm trying to say is, folks, listen, if you're a Christian, there's a love in your heart that ought to move you to action. And you see a need. You see a need. Someone said that a need seen is an assignment given. When you see a need, when you see a situation , don't run and tell somebody else about it if you have the ability to do something about it. If you have the capabilities to do something about it, meet the need. And it may inconvenience you and it may cause you to have to make a sacrifice. But isn't that what love does? Now here's the conclusion. Look at verse 18. My little children. You know when I read that and I read over there in John 13, you know where John got that from? John called the believers my little children because Jesus did. It's awful good to adopt his language. My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue. Just don't say it. Just don't say it. Now I know in some circles, it seems like the higher north you go, the less you hear it. People say, I love you. Now down south everywhere you go, if you go to church, I love you, brother. I love you. Now they might have a dagger about to put through your heart, but they love you. He said, don't love in word or tongue. Just don't say it. That's the easiest word you can say. There's some young people, a few young people in our meeting tonight, and one of these days you're going to meet someone and you're going to say, I love you. And you're going to get so serious about it, you're going to say, I love you, followed by, I do. That's the easiest thing you'll ever say. You know what you'll do? You'll spend a lifetime proving it. Living it out every day. Good days, bad days, hard days, challenging days. You'll live it out. Because that's what love does. My little children, let us not work in word, neither in tongue, but watch this, in deed and in truth That's how we love. We love indeed. And we love in truth, the truth that's in the Lord Jesus. You know what the truth is? I need the Lord to help me with this. The truth is, if he don't help me, I won't love like that. If he don't love through me like that, I can't love like that. It has to be of the Lord. Church, could we pray tonight as we close this meeting? Help me to love like this, Lord. Help me with this, Lord. Because I I want to please you in this area of my life. I don't want to love just in word and tongue, but I want to love in deed and in truth I tell you what it do. If we start praying that and doing that, it'll change our homes. It'll change our homes. It 'll change our fellowship here at the house of God. And it'll change it'll change everything. It'll change your witness down there at the job. It'll change it. People say, man, what's gotten into this fella? He's different. Well, my dear brother Jack got saved. He was a coal miner. And Jack was a crazy man. He just mean, full of the devil. And he loved nothing better on the weekend than to get the police all stirred up and terrorize his neighborhood and his family. And when God saved that man, I've never seen anybody change so quick in my life. He was so full of hate. He said one time, he said, if I could throw this Bible across the country, I would. He hated the Bible and everybody who carried one. And then he gets saved. And I I can still remember some of the policemen saying, What happened to you? Is he on the verge of a breakdown? Do we need to be reserving him a room at the psychiatric ward? He's just different. We hadn't had a call. We hadn't had a call in six months. They were down there every weekend. What happened to that man? Why? We used to they used to have to go get him in the mine because he would fight. He'd get to fight and somebody'd do something. Somebody'd knock a piece of coal over and it hit his boot and he'd just lose it Well they'd drag him out and haul him to jail for a while, they'd cool down and let him go. That's just the way he was. He got saved. That dear man was so broken his heart, all he could do was just weep. And those men would pro would prod him and taunt him, like no doubt the devil working to him, and try to get him mad. And couldn't get him mad for nothing. He'd start crying. He'd say, look, I want to be mad, but I can't be mad. He said, God's done something to me. What I'm trying to tell you is this love is real. Just like the choir was singing tonight, God is real. Folks, his love is real. And when his love rules in your heart, it'll make a difference in your life, not just in your lips. In the way you live your life, you'll demonstrate the reality that our God is a God of love, and his love has been shed abroad in my heart. It's pouring out in my life. Father, please, help us with this