Truth. Thank the Lord. He's not a baby in a manger. He's not a man on a cross. But he's mighty God on the throne. And we praise his wonderful name. Um I want you to be in prayer for Brother Andy Bishop. He's with his brother Mark, and uh he's not doing very well, and so if you would pray for Andy and Pray for his brother, pray for the that family. Let's ask the Lord to undertake for them. And uh Andy Ask that we just pray this evening that the Lord would uh show him mercy at this time. So And we thank the Lord that Tim and his family are okay. They're home now this evening, a little banged up and bruised up, but we thank the Lord for sparing them. And we praise the Lord for his mercy in that, watching over them. But we continue to pray for them as well. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to Romans chapter number 13. Romans chapter number 13, and I have a text and I have a truth, but I don't have a title. And normally that's not the case, but it is this evening. And the truth of the matter is I'd rather have a text than a truth without a title than to have a title without a text and without a truth. So thank God for his word. But I want you to look at Romans 13, and if you're able, would you stand as we read the Word of God? Romans chapter 13. And I want to read one verse here in your hearing, verse eight. The Bible says, owe no man anything but to love one another. For he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law. Father, I pray this evening that you would undertake for the need of our hearts, as we've gathered here, We want to pray for our brother that you would be with him and his family. And I just pray for mercy. I pray for mercy for Mark. And uh Lord, his wife, and I ask you, Lord, to please just help that family in a special way. Lord, I pray as well that you would continue to help uh Brother Tim, his children We thank you for your mercy in their lives. Lord, as we've gathered here this evening, we come with an open heart and a needy heart, and we're praying, O Lord, that you, through your word, would speak to us individually and collectively. Open our eyes to see the truth and feed and instruct us as only you can. Lord, our eyes are upon you, and we're waiting before you, for we know what we need here this evening must come from heaven above. And so we look to you for that, and we thank you for the privilege to pray and for this opportunity to assemble. Thank you for your people. They're being faithful to your house and honoring you in this place. And just may your will be done, Lord, as we study thy word. We ask these things in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. And what I have read This evening has been a text that's been on my heart for a couple of months and I've just uh sort of been stewing, I guess, if you will. uh on the truths that are found in this passage. The reality is that is if we took Romans 13, 8 And put it into practice, it would revolutionize our lives. Not only would it revolutionize our lives, but it would revolutionize our homes. And I believe it would transform our churches and our community in a way that we cannot even fathom. It's a very important passage of Scripture, as all Scripture is. But this is critical as we think about what it's teaching us here. I want to give you three things this evening out of Romans chapter 13. I first want you to see a principle. And I believe it's a principle that we need to observe. And then I want us to focus for a few minutes on a practice that we need to follow. A practice that we need to follow. And then I want you to see, last of all, something that is pleasing to the Lord. Something that's pleasing to the Lord. Look with me, if you will, at the principle. The word says, owe no man anything. Now, let's be clear, we've got to first consider the context of the scripture You can make your Bible say, put near anything you want it to say if you disregard what it's saying. You say, well, how do I do that? You take it out of context. You you forget about what's being said before, you forget about what's say it being said afterwards. And you just make it say what you want it to say. And how many of you know that's a dangerous thing to do with your Bible? Well, the context has got to be considered here. Look in verse 7. The Bible says, render therefore to all their dues, tribute to whom tribute is due, custom to whom custom Fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. What the Bible is teaching me here is that I must pay my dues I must pay my dues. We can't isolate this and just simply say we're talking about a financial principle because we're not talking about exclusively a financial principle. We're talking about a practical life spiritual principle that we must live by. And that is, we ought to discharge our responsibilities to every man in such a way that we owe no man anything. He said, What do you mean by that, Pastor? Well, there's a lot that is meant by this. We ought to be concerned about the fact that we faithfully carry out every responsibility. Now he starts in verse 1 speaking about our responsibility, the government powers that he has established. He tells us in verse number six, we're to pay our tribute. Let's pay our taxes. And in verse number seven, we're to render these dues and tribute and custom and fear and honor. Putting all of that together, I would simply say this, that there's a great deal of things I'm responsible for that I ought not to leave undone. I need to pay my debt. Let me just talk about the character here for just a moment of God's people Do you know the character of God's people ought to be that of takers, or excuse me, of givers and not takers? God's people ought to be givers. And again, don't isolate this to just mere finance responsibility because it actually is not addressing that in particular It's speaking about the responsibility that you and I have to be faithful to carry out our responsibilities one to another. So what does that look like in real life? Well, let me say this: the Bible says, husbands, love your wives. That's a debt you owe. That's a debt you owe. I wonder how many wives wonder deep down in their hearts if their husband really loves them or not. And you know why? Because he's not paying his debt. I I wonder how many husbands wonder, does my wife really love me? And that question mark is there because the debt's not being paid. The Bible says, owe no man anything. Wonder how many children wonder, do my parents really love me? I I think the greatest thing a person can do for their family is not leave them millions, but leave them with the understanding that they are loved and cared for. I I I don't think of anything better that you could leave your children. I understand that that there are times that we do we have to uh we have to to be parents and not friends with our children. You know what I'm saying? If your goal is to be the friend all the time, you're you're gonna have problems down the road There are times that you have to be the bad guy, the person that says, no, this isn't right, and and you've got to deal with things, but but understand this There ought not to ever be a question as to whether or not you love them or not Then it's not a sin to say, I love you to your wife. Ladies, I I don't know if you're not in the notion of saying amen or not. That's a good place to say. Amen. You ought to say it every once in a while. And we ought to show it always. Owe no man anything. And yes, there is a principle here that you and I need to understand that carries even over into the financial realm. And I'll just throw this out because of where we are, and I want to be practical with these December Sunday evenings. Do you realize that most people I found this interesting, I was studying something and ran across this this week, that most Americans will go individually $2,000 in debt for Christmas. Individually. Get this. Over half of those people that go into debt haven't paid off last Christmas debt. Still paying debt. I guess 260, 280 something billion dollars that will just be spent on gifts. Let me say this: debt is never wise. It's just not wise. Well, I you say, but preacher, how in the world you live? Well, let me just say again, it's not wise to be in debt. The Bible says that the borrower is servant to the lender. You're putting your head in a stock. You're putting your hands into chains. Debt is killing our country. It's ruining families Do you understand how many families have financial problems and marriages are ended and broken up over a dollar bill? It's a serious problem. And God's people aren't immune from it. And so there ought to be a caution about that. I can still hear Pastor Sexton, Ralph Sexton Sr. He'd say to me, son , I I took the first church that I took uh years ago and and Brother Sexton had been interim in that church. And he was helping these people. And they called me and he said, listen to me. Don't ever lead your congregation into debt. He said, You'll put a noose on those people that they'll never get out of. And I have tried these years, God knows. Now the first church I took was in debt. Over two hundred thousand dollars, you say that's not a lot of money. Well, it is when you're a handful of people. And when your offerings are measured in a few hundred dollars on a good day. Man, what a what a what an albatross that thing was as we tried to labor and minister. It governed everything we did. Why? Because we had an eighteen hundred and ninety-seven dollars and fifty-eight centers. mortgage payment that came due at the end of every month. There's a lot of things I don't remember, but I remember that number. Because many n many times I prayed, Oh God, how are we going to pay that this month? Please, Lord, provide And I'm here to tell you, friend, that debt is rarely a good idea. It's something that you and I need to be aware of and wary of and say, by God's grace, we're going to stay away from it. Now, listen, I think a lot of times people go into debt because they want to be or look or appear to be something they're not. And we want to please people, or we want to uh make it look like that we're living here when we ought to be living here, and it really doesn't matter where we're living so long as we're living within our means. Now that's a practical application. Again, the text says, owe no man anything. Discharge your responsibilities in such a way that, listen, brother and sister, there's no question about it. As to whether or not you're doing what you're supposed to do. And especially in the realm here of showing our love one to another. Don't owe a debt. You know there's going to come a day when your lips will be silenced in death, and you'll not be able to say, I love you. There'll be somebody who won't be able to hear those words. I love you. My parents were not perfect people. But one thing my mother did is she made sure we knew she loved us. In fact, the last thing my mother said when she came out of that coma she was in just mere minutes before she went into eternity. My brother was here, I was here. She looked at him, she said, I love you. She looked at me, she said, Son, you know I love you. And those words were the last words I heard her say. Oh no man anything. I don't know that some debts need to be paid right here in this building tonight That there might be some individuals who need to express their love. You say, well, I don't want them to get the big head Can I use one of Richard's words? Hogwash. More people die of a broken heart. I've never heard anybody dying of being encouraged too much. I've never heard of anybody being hurt because they were loved too much. You ever been over loved? Anybody here ever been subject to too much love and say, preacher, I just couldn't take no more, I don't need any more. Huh? Owe no man anything. Make sure we're discharging our responsibilities as the people of God. And showing our love one for another. Now quickly, notice number two, here is a practice that we need to follow. First the principle. He lays the principle out. And he says, live so as to be faithful to do all that is required of you, whether it's tribute or honor or custom or fear or whatever it may be. Carry out your responsibilities. Now look at the practice. But to love one another Again, in the context, that one another, by the way, when you see that phrase, it almost always refers to Christians. Christians' responsibility to each other. One another. We're to be kind one to another. We're to forgive one another. We're to love one another. All of these one another's are mostly, and in fact it's it's nearly all in all cases, it is speaking of a believer to a believer. Do you understand that you have a greater responsibility one to another because you've been born again? The family of God is critically responsible for one another. In fact, God watches And deals accordingly with his people as we treat one another He said you offend one of these little ones, you're better off to have a mealstone hung around your neck and cast in the sea. That's the Bible. God said it would be better for you for someone to put a heavy weight around your neck and take you to the bottom of the sea as for you to offend one of his little ones. Now, God doesn't like his children to be mistreated. Now understand something. One of the sad realities is the meanest people on earth towards each other are God's people. I had a man save me one time. He said, I find I can find more camaraderie among my lost friends than I can my saved ones. And that broke my heart. Because I'm going to tell you something. I couldn't deny what the dear man was saying to me. But brother, sister, that ought not be. That ought not be because we live by principles, don't we? And the principle is we owe no man anything. And so notice again, the context of one another is speaking of the Christians' responsibility to each other. And let me say this: the Christian trademark. John thirteen thirty-five. Jesus said it. Jesus said it By this shall all men know that you're my disciples. Jesus said, I'm going to put a brand on you. Can I say that? I'm going to put a trademark on you, and this is the way everybody will know your mind. And there's a lot I could say that it does not say. Because there are a lot of things that we say, well he can't be a Christian because he doesn't have this trademark. And by the way, it's often a trademark That we might wear brilliantly I've noticed that Christians who categorize each other often categorize others by the things that they do most well. They say, well, they must be a Christian because they're doing what I do well. Jesus said something that ought to shock all of us and shake all of us because We don't do this very well. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye what? Have love one to another. That's the trademark. That's what Jesus said would establish you and I in a lost and dying world as one of his little children. We have a mark upon us, and the mark upon us is this mark of Christ-like love. Now, think about the quality of this love. And again, we have to look in our Bibles. 1 Corinthians 13 gives you the long list of qualities of this love. In fact, we're in the neighborhood there. Just flip over a few pages. And let's read, beginning in verse number four, what the qualities of this love actually are. Starting in verse number four, the Bible says, 1 Corinthians 13, 4, Charity suffereth long. And look at this, and is kind. Let me ask you something. Is your Christianity the kind kind? I don't know where in the world we got the idea that mean equals spiritual maturity. Somewhere along the line, we got duped by the devil. And we said, well, to be spiritual, bless God, you've got to be hard and mean and tough. And God says, hold on a minute, charity suffereth long and is kind. One of the sweet memories I have is of my dear pastor who's now in heaven. And the great kindness. I mean, he preached hard. There were things that he could say nobody else could say. But I'll tell you what he was always. He was always kind. I was friends with his grandson and we were staying the night at his house and we were actually in his study watching a television program. And there were things on it. It wasn't vile or filthy. It just wasn't becoming of young Christian men. And preacher got up behind us. He didn't preach or yell or scream or throw the television on the ground. He said, boys, you reckon if the Lord come back, you'd want to be sitting right here. He patted us on the head and said, I love you. I'm praying for you. And he walked out. You say, what'd you do? Turn that television off. We got our Bibles and started to look spiritual. We were playing. But we were trying to be spiritual. But I've got a feeling that our natures are such that had he done it in any other way, there would have been rebellion rise up. And I'm telling you something, oftentimes it's our Christianity, or at least the manner in which we go about it that creates the rebellion, whether it's in home or church or anywhere else, and we blame it on the lost world when really it's because we fail to show the kind of love God says we ought to show. Charity suffereth long is kind. I don't want to hear about your Christianity if you are not kind. Charity envieth not. Charity boneth not itself, is not puffed up. Someone said love don't care who gets the credit so long as the job gets done. And isn't that a problem? Well, I did thus and so, and they didn't say a word about me. Well, hold on a minute. Did you get the job done? Is it not more important that the goal is accomplished? Then the workman recognized. See, love sees that. It's not puffed up Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked. Well, I'm going to tell you something. I have never I've been a pastor for a little bit now. But I have never seen a generation so on edge as they are now You sense it. It's almost like people are saying, give me something to be mad about. They sit in our pews, listen, they attend our churches, and they say, Preacher, I'm just here waiting for you to knock the chip off my shoulder. My Bible says that's not love. Love's not easily provoked. Can I say it like this? Love doesn't get riled up easy. You ever had a good natured old dog? I've not had many like that. I've had a few. I got one now, if you look at her sideways. I think she'd remove a limb. Her and I walk very suspect towards around each other. We don't like each other. And uh she lets me know it and I tell her that. I don't know if she understands English, but At least we know where we stand, and I watch her. I trust her about as far as I could throw her, and that's not very far. But that's the way God's people are. But but isn't it something I I've seen I've got friends that they have children and they've got this dog and those kids they climb on that thing, swing on its ears, pull its tail, climb under its belly. Eat food out of its bowl. Hey, you hadn't lived, you hadn't had a good mouthful of dog food, son. You don't know what you're missing. Some of you know what I'm talking about And you know what? That old dog just takes it. He don't get mad, he don't get upset, he wags his tail and loves those kids. And and I'm thinking, man, if I was that dog, I would mm-mm. You know why? He does he's not easily provoked. I'm gonna tell you something. Something's wrong with our Christianity. When we got a fuse that's just about lit, and we strike a match to finish the blow. My Bible says that's not charity. Notice it goes on to say, thinketh no evil. Do you know what charity does? Charity doesn't go to the worst outcome in its mind. It doesn't think evil. It it doesn't say, oh no. I know why they did that. I wonder how many fights have been started because somebody thinks they know why somebody did something and they don't have a clue. How many times have we, you know, we have assumed, how many of you aren't assuming is dangerous It's awful dangerous to say, I know why he said that. Well, do you? Do you really know? Be careful about that sort of thing. You'll damage a lot of relationships. Through assumptions. The Bible says love thinketh no evil. I sang back to him today. When we prepared to go back north, I had a lot of unpleasant visits. I'll just say that, and that's all I'll say. And I was on the edge just about of saying, I'm not talking to anybody else. And Timmy called me. He said, Pastor, I want to meet with you. And I thought, well, all right. One more, I'll hear his spew. Listen to him. Take it, smile, love him, pray for him, and go my way. And I was ready. Mentally, emotionally, he came in, he sat down, he dropped his head, and he said, Pastor, I just want you to know something. I got saved a week ago. I said, you what? You're a member of this church. You grew up in this church. You did what? He said, Yeah, I don't know if you noticed that. I went to the altar, and it was a week prior, I think it was, and he said, I asked the Lord to save me, and I just felt like you needed to know that before you leave. Boy, when he left, I got on my knees and I said, God thank you. Listen, love thinketh no evil. You and I live in such a perverted and corrupt world that if we're not careful, we'll put a bad spin on every action and reaction, and it's not out of love. If I love somebody, I'll give them the benefit of the doubt. If I love somebody, I won't put that bad spin on everything they do or say. In fact, you know what love does? Love rejoices in the truth. Look what it says. It goes on to say, it rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth, beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. I'm talking about a practice we need to follow, and that is to love one another. Church, pay your debt. There are people that would not be late on a deal yet show very little love. And I'm telling you, both are important. There are people that would avoid debt, but yet you are so deep in debt, it's going to take you the rest of your life to catch up. I heard a man, I literally heard a man say this. He was bragging. I've been married 40 years. I told my wife I loved her when I when I got married at the altar. I said, really? Man, that's something to be proud of. How'd you like to be married to that shoe? Forty years? I figure he's got 40 years of debt he's got to make up for. He better get started if he's going to live long enough to pay his debt. I'm saying, brother, sister, dear church family, let's not be indebted in this matter, but let's discharge our duty and show our love. Practice this, follow this great truth, and demonstrate our love one to another. You're never going to love somebody too much. Never In fact, I think our churches are dying for a lack of this. I believe we're losing children. I believe we're losing another generation. Because we don't love them. Oh, we'll tell them how to live. We'll straighten them up and smarten them up and show them what they ought to be doing, but we don't love them. And I've got news for you, friend. You're going to drive them into a world and a devil that's got open arms who's ready to scoop them up and sweep them away into hell. It's time we pay our due and love one another. I'll tell you one of the most challenging things you'll do is demonstrate Christ-like love one to another. I'm not saying everybody's easy to love. In fact, I think God sends some in our way that aren't easy, so we'll learn to do it anyhow. But the Bible doesn't say just love the easy ones. It says love one another. Let me quickly get to number three, and I want you to see something pleasing to the Lord. We've looked at the uh principle that we need to observe and we've looked at the practice that we need to follow. Now look at this that's pleasing to the Lord. The Bible tells us back in our text in Romans chapter number 13, he says, O no man anything but to love one another, for he that loveth another hath Fulfilled the law. Now watch this. Context is important again. Verse 8, or excuse me, verse 9 says, for this Thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet, if there be any other commandment It is briefly comprehended in this saying, namely, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Look at it. Love worketh no ill to his neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law. And do you see something? Look at the very next verse. I've never really put this the way it is in the text, the context, but verse 11 says, and that. Now that Tells me that everything he's just said applies to or ties into what he's about to say. And that knowing the time that now it is high time to awake out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. You know what he's saying? Christian, wake up. Start loving each other. That's what he's saying. Your opportunity is soon passing. And if you want to fulfill the law and be pleasing to the Lord, then understand this that this is the, well, James calls it the royal law. It's the royal law, kingly law. What's the king's law? That we love one another. Friend, do you realize that Christ is our example of this? What motivated him to leave heaven and come to earth? Love. What caused him to live as man among men? Love. What took him up Calvary's dark hill and held him on an old rugged cross? Not nails, not soldiers, not not the crowd, not the Jews, none of that. It was love What made him pour out his blood and cause it to run down? It was love. What caused him to give up the ghost and say it is finished? It was love. What took his body, his lifeless body, and put it in an old cold grave, it was love. I'm glad to tell you it was love that got him up on the third and appointed morning, and it is love that motivated the Lord Jesus. I wonder what motivates you this evening. I wonder what motivates me. See, there's a lot of our Christianity that's nothing but smoke and mirrors. You know why? Because it's not motivated by love. I wonder if you would do what you do if No one was watching. See, I fear so much of our Christianity is bundled up in, I've got to appear. It's gotta look good. It's gotta look good. Don't matter if it is good, it's gotta look good. And I've got news for you. It doesn't matter what it appears. The appearance is not what's important. But what's important is what is it? What's the motivation? Do we love him? I know that's kind of a I don't know that's not a foolish thing, but uh on a night like this somebody said to me, guess what? It's raining again. Oh boy. Yeah, it's raining again. It's Sunday night. That's what it does around here. Every Sunday night it rains. And I'm looking at a group of people that you had to get out in the dark and to get out in the cold and get out in the rain and get out and come to church and get wet coming in here, get wet leaving out of here And I know it's it it's almost borderline insanity to say you did that for some other reason than you loved the Lord, but it's very possible. It's very possible that we can go to great lengths of sacrifice for a reason other than love. In fact, Paul said there in 1 Corinthians that we can give our bodies to be burned. And if we don't have love, it means nothing. You can teach your Sunday school class for a multitude of reasons, but I'm saying this, the one motivation God's looking for is love for Him. You live in your Christian life because you love the Lord? Or are you living your Christian life because you're afraid of what somebody else might say? I don't know about you, but I've lived long enough that people are going to say what they're going to say no matter what you do. You might as well love God and please Him. I'm talking about your motivation. You know what will keep you going when everything in you scream and quit? Love for Him. Love for him. You love him too much. I remember leaving a meeting one time, so mad and hurt and crying and I was driving home and I said these words. I said, Lord, I wouldn't do this for nobody but you. And I was mad about it. I had to ask the Lord to forgive me for being so mad about it But I'm trying to say this evening that anything lower than a motivated heart out of love for the Lord Jesus is not worthy of the great love that He showed us. My Bible says we love him because he loved us first. And our love is a reciprocal love. We are to love in the same manner or in the same uh measure and I know we can't attain that, but that's certainly our goal. The love as we've been loved It was love that motivated Christ. By the way, it's love that motivates him still. You realize he loves you? And that's not just a cheeky, empty religious statement. It's a harsh, bold, strong reality. He loves me He loves me with an everlasting love. I can't do anything to get out of the grip of the love of Almighty God. What love is that? I know the world sells a cheap counterfeit. I'm not talking about that. God loves me enough to give me a spanking if I don't do right. He'll chasten me. Use a Bible word. He loves me. Love's not a soft thing. Hey, if your love, if that love of the Lord Jesus never crosses you, that's not love, that's idolatry. His love is such a strong love that our our Lord will deal with us and our Lord will work on us and our Lord will speak to us and our our Lord will chasten us and he'll correct us and he'll instruct us. But I'll tell you what, love will not do. Love will not let you go. Thank God for that kind of love. Christian, you can't live right and love wrong You can't live right and love wrong. Oh, but preacher, I cross my uh T's and I dot my I's and I do this, that, and the other. God bless you, friend. But if you don't love like the Lord commands you to love, you're not living right. I don't care what kind of show you put on. Listen to me. The Pharisees were on the front row in the ministry of Jesus continually. They were the cleanest living, the straightest walking. The high standard living people in that day. Jesus said to them, you're hypocrites. You're whited sepulchres. You wash the outside, on the inside you're full of dead men's bones. You're not real. You've got a form of godliness, but you're denying the power thereof. That's what Jesus said to them. The people he preached hardest to was that outfit. That we might today look at and say, wow, look at how straight laced they are I'll tell you one of the things missing. Do you realize they bring a woman taking in adultery and everybody there Is delighted over her demise, except Jesus. They set it up I don't doubt that this was all planned and put together and they're ready and they say, killer, and nobody cares. Nobody cares. Here's somebody's going to die. Here's somebody that's going to shed their blood. Here's somebody that's going to be put up. They're going to go into eternity. at the hands of these men who are trying to get something on Jesus. And our Lord very masterfully says, Alright, we'll stone her. The man without sin, throw the first stone. Let's go ahead. It's time to stone her. We'll start it. We just need someone without sin. And I love this The one man who could throw a stone chose not to. But here's what he said: neither do I condemn thee. You go and sin no more. The Lord Jesus pardoned her and saved her life. Why? Because it was not all about who's right. Now, you know what the fair? They said it, we want to prove we're right. But here's what mattered. Here was a woman hanging in the balance. A soul, a precious soul. Brother, sister, I fear our ministry sometimes lacked the love of God. They lack the reality that we're to show forth the love of the Lord Jesus Christ. Look, it don't matter who's right or who's wrong or what we look like or appear to be. Or on the surface are here's what matters. Are we showing men and women what Christ came for? Don't get caught up. You young men that are going into the ministry one day. And there may be people here. You don't even know it yet, but God's going to call you and you're going to go. So listen. And God's going to do something in your life. Know this. Know this. that showing forth the love of Christ is more important than ranking high among the opinion of the brethren. Because one day those brethren are going to turn on you like wild dogs, and it's not going to matter what the brethren think. What's going to matter is what does my lovely Lord Jesus Christ think. You every one of us are going to give an account to him. And those of you who go into ministry, you're going to give an account to the Lord. And you're going to answer to him. For the manner in which you ministered to his people. When Peter was restored to fellowship. Our Lord didn't say, now Peter, do you believe these doctrines and list them out? I'm not minimizing doctrine. Don't go out here and say, preacher, minimize doctrine. That's not all I'm saying. But he knew doctrine wasn't his problem. Peter believed right. Peter was gun barrel straight, but his problem was He was like a cock gun loaded. He's dangerous. And his problem was this: love the Lord. Peter, you love me? Three times, Peter, do you love me? See, Peter's denial was not a courage problem, it was a love problem. He wasn't a coward. Man, he tried to take one and serve him. The Bible says there was a mob came with Judas. And the best I can figure, there were two swords in that company of disciples, and Peter had one of them, and his was ready, and buddy, he was whopping heads and taking off ears. He wasn't a coward. But I tell you what he did have a problem with, his heart grew cold. And he didn't love the Lord like he should have loved the Lord. And because he didn't love the Lord like he should have loved the Lord, he did things he'd never do, or should have never done. And I'm saying to you, you can have your doctrine right, and you can have your standards right, you can have all these things right, but if you don't love God, you'll mess up. And maybe in worse ways. Oh, we've got to love him, church. Here is a principle to observe and a practice to follow, and something that pleases God. It pleases God when we Obey his word by loving one another and fulfilling that law. We need to pay a debt. We need to pay the debt of love. You think of that old hymn, the debt of love I owe? It's got that statement in there. I've been thinking about that and how it applies to this. I owe a debt of love. Paul said, I'm a debtor to all men. In church, we're commanded by the Word of God to love one another. You can't ever legislate it. I've lived long enough to know you can make all the the demands you want to make, but basically at the end of the day, most people are going to do what they want to do. But when you let God deal with your heart and you surrender to Him, you'll love like you ought to love. Can I ask you something? If God spoke to you tonight Would you find a place of prayer here in just a moment and say, Lord, help me? It may be you need to call or maybe go to someone and say, look, I just want you to know I love you. I love you. Bottom line. I don't want nothing. I'm not here for anything. I just love you. And you need to know it. I wouldn't it be a tragedy to leave this world and people have question marks? I don't know if they love me or not We ought to so live around here as a church that there's no question that we love one another. None. We ought not to give any occasion to say, I'm sure that crowd loves each other. Folks, there are days that probably some of us would settle if we just liked each other. Or acted like it. Amen. I'm talking about showing love one to another. It's a debt we owe. It's a debt we owe. May the Lord help us with that. May the Lord help us. I don't think we're going to have any music. We're going to bow our heads and pray. And why don't you find a place to pray if God's touched your heart tonight about this? And ask the Lord to help you I don't know what it is that that we need help with or what area it may be. That's between you and the Lord. That's all that matters really. But perhaps he's touched your heart and you say, hey I need maybe there's that that conversation that needs to be had, that demonstration. By the way, we're not to love in word only, but in deed in truth. We need to demonstrate that love one to another. Let's stand together, pleasing. If you