That Jesus is not a figment of our imagination, but he makes all the difference And I'm looking at many individuals whom Jesus Christ has changed. And he is the difference, and he will make a difference. And I highly recommend him to you if you don't know him as your personal Savior. It's our privilege to have the Knight family with us, missionaries with wounded spirits And I'm going to ask Brother Zach to come at this time. He's going to give an introduction of his ministry to you before we open God's Word. And if you want to know more about uh t his testimony and and things the Lord uh has done in his life, uh he spoke in the Sunday school time and so that'll be available if you would like a copy of that. But uh you pray for the Knight family and uh Brother Zach 's going to introduce uh portions of his family anyway. So it's good to have you here, brother. Morning again. First we'd like to thank Pastor and the church for allowing us to be here. It's always a privilege to present our ministry and our burden to fellow believers. Um as he said, we're the Knights. I'm Zach. Um my wife Katie, uh, she's here. Uh she's suffering from a uh migraine attack this morning, so she's over in the laying down. Uh we have our oldest son Aiden uh over there and Owen sitting next to him and Paisley is down with the kids and so we're the knights. And yes, well, we're missionaries with Wounded Spirits Ministries. Our ministry is to reach out and help those suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. When you think of post traumatic stress disorder you think of uh military service. Usually that's the first thing people think of But uh with studies showing that uh five percent of the current population today suffer from PTSD, the 17 million people. And twenty percent of the population will suffer at some point in their life. So that's 70 million people. We reach out to, yes, military and veterans, but we also reach out to the first responders that answer the call to their communities. We reach out to the doctors and nurses that help us in the hospitals. in uh the clinics every day. And we reach out to our local communities because uh PTSD doesn't care who you are. uh or your background. Everyone is susceptible to PTSD. And with that, uh the Lord's called us to help this ministry. I am a uh Army veteran. I served just under nine years. Did three uh combat tours in Afghanistan and I suffered from post traumatic stress. Uh took years of of me uh I guess not accepting the fact that I suffer from post-traumatic stress, but I do. And uh the Lord humbled me and and broke me and Told me I needed help. I was saved when I uh was in the army. Um but like the prodigal son, I was far away. And so after that the Lord just called me back and and and since when did Spirit has helped me, I want to help others The Lord's called us to wound the spirits because it's a lot easier to help someone with PTSD if you know what you're talking about. And I know uh what PTSD is and and the depths that it can take you. Not only that, but my family knows what PTSD is. And they've dealt with me. Uh Aiden will be sixteen or he'll be seventeen this year, so for sixteen years he's known. I've been married uh for eighteen years this year, so my wife knows, so she can help the spouses. So the Lord's called us to to help in this in this capacity to help his people and the people that aren't his, so that way we can lead them to Christ. As Christians, that's our number one job is to go ye therefore And that's our job. And we just wanna help people. We wanna help people that are in despair, that have no hope. And so the Lord's called us to wound the spirits, and we're in the process of trying to find land to build a retreat center to bring people in for counseling and help. to get the long-term care they need. PTSD uh just doesn't get over itself in one one day or one week. So we have week-long camps that we uh hold around the country. to bring people in for uh uh getting help initially and stuff, but a week's not long enough, so we're developing this retreat center to bring people in for as long as they need And that's our calling. We're going to be at that retreat center to help those people. We're reaching out to our local communities and first responders, our veterans. Studies have showed that 22 veterans a day take their life in suicide. Since getting out in 2014, I've lost six of my battle buddies to suicide. Several more at the drug overoses. Now we don't know if that's suicide or or or what, but that was the cause of their death. They're not alone. were there to help them. 22 veterans, that's just veterans. That's less than 1% of the population are veterans. So there's 99. 99 % of people out there that aren't veterans. And there's suicides just people not being veterans too. One suicide is too many. No matter w the demographic or not. So it's our goal to reach out and let people know that there is someone out there to help, and it's Jesus. Jesus has helped us. Every counselor or coach that we have, Jesus has helped them heal. And we're here, we're on deputation, we're asking you guys to be just a prayer partner, a financial supporter, or come and help us at the camp. We're looking for volunteers too for all these camps. And it's our burden to help those because Christ has helped us. Every day is still a struggle. But Christ has helped me way more than I can tell you this morning. And Christ can help every one of you. And I like your verse, John 316. We did a study uh in in one of our groups. It's the most searched verse. in the Bible. And it says God so loved the world. He loved everyone. Not just his select people. Not just Joe or or the Baptist. He loved everyone. And he loves those veterans with BTSD. He loves those first responders. Even when they think that no one loves him. I'm here to tell you, if you need help and you don't think anyone loves you, I love you. Christ loves me, I love you. And so we're here and our on our table back there. I forgot to mention during Sunday school we have a box of little army men back there. Take one and put it somewhere where you'll see it and to pray for those people that have PTSD or serve in our country right now. We were gonna get first responders, but I didn't think little policemen pointing a gun at someone would be a good a good thing. Back there we have our uh Doug Carriger, our founder of book, uh Help for Wounded Spirits. Uh it's a it's a book that goes through all the the different things for PTSD through the Bible and what the Bible says on it. Uh we have a music CD back there. Um with one of the our former missionaries, Stephanie Westcoe. I told her story in in Sunday school, but her and her first husband were missionaries to Cameroon and he got gunned down as soon as they got there. And so that uh she plays and sings all the songs on that book or on that C D. We have our prayer cards. Please take a prayer card. I ask those that take it to put it in their Bible or on the refrigerator, whichever one you open the most That way you always see it. Right? Um we have tracks back there for first responders and veterans and uh almost anything back there. There's one back there that's really good, uh would-be suicide It's a story about a person that was going to commit suicide. He already wrote the letters and everything, and then changed his mind because of Christ. We have a podcast. It's called Help for Wounded Spirits. It's about 35 minutes long. And it's a daily podcast that you can listen to on your off time. It goes through the Bible. And our sign up for our prayer letter is back there too on the little notebook. So if you would, we can either email it or mail it to you, whichever one you prefer. And uh yeah, please just pray for us and and we'd like you to be a part of of reaching those that helped us in in a time of need and And then prayer is the most important thing a Christian can do for another Christian. And it's the easiest and cheapest thing too. It doesn't cost you a cent. And so with that, I just I just thank you again for allowing us to be here and and be part of this Lord's Day with you guys. Appreciate it. If you would take your Bible, please, and go with me now to John chapter number three and verse number sixteen. And I'm going to invite you to stand with me, for I'd like to read the verse again. John chapter number three and verse number sixteen, the Bible says, and can I ask you this, would you just Ask the Lord quickly to help you to hear this verse, not like you normally hear it. You say, preacher, I could quote it frontwards, backwards, and a hundred different ways. But let's ask the Lord to speak in a fresh way to our hearts from a very familiar text. Sometimes we think we know what we know, but we don't know what we think we know. And so let's ask the Lord to really help us with that, would you? John 3, 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. I'm interested today in this phrase that he gave his only begotten Son. That he gave his only begotten Son. Father, I pray again this morning that you will help us from the Word. I'm grateful I'm so grateful this morning for this Bible. Lord, I thank you that it's food for our soul when it's hungry, its strength when we're weak, its direction when we're confused. It's peace when we're troubled, and Lord, it is power from on high. And I pray this morning that you'll use your word to speak to the heart of each one of us and help us to see just what it is, Lord, that you desire to show us and communicate with us. And Father, I pray your will be done. We love you. We thank you for your love for us. Thank you for the Lord Jesus and the gift of his life for our soul and our salvation. We praise your name and pray now that you'll undertake in this meeting in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen, you can be seated. I feel like I need to say what we've covered so far. We've looked in the first two words of John 3. 16 and looked at the origin of love. The Bible says for God. And there is no love like God's love, and there is no love apart from God's love. The Bible says in little 1 John that God is love. And so any expression of love or any example of love has to be traced back to its origin, and that origin is the Lord for God. And then we looked on last Sunday morning at love 's object. We talked about the value of one. For God so loved the world. And I'm glad that in a world of humanity, that one still matters to him. One is valuable to the Lord. One individual, no matter how destitute they may think themselves to be, or how separated from everyone else. One still matters. And over and over and over again through your Bible, our Lord emphasizes the fact that one is valuable in his sight. He left the 90 and 9 and went after one lamb. It was just one. It was just one. You say he had 99 others, yes, but that one mattered to him. And I'm looking at a whole bunch of ones. And you are ones that matter to him. The more I think about what D. L. Moody wrote and spoke years ago, the more convinced I am that there's a lot of truth to that. He said, if I could convince every man that God loves him, I could convert the world. And I really believe that it would change our lives And I'm not only talking about lost people. I'm thinking it would change saved people's lives if we were convinced of the truth of the Word of God that He does love me. That old hymn we sing, I am so glad that Jesus loves me. Jesus loves me. Jesus loves me. I almost hear a word of astonishment in that hymn writer's voice. I am so glad that Jesus loves me. Jesus loves even me. Now I'm glad he loves you. I praise the Lord for that, but I'm thrilled over the fact that he loves me. But he loves me. And so the value of one. We looked at love's object. It's in my heart this morning to to point to your attention love 's operation. Love's operation. Love is an action word in the Bible. Love is something that does something. Love is just not spoken. John said in 1 John 3:18, My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. Now, why would John urge Christians not just to love in word, but to love in deed and in truth? You know why? Because that's how Jesus loved. His love was an action, a love of action. In 1 John chapter 4 and verse number 9, the Bible says, in this was manifested the love of God. Towards us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through Him. See, in short, love gives. Now you can give without loving, but it is absolutely impossible to love without giving. Love gives. Love is a motivator. It puts you in act, if you will, if I can say it this way, it puts the transmission in gear and says, now get busy. Love is something that motivates you, that moves you. How many of you have been married 20 years or more? Would you raise your hand? That's a whole bunch of you. How many of you have been married 40 years or longer? Would you raise your hand? Well, still got a bunch of you. Fifty years or more. Raise your hand. That's a good number of you. Boys, you've been at it a long time. And here's what you've learned. I love you are three easy words to speak with your mouth. It's the easiest thing you can do. I mean, anybody can say it. But you're spending a lifetime showing it. And sometimes that's harder to do than to just say it with your mouth. But I'm glad that the God of heaven did more than just say, I love you. He demonstrated his love in a specific way that you and I need not ever doubt, no matter what comes our way, that we are not loved by him. His love put him in action. That he gave his only begotten son. Someone said that God's love gave heaven's best for earth's worst. That's what God's love does. In Romans chapter 5 and verse number 8, the Bible says, But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Well, I was a sinner. No good and undone and maybe a hater. Well, the Bible says I was at enmity. I was at war. I'm at odds with him. If I'm not saved, I'm against the Lord and I'm at enmity, no matter what I may think. That's the statement of the Word of God And yet Christ died for me in that condition? He died for me while I was a sinner? What love would bring God out of heaven to live as man among men? I'm going to tell you something. There was nothing but love that drew him from heaven's portal. There was nothing but love that brought God down to man. There was nothing but love. There's no other force. There's no other thing that could manipulate or motivate or move the God of heaven to give his only begotten Son. What love that is, that Christ would die for sinners like you and me. I think sometimes our high view of ourselves gives us a lower view of the Lord. We think, well, I'm a pretty good person. And yet, you know, the Bible really makes it plain when it says there's none good, no, not one. When you begin to understand that the Bible describes you and I apart from Christ as wretches, I mean i i it that we're worms. We're you can take all of the names that you want to use. And understand this, that they pale to, they fail and they fail in comparison to describe what we are apart from Jesus Christ. But yet he loved me. He loved me? The God of heaven loved me. One that was fallen and undone. And you see, I'm not only a sinner by choice I'm a sinner by nature. It's what I am because of who I am. You know why you sin? You sin because you've got a sin nature How many of you had children? Alright, now the rest of you that claim those that they're yours but you're saying I don't worry about no they're mine. Would you raise your hand They're yours. You claim them. I'm like, do I see your hand up, Jason? I'm not sure. I can. But you know something You don't give a class on sin in the family, do you? Do you sit down and tell your children how to tell lies? Now don't raise your hand at this. I don't want to embarrass your dear children. But the reality is, how many of your children lie? You want the answer is? All of them. At some point or another. And they start very early. You know a little baby. I believe little Brooks here today. Did she come? Isn't that something? Thank the Lord for that. She's a miracle baby, isn't she? And we praise the Lord, and I believe Mama is obviously here, Brooke is here. And so we thank the Lord for both Aaron and and Little Brooke. But do you know something? Little Brooke has a sin nature. As precious as that baby is. You know something you can you can change her diaper and you can feel her belly. And wrap her up and nothing be wrong and put her down. And if she don't want to lay there, I promise you at three months old she knows all I gotta do is cry. And and all I got in in fact she probably don't even have to cry. She probably just whimpers and she's got half a house full of people right there. You know why? She's learned. Now you you parents know what I'm talking about. You put your little darling boy or girl to bed and And you've tried to lay down, get some sleep, and they sound like they gave off an Apache war hoop. I mean, they just scream to the top of their lungs and you think, oh no, they're dying And what an education when Sarah was born did my wife and I get. And our nights of sleeping were done. You know, she never, you know, she never slept the night through till she was six years old. And she's 30 now and she's Joseph's problem and I don't even know that she sleeps all the way night all the way through the night anymore yet. You know, she may not get there yet. But she would cry and you know what a young par I mean when you're young you don't know you think something's wrong and I nearly broke my neck running down the hall and go in that room and pick her up and then the minute you pick her up she just smiles. And I thought, you know what, you little rascal, you're telling a lie. You know where that came from? You know where that old nature? That's your sin nature. And listen, my dear friend, every person's born with it. We all have a sin nature But I want you to know something. When you begin to understand that you were born in sin, and because of your sin, the Bible says you're dead and your trespasses in sin. Meaning that you're cut off from God. Your spiritual man is dead. You don't need reformation. You need a resurrection. You need to be made alive because you're dead. And you understand that God in your condition gave his son. Not an angel, not some other being, not a not a special lamb raised in heaven and full and and and and and grown in such a way to be a sacrifice? No. He gave his only begotten Son. And that love compelled him to give to you the best that heaven had. for the worse that that earth held. And I'm here to tell you Christ died for the sins of the whole world. You're not going to look in the eyes of a man or a woman, a boy, a girl. that Jesus Christ does not love and did not die for. Now that's love. That's love I can't put into words. And it's hardly love that we can get our little heads around. I want you to notice three things in this text real quick. Number one, I want you to see love's purpose. Love's purpose. It's found in one word. You see it? It's the first word, that. That the word suggests something that is specific and singular and significant It's a big word. How many of you know there are little words in the Bible that are really big words? Because they convey a great deal of meaning. And here's the meaning behind that word that You say, what is the purpose of the love of God and the gift of the Lord Jesus? John chapter 12, Jesus says these words, John 12, 27. He said, now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this cause came I unto this hour. For this cause came I unto this hour. What is the purpose of God's love? It's one word. The cross. The cross. When you look at the cross of the Lord Jesus, you see the reason he was born. Christ was born to die. Many make a lot to do, and Jesus was an example. He is the example. He's the greatest example. The church, he was more than an example. A lot made to do about the Lord's teaching, and the Lord's teaching is is much to be made to do about, and the Lord's teaching is something I need to know and observe and follow. But our Lord did more than just come and be a teacher. You say, well, the Lord worked miracles, and boy, He worked miracles. You can't study the New Testament without seeing miracle after miracle after miracle that Jesus Christ did. But know this. He did not come just to work miracles. Jesus was born to hang on a cross and die. He was born to come to this old sin-cursed earth and bear your sin on Calvary's Dark Hill. That little baby wrapped in a manger we celebrated some months ago was destined to hang on an old rugged cross. It was the purpose. You know, Jesus talked about his hour. He did that. In the start of his ministry, there in John, I believe it's chapter number two, where he did the miracle at the wedding in Cana of Galilee. And it was there that he said, Mine hour's not yet come. In other words, he understood and he was communicating that I'm here for a purpose. I'm not here to mesmerize crowds with miracles, and I'm not here to just set examples for men to follow. My hour is to hang on a cross as the bloody sacrifice for the sins of the whole world. That was his purpose. What's God's love? Now I want you to see this: that there's purpose in the love of God. You know, much of what we call love today has no purpose. It's just mere sentimental ticklings on the inside that pass with the changing breeze. When two young people stand together and vow before God and to one another, I do, they're saying, I will till I'm done. Do you understand that? It's a commitment. Love is not a feeling. Somebody say you want a feeling, and this is my saying, I guess, but if you want a feeling, go grab a hold of electric fence. You you, brother, sister, listen, you and I need to recognize that there's more to love than just how we feel. Now thank the Lord for the feelings that come with love. I'm not saying we're void of that. I had someone say to me one time, I'd sure hate to be married to you. And under this my breath, I said, I hate to be married to you too. But anyway My point is this. Love's not an emotion. God didn't look out of heaven on man and feel sorry for him and move out of pity. Do you understand that? I know the Father, he he pities us because our He knows our frame, we're but dust, but He didn't look at us as just mere individuals to have pity on. His love engaged a commitment. A commitment that carried from the birth of Bethlehem to the Garden of Gethsemane to the old rugged cross. A commitment that said, I'll take your sin. He who knew no sin became sin for us who had no righteousness. Oh, beloved, listen, that's love Love sees it through. Love goes to the bitter end. Love goes through the darkest depths of valleys And and treads the wine press of the wrath of God. And that's what Jesus took when he hung on the cross. He took the wrath of God. God poured his wrath out on him so that he could pour out his love on you. God poured out his wrath on his son so that he could extend to you a pardon. Listen, salvation's easy, but it's not cheap. Salvation's a free gift. You can't do one thing to earn it. You didn't contribute to it at all, except your sin. But it costs the very best of heaven for you to be saved. Oh, if we can understand that, cheap grace, there's no such thing. Love's purpose, that. That. Let me let me hurry and look at this. Love's present. What's his present? He gave. He gave. I said it's impossible to love without giving. And God gave. Now that word gave here in John 3. 16 is a unique word. It's only used that I could find one other time And that's in Acts chapter number three, speaking of the king of Israel being given to Israel as their head, as their leader. Here's what it means. It means to give one to someone to care for his interests. To give one to someone to care for his interests. You go to a wedding and the father will give the bride away I told Joseph prior to their marriage, I said, now once I give her to you, no refunds, no returns , it's done. Amen. She's yours to care for. You give someone. Do you see what he gave? He gave his son to care for the interests of mankind. What was the need of mankind? I needed a solution for my sin. Bottom line, I was dying in my sin and separated from God, and so God gave me someone. Who would care for the interests of another? He gave me his son so that his son would give his life, and in the giving of his life, the son gave to me a way to be saved. What love is that? Oh church, here's love's present. All that that I might have eternal life in him. The cross is not a romantic tale, it is not a mere spiritual religious story. It was a bloody, awful reality where God made a provision for man who had sinned and offended him. And God made a way. I couldn't make a way. Look, Adam and Eve tried and they failed, didn't they? Let's make uh uh aprons of of leaves and let's try to take care of what we did and make everything better. Some of you have that personality. Is it type A personality? You're a fixer. And you, you know, how many of you are fixers? And you you'll kill yourself trying to fix everything. But how many of you know there are things you can't fix? You can't fix it. I don't care what you do or try, you just can't fix it. And man could not fix his sin problem. I believe Cain's sin was he tried to fix his sin problem his own way. He tried to go his own way. It's what Balaam tried to do, he tried to go his own way. It's what Korah tried to do, he tried to go his own way. And the Bible says that way that seems right to a man ends in destruction. But I'm glad Jesus came and said, I am the way. I am the truth and I am the life. You know what Jesus did? He made a way. He came to be the solution for man's sin and hanging on Calvary as dark a day as it was. And my friend, I I don't think we have the vocabulary or the understanding to really comprehend The darkness that surrounded the day Jesus died, when he hung there and became sin, and the Father turned his back, and the wrath of God was poured out. And Jesus suffered in my stead and made a heavenly transaction, God paying God for the sins of the whole world Oh, my friend, on that day, though, you can do one thing. You can draw a great big heart around it and say, right there, God showed me he loved me because he gave himself for me. I've noticed every time the Bible says he gave himself, he always reminds us that he did it out of love. He wasn't forced to. He didn't have to. It didn't accidentally happen. He did it because he loved me. He did it on purpose. It's no small thing that God gave. God 's gift. Can I say it like this? God's gift is a big deal. And then I want you to see love 's person. The Bible says that he gave, and look at these last four words, his only begotten son. His only begotten Son. Do you know that statement only begotten is used five times in the New Testament? Can we look at them real quick? If you're in John 3, go back just a couple of chapters to John 1. And by the way, they're all used by John. John 1. 14. John 1. 14. And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. John 1. 18. Go down a few verses. No man hath seen God at any time. The only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him John 3. 16 is our text, is the third one, and John 3. 18 is the fourth one. Look at John 3. 18. He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. One more, first John, first John chapter four, and verse number nine 1 John chapter 4 and verse number 9. In this was manifested the love of God toward us. Because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. Church, there's five times he said, My only begotten Son. You know what five is the number for? It's the number for grace. It is God's grace displayed towards man in the giving of his only begotten Son. And by the way, that phrase there is a very specific phrase that speaks of the nature of the Lord. Can I say this? This is an expression of exclusivity. Just be plain. There's nobody like him. There's just simply nobody like him. He's the only begotten There's nobody like him in nature. There's nobody like him in action. There's nobody like him in position. He, my friend, is the only begotten Son of the living God. And oh what uniqueness there is in the person of Christ. Think about it. He's perfect man and perfect God and perfect sacrifice, giving a perfect salvation. There's no one else. That's why Jesus so declared with clarity and authority. And that's why we preach a gospel that says Jesus is the only way. There's no other way to heaven except through Him. You don't have a Baptist way or a Methodist way or a Presbyterian way or an Episcopal way. You have God's way. God 's way is Jesus. He's the person of love, my friend. When you look at Jesus, you see the love of God in flesh. God showed and shows his love through this person who gave his life a ransom for all. Oh, listen, love holds nothing back where the interests of mankind are concerned. He held nothing back. You know what he said that Paul said in Romans? He said, and I'm paraphrasing because the verse won't come to my head just yet. I'm in that stage where things got to catch up. I don't my mouth works faster than my mind. So it'll get there eventually. It's coming. But but he he gave his son and he compares that gift and he says, How shall not He freely give. He gave him, will he not freely give you everything else? I mean, what he did is he gave the best. He gave heaven's best. He gave his only son, his only begotten son. Church, know that's love. And there may be someone here, you're listening, you say, preacher, I really didn't ask him to do that. It wasn't something I required, or it was something you required. You may not have requested it, but your sin required it. And that to me is a double expression of love that he would do that without me asking. That he would see my need and he would see my sin and he would provide a solution before I was ever born. Church, that's love. Now I'm going to tell you something. You have never been loved like he loves you. Now, love gives. Now here's the question. Have you received? Love gives. That's established. Love gives. Love can't help but give. Love can't help but give like a bird can't help but sing. It's just going to come naturally. It's going to come out of your heart. It's going to come. And the love of God compelled him to give his son for your sin and mine. But have you received him? You know what the Bible says? But as many, I'm looking at some as many's. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Are you one of those? Have you received him? Or you say, preacher, I'm a member of a church. That's not receiving him. You can join a church and not receive him. Oh, but I've been baptized, whether sprinkled or by immersion, or but I uh that's not receiving Him. That's religious exercises You say, but I I light candles and I pray prayers, and well, I was raised a Christian. Well, all of those things, my friend, may be whatever they are, but the reality is they're not receiving Him When you come to God by faith. It's an action of stirring in your heart when you understand I'm lost and I have not God and I'm without hope. And I need Jesus, and we come to Him for mercy. And I've got news for you. When you come in an honest heart, seeking the mercy of God, recognizing the depravity of your own soul You are not going to find a God who coldly says, I'm not interested in you. You're not going to find a God who says, I want you to jump through hoops and do this, that, and the other. You'll find a God who said, I provided a lamb slain before the foundation of the world. There's blood shed to save you. Welcome home, my child, and he'll receive you in a moment. I'm going to tell you something. He's more willing to save you than you are to be saved. God showed his love in the person of his son. Love gives, but do we receive? You say, what happens if I don't? You turn your back on the only way to heaven. You close the door. You say, is it a big deal? You better believe it is. It's serious business to say no to Jesus Christ. Because what you're saying is, I'll try some other way. When Jesus said there is no other way What you're saying is, I'll make my own way. Isn't that arrogant? I'll make my own way. And there is no other way. Christ is the only way. And listen, my friend, if you turn your back on him You're rejecting your only hope. You're stepping into an eternity without God in a place called hell. An awful reality for all who reject Him. You say, well, I know why people go to hell because they're bad people. No, I'll tell you why they go to hell. They reject Jesus. That's what lands the man in hell. Do you know there are people who are good by man's standards who spend forever in hell Because they reject Christ. Moral people. Upright people. People that you would look at and say, well, that has to be a Christian. Had a precious lady saved in a tent meeting years ago, and my she was the epitome of what you think a Christian should be. She was probably one of the sweetest, most dedicated people I'd ever met. We were there 19 weeks under that old tent. And that lady was handy 90 years old. And I never saw her miss a meeting. She had led her mission, her women's missions uh group in her church. She had taught Sunday school. I think she said 40 years. And one night she got up out of her seat, she had her own little lawn chair, because she didn't like those old hard uh center's chairs we had under the tent. They're there, they're hard on purpose, by the way, so you don't go to sleep. And she got out of her little lawn chair and she came up and she, with great effort, got on that altar. And when she got through praying, she said, Pastor, I want to talk to the people. And he thought she had a burden over some, you know, uh family or something like that. And she said, I just want you to know I got saved. And everybody, I mean it just we mean you got saved. Oh, she said, when I was just a wee girl, they took me to Sunday school and and I went with a group of girls and And I went and prayed with with some she said, I really didn't pray. I went with four or five others and we were all in a circle and we were just, we all kind of prayed together, she said, or that's what they thought. And she said, the person dealing with us said all of these girls are saved. And she said it made everybody so happy, I just could not bring myself to tell them. And all of those girls were baptized together, and all those girls joined the church together, and she said, I've lived my whole life like that because I was too proud to say I had not received Jesus Christ. But she said tonight, God the Holy Ghost spoke to me one more time. One more time he dealt with my heart, and she said, I knew right now, if I rejected Christ, this would be my last opportunity. I'm going to tell you something. I'm glad she got in. It might have upset some people's religious apple cart, but thank God her name got written down in heaven and she got born again from above. Your pride ain't worth going to hell over. Your church membership or whatever you're hanging on, except Jesus Christ, isn't worth dying and going to hell for Listen, friend, receive him while you have the opportunity. While he's dealing with your heart and the door of mercy is still open. Don't be like that crowd that stays on the outside of the ark. And says, I'll uh uh when the rain starts falling, I'll get in. My friend, there'll come a time it'll be too late. The door will be shut, the opportunity will be lost, and you'll be forever separated from God Oh, friend, trust him today. Receive him today. Don't reject him, my friend. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Thank God that love gives. But oh what a solemn responsibility have I received. Love's giving. You got a Bible that just screams it and has since God pinned it. All around you. Love gives. Love gives. Love gives But have you, have you , have you received him, the Lord Jesus He's the only way. And my friend, when you receive him, he does what you can't do. He makes a dead sinner come alive. He makes a lost man saved, and he makes a man dirty in sin, clean before a holy God. I heard a man give his testimony and he said, I'll tell you something. He said, when I got saved, it was the first time in my life I felt clean. First time, he said, I think the man was 40-something years old. He says, The first time I felt clean. There's a cleansing. There is a fountain filled with blood. Drawn from Emmanuel's veins and sinners plunge beneath its flood, lose all their guilty stain. That can be you today if you'll receive him. If you'll receive him. The Bible says it's with the mouth confession is made, but it's with the heart man believeth under righteousness. I'm not asking you to go through some religious three steps to something. I'm asking you, my friend, to do business with the Holy God in the depths of your being and receive Jesus Christ. And whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Will you call on him? Will you receive him? And dear brother, sister, don't get beat down by the devil's lies that the Lord don't love you. Well You say, but my circumstances and my all these things, we try to say, know this. Linger back at Calvary Go back to the cross. Look what Jesus did. This isn't a Sunday school lesson. This isn't just a little story made up. This is the reality that God gave his son because he loved you. He loves you. And you and I can't deny the love of God so long as the cross stands as a monument in the history of man. He loves you. Thank God he does. Calvary is an eternal expression of God's love for man. And I think we'll spend all of eternity praising and thanking Him for the cross. I know we'll sing a new song in heaven. I don't know that we'll take the old ones. There may be some portion of it we'll sing. But I believe one of the themes of the, and I know according to the Bible, they already sing about the lamb slain. They're already worshiping the lamb slain up yonder in heaven. And one of the things we'll sing about and praise God for is that he died for me. He died for me. Do you know heaven's gates are made of pearl? That's what the Bible says. And I don't believe it's figurative or uh just an allegory. He said they're made of pearl. And a pearl is formed over suffering. That pearl, that that oyster, whatever gets that little grain of sand and it starts to secrete that Milky substance and it covers that grain of sand, and what was hurting him suddenly is taken care of That pearl is formed out of suffering. You and I are not going to walk through the gates of heaven without realizing suffering got me here. Not mine, his. I'm here because another suffered in my place. I'm here because one hung on a cross and paid the ultimate price and shed his blood. Oh, friend, listen, he loves you. He loves you. Lost friend, he loves you. He loves you and wants to save you today. Will you receive him? I want us to stand together. We're not going to sing this morning. Just come and play softly a hymn of invitation.