Right now, well, if you have your Bible, we want to invite you to take it and turn to Revelation chapter three. But before you get too ensconced there, I want to ask you if you have something on which to write and something with which to write. Just get them out for a moment if you would You can use a scrap piece of paper, you can use the back of your bulletin where it has a space for sermon notes or something like that. You can uh dig around uh in in uh your purse lease and and find something down in there Uh you can find uh something to write with. My father used to say maybe a smudgy finger you can lick or a knife to open a vein or something else you can write with uh there on the uh on that piece of paper. Uh if you don't have one uh anything like that fellas, uh you know whenever the pens and and and pencils disappear in our trailer they always end up in my wife's pocketbook I don't go after them myself. The last person that went after something in White's pocketbook got lost. And the search party they sent after them hasn't come back yet. So uh they seem to have some kind of a filing system for all those things among the Kleenexes and whatever that are down there in the first. So uh you maybe you can borrow something like that uh or the the ladies and entrepreneurs, she can rent it to you for the few minutes that it'll take to do what I want you to do with it. But if you get just g if if you absolutely don't have something on which to write or something with which to write, you can do this in your head, I hope Uh anyway , folks have done it before. Here's what I'd like you to draw, a little diagram to start with before we go to the scriptures this evening that'll help us as we get into the message of the Word of God for tonight. Now what I'd like you to do is this take your pen or pencil, your mental pen or pencil, whichever you're using, and your piece of paper. And I'd like you to draw a circle large enough to write a few words in on one side of the paper. Now when I say one side, I mean left or right, not front and back. If you do it front and back, you're gonna have a hard time doing what I want to ask you to do. So on one side of your paper, there left or right, draw a circle large enough to write a few words in. Then when you have that there, then go to the opposing side that you left open and draw another circle over there large enough to write a few words in. Leave some space in between the two of those so that when you get done you have something that looks like one of those old barbell sets, because I want you to then draw a line across there that connects the two of them together. Okay? Put a line in the middle, connects the two. Some of you are getting artistic. Shading this drawing. No, just get the basics on the paper, okay, for right now, for the sake of time tonight. So you have the the ball on one side with some uh space for some words and a a line running across. To the other side with another circle larger than a thread, a few words in. Here's the next thing I want you to do. Put a hash mark in the middle of the line, halfway across. Now don't look at me like that, fellas. You know what a hash mark is. You watch enough football during football season. Make a dividing line right in the center of that line. That's between the two circles that you're going to write some words in in just a few minutes tonight. Okay, so uh when you get done that much, you should have a circle on one side, but uh Ready to have some words in there with a line with a hash mark in the middle and running across to another circle large enough to write some words in. And when you got all that on the paper, look up so I know you're not lost. Okay, good. It looks like most of you are still with me. Okay, great. Here's what I want you to do next. I want you to take your pen or pencil or your mental pen or pencil, and I'd like you to write in the circle, one circle or the other, your choice. You can choose whichever I'd like you to write these words. Sold out to God. Sold out to God. By the way, this is a personal test. Uh wives, don't look at your husband's paper or husband, don't look at your wife's paper, you know, do it on your own that way, okay? Do you write on that one? So whichever one of the circles you've chosen, you've written the words sold out to God. Now in which other circle you have left open still, write these words, sold out to the world Sold out to the world. So again, now that you have you have a circle with the word sold out to God in it, with a line running across with a hash mark in the in the center of it, to the other circle that says sold out to the world. And uh when you've got that done, then look up so I know you're there as well. Well, okay, good. Uh haven't lost anybody still. That's that's good. You're all doing very well for tonight. Okay, now here's what I'd like to ask you to do with that. I want you to take your pen or pencil, your mental pen or pencil, if that's what you're using, and I'd like you carefully and prayerfully To put an X in that diagram where you truly believe you are in your walk in your relationship with the Lord. Now let me explain what I'm talking about Uh if for example you say, Brother Webb, I as far as I know, I'm not holding anything back from God. There's nothing between me and the Savior. As far as I know, everything's right between us. And uh and and and I may not be sinlessly perfect, you know, or whatever, but I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm sold out to the Lord Jesus Christ. I really believe that's the same. leave that all my then don't don't be ashamed or afraid to put your ex in the circle that says sold out to God. If on the other hand you say, well preacher, I wouldn't even be here tonight if somebody hadn't forced me to come and I figured if I wasn't here somebody like the pastor was going to call me and ask me where I was or whatever else. So I'm here, but I would rather be home watching something on a television set or something else that way. Then put your ex in the circle that says sold out to the world. Sold out to the world. If you don't feel like you're really one or the other of those, then put it wherever along the line illustrates where you believe you are. For example, if you feel like I'm about halfway between one and the other, then put the X on the hash mark in the middle of the line, halfway across that diagram. If you feel like you're more one than the other, then put the X wherever on the line illustrates where you really believe you are personally in your walk with the Lord. Okay, understand what I'm asking you to do? Nod your head if you do. Okay, rattle, rattle. All right, fine Okay, then do it right now. And I want you to again be paral about this. Don't be too flippant about it. Think about it carefully. Ask the Spirit of God to show you what uh what you ought to put there and then put that that X in the diagram. Now some people get worse than a woman on moving day. Over here. No, no, no, no. Back over there. No, no, no. It looked better over there. Well, nail it down somewhere as to where you really believe you are right now in your walk and your relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ, okay? Alrighty. Good. I appreciate that. How many of you are still with me? You can look up again. Okay, excellent. I'm glad you did. Now, I I would never embarrass any of you by asking how many of you put your action in the circle that says sold out to the world. Nor would I embarrass anybody by asking how many of you put your X in the circle that says sold sold out to God. Depending on the size of your paper and the size of your circles and your line and everything, there can be a lot of space between the edge of one circle and the edge of the other circle. May I just ask this question? How many of you folks here tonight would say, preacher? I am not telling you exactly where, but my ex is somewhere on the line in between those two circles. Let me see your hand if that's you tonight. Okay All right, if you were to glance around at the moment that I just asked that question, you would notice that most of the people in this auditorium just raised their hand. Now, look, no matter where I preach this message, and I don't preach this message very often There are a lot of other messages I'd much rather preach than the one I'm about to preach tonight. But let me tell you, whenever God lays this message on my heart to preach, it doesn't matter whether it's at a Christian school chapel. or whether it's at a revival meeting service or a camp meeting service or a camp service or something else that way, the majority of people always have put their acts somewhere on the line in between those two circles. And I would suggest that probably if I came around and looked at those papers that you've published put those diagrams on that maybe most of those people who raise their hand to say that would find their ex or have put their ex somewhere just outside the circle that says sold out to God but not in it that way. Now you say Brother Barry why did you have us do that on that diagram before we even get into the Word of God? tonight because folks first of all it's very easy for us to to sit and listen to the preaching of God's word and think about all the other people who need it. Amen. Boy, I wish so-and-so was here tonight. They should have heard that message that evangelist had to preach. My father used to say, if your phone's ringing, pick it up. Okay, don't hand it to somebody else. Don't let somebody else listen to the message. You you uh respond to the message yourself. Listen to what God is speaking your heart about. Uh a second reason I ask you to be able to uh do that diagram tonight is because you personally have just identified where you are in your walk with the Lord Jesus Christ. And we're going to see exactly what the Word of God says about that. In fact, by the time we get done with the message, we're going to have seen what the Word of God says about all three of those positions. The one circle, the other circle, and the line in between. We're going to see that and what God's Word says about those things. So nobody's going to be able to walk out of here and say, I don't know what God says about my life or me. No, you'll know exactly what God's Word says about that tonight before you leave this place. So I'd like you then, if you've got that diagram there, keep it there. You're going to want to make a couple of other additional notations to it in a minute, but I want you to stand with me, please, as we read our scripture text in Revelation chapter 3. Revelation chapter three, if you'll stand with me and I'll read beginning tonight at verse fourteen. The Lord says, And unto the angel of the church of the Laodiceans write, these things saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God. I know by works that thy Thou art neither cold nor hot. I would that thou wert cold or hot, so then because thou art lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth. Because thou sayest I am rich and increased with goods and have need of nothing, and knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and nagging. Naked. I counsel thee to buy thee gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich, and white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear, and anoint thine eyes with Isa , that thou mayest see. As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten, be zealous there. Therefore and repent. Let's remain standing for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, I pray that you'd open your word to our hearts tonight, that you speak to us, challenge our lives we ask, Lord tonight, and I pray that you would bring revival amongst the hearts of those who need reviving. And Lord, if there's one here who's not even really saved, May you bring the work of redemption in their heart in their life tonight. And we'll be careful to thank you and praise your name for all of that. We ask in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen. You may be seated. this evening. Now if you would make a couple of additional notations to your drawing, you may want to put underneath the circle that says sold out to God the three-letter word H-O-T -Hot. And underneath the other circle with the words sold out to the world, the four-letter word C-O-L-D Cold. But from the edge of one circle all the way under the line to the other end of the that same line to the edge of the other circle, write the long word L-U -K-E-W-A-R-M lukewarm. What does God's Word say about these things? What are the attributes of all three of those positions this evening? I want us to be able to see from the Word of God tonight. Well, I want you to notice if you want to find a good comparison of those two ends. circles. Well you couldn't find a better place to go than where we're going to go right now. Keep your finger here. We'll come back. But go to the first Psalm. Psalm one, if you would please The psalm begins with a description of, or the characteristics, or if you will, the attributes of someone who is Sold out to God or hot. Look at what it says, verse one. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seed of the scornful. What then is the first attribute of a person who is sold out to God? They are separate. They are separated from the world. They don't get their worldview from the Wall Street Journal or from the fake news media or somebody else that way. That's not where they get their outlook on life from or their worldview from. They are one who is separated from the world. They're not listening to the garbagey music of the world throughout the day. They're not watching the garbage of the world on their television set. They're not on the terrible uh garbagey websites that you can find on the internet these days today. They don't want to have anything to do with that. They don't walk in the council of the ungodly. They don't Stand in the way of sinners, they don't sit in the seat of the scornful. Why? As they recognize those are the steps of progression away from God Those are the perceptions You see somebody put it this way, the content of the world that you allowed to be pumped into your mind will become concept, the way you begin to think, which then translates into conduct, the way you live day by day Somebody else put it this way, if you listen long enough to the things of the world, it won't be long before you begin to live those things, and then it won't be long before you'll be leading others into those things as well. It's also a picture of every part of our lives, everything we do that we accomplish. So here's a picture of a person who in every part of their life has w wants nothing to do with the wicked things of this world. Just like we said in the Sunday school hour this morning when the old world comes along and says, Oh, you poor Christian, you can't drink, you can't even social drink, you can't smoke, you can't use drugs, you can't, you know, fool around in sexual sin, you can't rock and roll, you're not even allowed to Christian rock and roll according to that evangelist. Uh they want us to feel bad about that, but let me tell you we ought to recognize the greatest killjoy in this world is sin. And that's why we don't want to have anything to do with it. We can say to them, look, I could do all that stuff that you say I can't do. I could do all that. I could blow my brains away with drugs. I could I could destroy my f my life, but I I I don't want it and I don't need it. Because I'm sold out to God. That's that's the characteristic at first attribute that's mentioned here in Psalm 1 of the person who sold out to God. Notice verse 2 says, But his delight is in the Lord. law of the Lord. And in his law that he meditate day and night. In addition to being separated from the world, the second attribute of a sold-out Christian is that they are saturated in the Word. They love the Word of God and the work of God and the people of God. They love the hymns of God. They love to be in God's house where the where the when the doors are open. They don't let other things come between them and being faithful in the house of God like some people do. They let their grandkids' little league ball game get in the way, or they let uh their granddaughter's concert choir concert get in the way or something else, and they say, Well, it's so important for us to be able to teach our young people responsible. Responsibility to what? To what? To a sport, to a coach, to a game, rather than to God? That those other things come first before the things of the Lord? No. We need to be careful. And a person who is sold out to God is a person who's not only sold out to God. separated from the world, but they are saturated in the Word of God. They love the scriptures. They're they they they can quote you sa passages of scripture correctly if they're references about things that are going on in your life or things that are going on in their life as well. There it can be a blessing to people because They have immersed themselves in the Word of God. That's vitally important. So the Bible says the second attribute of a person who is sold out to God, in addition to being separated from the world, is that they are saturated in the Word. And then thirdly, notice verse 3 tells us they are. successful in their work. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Now when it says he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that's the irrigation ditch. Here's the one that's been plucked up and planted in the garden by the irrigation ditch for the purpose of its bringing forth fruit, and it does bring forth Fruit. What kind of fruit? The fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, love, front, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, meekness, faith, against all those things which there is no law, remember the Bible talks about there in the Word of God. But Proverbs eleven thirty as well, the fruit of the righteous is a tree of life. And he that wineth souls is wise. So a person who's walking with the Lord, they're separated from the world, saturated in the word, and successful in their work, are winning others to the Lord Jesus Christ as well. And that's one of the greatest things that we can do with our time, our talents, our treasures, and our toil as God allows us to before He takes us home on this world. We are bringing forth fruit. It's the picture of abundant life. Think about it. I know trees, for example, that uh that uh bear delicious fruit but they don't stay green all year round. And I know other trees that stay green all year round, but I don't know anybody who enjoys putting pine cones on their breakfast cereal. Here is again a picture of abundant life. That's the attribute of a person who is truly sold out to God. So they're separated from the world, saturated in the world. Now, if you go on beyond that, you get the next circle, which is the one that says sold out to God, or excuse me, sold out to the world. What are the attributes of someone who is sold out of the world? Well notice the next verse says, verse four, the ungodly are not so. Now right away people throw up a flag and say, Well, wait a minute, but the word that says ungodly, so that must be talking about the lost. Well, I I believe it's talking about the lost too, but I don't believe it It ca it counts out the ungo the the believer who's not walking with the Lord either. What does the word ungodly literally mean? Without God or godliness. Now I know some Christians for which God has nothing to say about how they how they w uh uh work or or where they work, God has nothing to say about how they dress, God has nothing to say to them about what kind of music they listen to or what they entertain themselves with. They say it's my life, I can do with it what I want to do. Folks, that's not the case. God is the one that ought to be in control of every one of our lives. He is the one who purchased us with his own precious blood, and of all people he ought to have the right to tell us how we ought to live From day to day. The Bible says the ungodly are not so. So ungodly means without God or godliness, if God has nothing to say about how you live your life from one day to the next, then you are indeed without God or godliness, which is ungodly. So the ungodly are not so. What does it mean when it says the ungodly are not so? Well, in other words, if you take the three things that we just mentioned about a person who was sold out to God and reverse them, you'll have a picture of a person who sold out to the world instead. So instead of being separated, Look, they can tell you exactly how many grains of what kind of powder to put in what kind of a cartridge to hunt a certain kind of game and a certain kind of a rifle But they can't quote you five scripture verses if with their references correctly. They can quote to you all of the the statistics about the uh at bats and and and and runs batted in or or uh yards rushing and their fantasy football team that they've got. They've got all the players memorized and all their stats are memorized, but again they can't quote you five scripture verses with the references correctly. They're spending all their time memorizing and thinking about stuff that isn't That isn't going to help them in their walk with the Lord Jesus Christ as well sometimes. And so they are saturated in the world. They get their whole outlook on life from what they're getting off the internet or what they're getting off the crowd at work or what they're getting off the friends they hang around with. in school if they're a younger person, whatever, rather than in the things of the Lord. They let the world's finite wisdom guide their life instead of God's infinite wisdom. That's the person who's sold out of the world. They're saturated in the world. Number two, they are they are separated from the word. They're separated from the word. I've met believers like that. There was a lady I met in one of our meetings in Pennsylvania years ago. She said, Brother Barry, God's convicted my heart this week through the Preaching, she said, about how I haven't been spending time with God in His Word. She said, I've been saved now for 25 years, and I haven't read my Bible through even one time yet. Now, before we shake our heads, I wonder tonight, what about you? Are you faithful in reading God's Word? Do you love to spend time in the Word of God? For you is it something you may start out at the beginning of a year with a Bible reading schedule perhaps and you get a day or two behind and that turns into a week or two behind, which translates into a month or two behind and then you throw up your hands and say, Well, I might as well not bother as I'm too far behind that way and so You don't spend time spending uh your time in God's Word to begin with at all, then. You can't spend time away from God's Word without it affecting you negatively. as a Christian. You need that feeding on the on the Word of God on the book, just like your physical body needs feeding on physical nourishment to be able to make you strong physically. And if you're not in the Word of God, you're not growing in the things of the Lord as well. A person who is sold out of the world is just like that because what they're feeding themselves on is all the junk garbage of the world rather than the holy word of God and the work of God in their lives. The third characteristic of a person or attribute of a person who's sold out to the world is they're unsuccessful in their work. In fact, what we're given here is an illustration. by the psalmist. He says, the ungodly are not so, so reverse the other things we talked about, and that characterizes the person who's sold out to the world. But then it says, but they are like what? They are like the chaff Which the wind driveth away. What is chaff? When uh I first started going to India, most of the times I was going there to preach, I was going in January. They call that harvest time. For two reasons. Number one it's when the weather is best And so if you're going to have outdoor evangelistic meetings and see people come to Christ and be saved, that's the best time of the year to hold those meetings. But it also is the actual harvest time for the rice patties and sometimes the wheat that they're growing in other places over there and I've seen them thresh their wheat or rice the same way they used to do it many, many, many, many, many, had a few more many's on there here in the United States. years ago as well. In other words, they will get all the plant parts and the whole bunch of stuff they've cut down out of the field and they drag that to the top of a hill on a windy day and then they will have a pitchfork or a big blanket and they'll put the plant parts and the seed and all the rest of that that they cut down and got out of the field. They put that down there and then they begin to toss that up in the air and they keep throwing that up in the air or using their pitch. Aren't heavy enough to fall back down, uh and and what does fall back down is the good grain of wheat. Now the other thing that blows away when those things are being pitched up in the air is what's called the chaff. What is chaff? Well, if you look it up on the internet, you'll find out chaff is a a an alcoholic. outward veneer that is on the outside of a green of wheat. If you want a good definition, you could say a chaff is an outward veneer with no inward substance. So the wind comes along and strips that right off the outside and blows it away and the heavy gr good grain falls back to the ground and hopefully that's what they have left in their pile. By the end of the day they've been pitching all that stuff up in the air that way. So the Bible says a person who is sold out to the world, they're They are saturated in the world, they're separated from the world, they're unsuccessful in their work. In fact, they're like chaff. They're an outward veneer with no inward substance. Do you know anybody like that? There are lots of people who claim to be Christians and claim to be walking with God, but if you look at their life, it's just an outward act. It's an outward veneer. There's no real life inside. There's no truth to what they're testifying of their life that way. That's a person who is sold out to the world. They're like the chaff which the wind driveth away. So we have then the two pictures of the two circles on the end, sold out to God, separated from the world, saturated in the word, and successful in their work, on the other end the circle that says sold out to the world, which is separated from the word, saturated in the world, and unsuccessful in the work, in fact like chap, an outward of an ear with no inward substance. But you say, wait, Brother Webb, hang on just a second. I didn't put my X in either one of those two circles. Most of us, as a matter of fact, here tonight, put our X on the line somewhere in between those two circles. And as I said earlier, chances are if we looked at that, they're probably at least on the half of the line toward the center. Circle that says sold out to God. You say, what about me? Well, God has something to say about that as well. And this is what I want us to see. You see, what we've been talking about so far are the attributes of these things. What I want you to see tonight is the attributes. Actuality of the way things truly are. Actuality of the way things truly are. What do you mean by that, Brother Webb? Well, let me put it this way to start with. According to our scripture, God says, I know thy works that thou art neither cold nor hot, I would thou wert cold or hot, so that because thou art lukewarm and neither cold nor hot I will spew thee out of my mouth, but as thou sayest I am rich and increased with goods and have neither nothing, and knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind. blind and that naked. Look, what the Word of God says actually in actuality is that there is no such thing as a line between those two circles. What? Yeah, you heard me. I said there is no such thing as a line between these two circles. This is what I got slugged right in between the eyes with when the preacher preached about this same idea in the chapel service I was in in high school, my senior year. year in high school. There is no such we w we want to you say, preacher, well wait a minute. If there is no such thing as a line in between those two circles, then why did you have us draw it there? For two reasons. Number one, because that's what we think. That's what we believe. We believe that we don't have to be sold out to God or sold out to the world, but we can sort of find some kind of a niche somewhere in between where we can over here hang on to the things of God with one hand and over here hang on to the things of the world with the other hand. And we can somehow have a wonderful life on this planet here. No, that doesn't work that way. You cannot hang on to God with one hand and hang on to the world with the other hand. There is no middle ground between those two circles. Down these scriptures and listen to them. Psalm 1 verse 6 says what? The Lord knoweth the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. Did you hear any middle ground in that verse? No, you have the way of the righteous and you have the way of the ungodly. Or what about what the Bible says in 2 Corinthians chapter 6? Would you turn there for a second? 2 Corinthians chapter 6 We're going to begin reading there at verse 14, which says, Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Now let me pause there for a minute and say this. Look, if you're a young person and you're considering Marrying or even courting somebody who is not a believer, you are out of the will of God. What? I said, if you are even thinking about dating, courting, whatever you want to call it, is different things. Well wa wa if you are even thinking about that or think about this as a parent, if you're considering allowing your children to date or marry someone who is not a believer, you are out of the will of God because the Bible says you should not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Somebody put it this way, if you as one of God's children, marry one of the devil's children, it won't be too long after the wedding's over that you'll be having troubles with That's the devil, in case you didn't figure that out. So the Bible says you are free to marry, but marry within the Lord, not again to those that are lost. No such thing as Christian dating marrying or whatever that way. You shouldn't even be considering courting somebody who is not who you would marry or have a c as a candidate to marry. And you shouldn't have anybody's a candidate to marry who isn't a godly person who isn't walking with the Lord. Somebody said, Well, how am I going to find somebody like that? Somebody else said, Well, you get so lost in the in your love for the Lord Jesus Christ that in order for somebody to find you, they have to be as lost as they are with you. As lost in their love for the Lord too. Bible tells us some things, some questions that are asked here. By the way, somebody else mentioned to me a businessman in one of the churches after I preached this message came up and said, you know what, when you talk about being unequally or together, that means in business too. Not just in marriage, but in business as well. You want to get trouble in your business, then you set up a business that's with a person who doesn't belong to the Lord Jesus Christ, because they don't have the same got goals you do or guidelines you do or the same principles you do By living your life. You're you're likely going to have problems in your business if you're unequally together with an unbeliever in that regard as well. But look at the questions that are asked of us in the rest of these verses here It says, be not equally or together with unbelievers. For, question number one, what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? What's the answer to that? There is none. There is no fellowship between righteousness and unrighteousness. What about the next question? And what communion hath light with darkness? What's the answer to that? None. And then it asks another question, and what concord hath Christ with Belial or the devil? The answer again is none. Or what part of he that believeth with an infidel and avowed unbeliever? The answer again is what? None. And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? The answer again is none. You don't have to read very far into the Bible to find out how much God hates idolatry. Amen. So the answer to these questions is none, none, none, none, and none. Now let me say something else that maybe some Christian psychologists might disagree with me on, but I believe I've got all the authority of the Word of God to say what I'm about to say. I do not believe in grey areas. You don't? No. Why? Because I believe God gave us enough principles in His Word to determine whether anything in our lives is right or wrong. You can go to God, and God will show you what is right and what is wrong. How do I believe that there are no gray areas? Well, look at that same question that was asked earlier on in verse 14. What communion hath light with darkness? The answer was none. Now I'm not much of an author. I prove that every time I go to draw a chalk drawing. I just like to draw. I'm not an artist. But you know, I'm enough of an artist to understand that if you're going to get the color gray, you have to mix two colors to get it. What do you mix? Black and white. Now, if black represents sin and ungodly and unrighteousness and white represents the holiness and purity of God, can we mix those two things together? No, then you can't get gray. I find that a lot of times when somebody says something is a they want to say it's a gray area, it's something that they already know in their heart because of the conviction of the Holy Spirit of God has been bothering them, that they've been wanting to do, but the Holy Spirit of God is telling them they shouldn't be doing. And so some of them will ask thirty preachers who come to the church, every preacher that comes through about that one particular item that they're thinking about or that they love in their lives, and they can have thirty-nine out of forty preachers say that they shouldn't do it, but if they have one that comes through the system Well, I don't think I see anything wrong with it. Ah, brother, but so-and-so has no problem with it, so it's okay for me to do. When somebody's spending that much time trying to justify what they're doing, it's already sh proof, I believe, of the fact that the Spirit of God's already shown them it's not what they ought to be doing. Think of the person who is the trick rodeo rider. That's what all these folks want to be. They wanna They want to kind of put one foot on the back of God's horse and one foot on the back of the world's horse and come down the ring with the reins in their teeth and show how impressive they are at being able to control the best of both worlds. The only problem with that idea is that God's horse is going that way and the world's horse is going that way. Straddle that you're in trouble. I was traveling back from preaching in southern Georgia once when I was in Bible college. It was Sunday night late, and I was trying to keep myself awake by listening to the radio broadcast of one of those gasping preachers. You know the kind I'm talking about They gasp all the time when they preach. But I'll never forget one statement he made in the midst of the message he was preaching that night. He said, The only thing you get from straddling a fence is splinters in the hind end. Do you realize that it's you can look this up on the internet I suppose, but y that there was a fellow in Gettysburg that didn't want to offend the North or the South at the Ga Battle of Gettysburg, so he put on a Union top and a Confederate bottom, went out in public? You know what happened to him, right? The Union shot him in his Confederate bottom and the Confederate shot him in his Union top. He didn't get it he got it blasted from both sides. Well, you you cannot hang on to those things of God. We're trying to illustrate here the fact there is no such thing as a line in between those two circles. So we've seen that in what the Bible says in Psalm 1 verse 6. We've seen that. May I say this to you before we read the last verses in that second Corinthians six passage verse seventeen in just a moment? But are we not, think of this, are we not seemingly consistently trying to ask God how much of a percentage of the world we can have and still be okay with Him? How much can we dress like the world and be fashionable really in And still be okay with God? How much beat can we have in our music and still have it be okay with God? How much can we wear our hair like the rock and roll crowd or the Hollywood movie crowd or somebody else like that? How much can we be aware of watching all the garbagey stuff that's popular on the television set and still be okay with God? But what is God's answer to that? 2 Corinthians 6. 17, wherefore? Wherefore, because there's no fellowship with all these other things, wherefore come out from among them and be ye what? Separate, saith the Lord, and what? Touch not the unclean thing, and I'll receive you. In other words, God's answer is: you want to know what percentage? The percentage is zero. None zilch zip nada. That's what it is. God says you can't be hanging on to the world and hanging on to me at the same time. You can't do that. There is no way. There's no middle ground. There's no centrality. Let me show you some other verses that tell us exactly that again as well. Luke 11 23, Jesus said, He that is not with me is against me. And he that gathereth not, scattereth. Does that sound like there's any middle ground there? No. How about Matthew 6, 24? Jesus again said, No man can serve two masters, for either he will love the one and hate the other, else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon or the other ungodly world system. Any middle ground enough? Absolutely not. What about first John 2. 15? Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him Some of you say, well, Brother Webb, does that mean that if I love the world, God doesn't love me anymore? No, it's just the opposite. If you love the world, you don't love him anymore. Maybe we have some single young ladies here in the auditorium that you're you're you know you're hoping one day to be married, but you know years ago it used to be you hoped that one day your knight would arrive on his charger. Nowadays it's in his charger. And they'll come and get on one knee and open a ring box and say to you, I love you, I love you, I love you, and I want to marry you. But let me ask you girls a question. How much does that fellow really love you if day in and day out he continually does things that you have told him over and over and over again that you just can't stand How much does he love you? Most girls these days are very demure. They say, not too much. One girl said, Ah, he doesn't love me at all, preacher. That's more like it. Because the Bible says that we, if we love the world, we don't love God anymore. You can't put it any more clearly than James 4, verse 4. What does it say there? Ye adulterers and adulteresses. Oh, you say, wait a minute, brother Well, I know what an adulterer and adulteress is, that's a married person who's unfaithful to their spouse. Yes, ma'am, remind you that if you and I have put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, we become a part of a uh a member of what is called the bride of Christ. Going to be a marriage supper in heaven one day, amen. But what are we if we are being unfaithful to the Savior to whom we have been betrothed? We are literally spiritual adulterers and adulteresses, and that is exactly That which this is referring to. It says, ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship with the world is enmity. That word means warfare with God. Whosoever therefore will be the friend of the world. And I emphasize that word will and be. Why? Because in the scriptures it is strong enough to say whosoever wills to be. What are you saying? Maybe there's a young person here tonight in this auditorium this evening and you're thinking, well, you know what, I'm not doing bad things, but that's because I grow up I I I'm being raised in a Christian home where my parents are watching over my shoulder. I go to a Bible preaching church where the pastor is watching over my shoulder. And and I may attend a Christian school where the Christian school teachers and principal are watching over my shoulder. I can't do I'm I'm not living those things that are wrong. But When I graduate and I go out on my own and I get my own apartment and I'm living by myself or whatever else, then I'll do this, that or something else God says in his sight, if you wish you could be like the world, you're doing the same things like the world If whosoever will be the friend of the world, in other words, whosoever wills to be, even wishes to be the friend of the world, is the what? Enemy of God. That's pretty strong terminology, isn't it? The enemy of God. Right away somebody said, by the way, that m that must be talking about lost people because a Christian can't be God's enemy. No, look, the book of James wasn't written to the lost. It was written to believers. So God says that if we're fooling us to think that we can hold on to the world with one hand and God with the next thing with the other hand, that we are uh are not getting the best of both worlds. We're not being faithful to to to the Lord Jesus Christ. We're a spiritual adulterer and adulteresses. We are w at warfare with God and we're his enemy. How can we expect God to bless anything about our lives if that's our attitude? So there is no such thing as a line in between those two circles. So we started with the attributes of those things, and then we looked at the uh uh the the actuality of those things and the way things truly are. Now I want us to close by looking tonight at the admonition about these things. There's an admonition that's given to us. God says Verse 17 Thou sayest, I am rich and increased with goods, and have need of nothing, and knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. I counsel thee thatby be gold tried in the fire that thou mayest be rich in white raiment that thou mayest be rich. And that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear, and anoint thine eyes with eyes have that thou mayest see as many as I love, I what Now it's interesting to me the first thing people answer is that I chasten. That's not the first thing God says. Does that reflect that we have maybe a wrong idea of our Heavenly Father? That he is, in some people's minds, as a believer, that he is a mean ogre upstairs with a lightning bolt in one hand and a sledgehammer in the other, waiting for us to step out of line so he can zap us or beat us to death. Is that our Heavenly Father? No But the admonition that the Word of God tells us here is that yes, there is no room, there is no place in God's plan for anybody in the middle, because there is no such thing as a line between those two circles. So therefore, God's admonition is we must choose. He said, I counsel thee to do some things. We must choose What do we need to choose to do? Look again, Revelation 3 verses 19. As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. Be zealous therefore, and what? Repent. Okay, now wait a minute. This morning we talked about what it means to be saved and how we are saved, and the first thing that we keep in mind when we come to Christ for salvation is that we need to what? Repent. What does it mean to repent? Remember, repenting is a change of heart and mind that results by the power of God in a change in our lives. Without repentance there is no salvation. So it's a turning. It's a turning from our sin. It's a turning from our self-righteousness. It's a turning from any other kind of uh a savior than the Lord Jesus Christ as well, and it's a turning to the Lord Jesus Christ as well. That's what it means to repent. And interestingly enough, the Bible says that if we have been uh sold out to the world, the choice we need to make is to be Sold out to God, and the first step in that is what? Repent. Repent of what, Brother Webb? Well, that's another reason why I had you draw the diagram tonight. Why? Because when I asked you to put your X in that circle or or or in the diagram to show where you believe you really are in your relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ, you may have some of you started to put that X in the circle that said sold out to God. But then something said, no, you can't say that. That something was the Holy Spirit of God. Now, may I ask you, what was it, or maybe who was it, that has influenced your life so that you cannot say that you are sold out to God. What is it that had kept you tonight from being able to say, yes, praise the Lord, I am sold out to God as much as I can be? What is it or who is it? That's what you need to repent of. That's what you need to repent of. And so God says, first of all, be zealous therefore, and Repent. That word zealous means to be to hurry up about it. Right? My father-in-law used to say that. He said said, you know, get out of bed and get this done and hurry up about it. Whatever. My wife heard that lots of times when she's grown up. Hurry up about it God says the same thing in this passage of scripture. Repent and hurry up about it. We need to repent. We need to turn back to him away from the things of this world. So, first of all, repent. Then what? Then we need to draw nigh My favorite kind of drawing is not done on a chalkboard with a piece of chalk in my hand. My favorite drawing is found in James 4, verse 8. We sang about earlier tonight. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Draw nigh to God. Why do we need to draw nigh to him? Because our love of something in this world has taken us away from our walk with him Who knows how far away? Until we begin to compare what the Word of God says with what we've been foolishly thinking in our own minds was possible to be Somewhere in the middle. No, if God says there's no middle ground, you must make a choice. Repent, whatever it is, or whoever it was that kept you from being able to say you were sold out to God, that's what you need to get straight. That's what you need to get made right with. That's what you need to get out of your life, perhaps, or whatever else. And then you need to draw nigh. You need to leave the pig pen and come back to the Father. Remember the story of the prodigal son. How he went away with his inheritance and he wasted his substance with riotous living. People are always doing that with what God gave them. They wasted in the things of this world. And then it says, there arose a famine in the land when he had spent all that he had. By the way, you'll spend all that you have in the things of this world, and you'll still be not one step closer to being happy. Because as we said this morning, why is it that all these people in the world, even Christians, are bending over backwards to try to get all the stuff the world says you have to have to be happy when the people of the world who already have all that stuff aren't happy? Ask them, they'll tell you they're not happy. No, the Bible says we need to draw an eye to God. That young man was Was hungry. He wrote a famine arose in the land and he began to be in want. You know what? That's why we need to walk as a sheep with our good shepherd. Why? Because the Bible says in Psalm 23, what's the first thing in the first verse in Psalm 23 The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not what? Want. If you're worried about wanting, it's God you ought to be looking to, not the world. The Lord is my shepherd I shall not want. But this young man began to be in want, and he ended up going and joining himself unto a farmer of pigs. A Jewish boy working for a pig farmer, sitting there on the fence post feeding the pigs, the slime, the slop, what he was feeding the pigs. He was wishing he could eat himself. He was that hungry. And no man gave to him. But then the Bible says, when he came to himself, he must have been one of those people that my father used to talk about when I was growing up, had two brains. One brain was lost, and the other one was out looking for it. Okay? Seriously. Evidently the second one found the first one because it says right there in the scripture of the prodigal son in Luke 15, it says, when he came to himself. So the second brain caught up with the other one. And when he came to himself, he said, You know, my father's servants back home are uh have bread left over from their meals, and I'm sitting here in a pig pen wishing I could eat the pig's food. What did he say then? Oh, woe is me. No, he said, I'm not spending another minute in this pig pen. I'm going home to Dad And he got out of the pig pen. And he started that long road back uh that dusty road before he might have had shoes when he came down. Maybe he didn't have shoes of any kind when he headed back up that way. It was dusty. It's a rough road. But he headed his direction back toward the father there. He drew nigh to his father. And then the picture shifts. From the prodigal son to the porch of the father on the property. And what does it say about him? It says, when he was yet a great way off, his father what? Saw him. Now why is that important? Because folks, honestly, if you had been standing right next to that father on that porch that same day and you had looked down the road at the same time the father did, you would have seen a speck in a dust cloud. He recognized his son that far away. Why? He'd been looking for him. He'd been longing for him. He'd been waiting for him. Why? Because he had a shotgun in the corner of the porch, so if that ingrate ever showed up on the property again, he made his choice. Let him sleep in the bed he made, and off we will march him with the gun. No That's not what he was, was he? Did he say, Well it's about time he came, he can crawl up here on the porch and kiss my shoes, and when he does that, then we'll talk about reconciliation. No, he didn't do that either, did he? It says when he was yet a great way off his father saw him, and that's not all. His father did what else? He ran to him. He closed the distance. And when his son ran up to his father, his father's arms were open. And they embraced. And the son started his memorized speech, Father, I've sinned against heaven, against you. I'm no longer worthy to be thy son. Make me a hired servant. And the father said, Shh, son, quiet. Servants, go bring the ring of a son, put on his finger, bring shoes, put on his feet, bring the robe of a son, put on his back. Go kill the fatted calf. My son, which was dead, is alive again. He was lost, now he's found. And they began to be merry. The father revived his son, rejoiced his son, replenished his son, restored his son. He'd been waiting all that time and his son had finally come home. Folks, our Heavenly Father is not sitting up in heaven with a lightning bolt in one hand and a sledgehammer in the other waiting to zap us or beat us to death the minute we step out of line. But if we'll quit running away from him and turn around and head back to him with humility in our hearts and and and with a prayer of can of of confession and ask his forgiveness. Upon our lips, he will run and close the distance and wrap us up in his arms and love us to death. Choose to repent, choose to draw an eye, then what? Die to self and yield to Christ. Well, they say that, Brother Webb, because they say, well, that's two things. No, they're inseparable in the Word of God. Paul said, I am crucified with Christ, Galatians 2. 20. Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself For me. Look, it's us doing what us wants to do, what we want to do that gets us into trouble in the first place. The only way to get victory over that is to turn the us over to the Lord. And ask him to put us on a cross and bury us in a grave and keep us there from now on. And may Jesus Christ be the one who lives in and through us. That's dying to self and yielding your life to Christ. Romans chapter 6, verse 11 and following says, Likewise Recognize yourself to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, neither yielding your members and instruments of righteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God as those that are and your members and instruments of righteousness unto God. You and I have to make a choice to do that. It's us that gets us in trouble with God in the first place. We need to ask Him to deal with us. Get us off the cross. Put us in a grave. Raise a tombstone over your heart tonight and say, Lord, from this night on, may I die from this night on. May Jesus Christ be the one who lives and works in and through me. And say, Well, what do I do with these hands and these feet? If I die, if I yield what what am I going to do with all that? Paul said, I thought you'd never ask. Romans twelve, one and two. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice holy and acceptable unto God Which is your reasonable service, and be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Die to self, yield to Christ tonight That's the answer to your problem. You must make a choice. You have to choose to do that. That's the admonition. You say, Well, Brother Webb, what if I'm not going to choose? I'm not going to make any decision. I'm just not going to make any decision. No, look. When you walk out of the doors Of this auditorium, you will have made a decision. If you didn't say yes to God tonight, you said no to him. There's no neutral. There's no neutral, remember? There's no line in between those two circles. You can't Can't cut yourself out of the decision. You will make a decision one way or the other before you walk out of this room tonight. God says, if you don't choose, I will. If you don't choose, I will. Revelation 3 verse 19 again. As many as I love, I what? Rebuke. Rebuke. What do you do if you have a little child at your house, a little toddler, and that toddler starts toddling over toward the stove, the burner that's on, with their hand out? Do you step back and say, ooh, let's watch. This will be educational? No. You're gonna run over there and you're gonna say, hey, hey, hey, hey. Sweetheart, don't touch that. That's hot. No, no, no. Do you understand? Okay, okay, great. You go back to what you're doing. You turn around, look over your shoulder, they're heading for the stove again. Now you go beat them to death, right? No, you may run over and get between them in the stove, right in front of them. Hey listen, honey, do not touch that. How it hurts you don't Don't want to do that, you understand? Okay, good. You turn around and walk away, look over your shoulder, they're headed back for the stove again. Then you go beat them to death, right? No, you might go over there and paddle them on the padding, got put on their posterior for that purpose. But even then, why do you do that? Well, I'm just mad that child won't listen to what to say. No, that's not why you do it. You do it because if you let the kid go there and do what they want to do, they're going to damage themselves maybe for the rest of their lives. And no parent that loves their child is going to let that child do something like that. So God is the ultimate parent. God says you have to make a choice. If you don't re uh if you don't uh repent and draw nigh and die to self and yield to Christ, then I will make the move, I will make the choice, I will rebuke. And if you don't listen to the rebuke, then I will chasten. And the Bible says, Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous but grievous, nevertheless it worketh the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto all that are exercised thereby, Hebrews twelve tells us. In fact, earlier in that same chapter it says in verses 5 to 8, Ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children. My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. For whom the Lord loveth, did you catch that? Whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth and scourgeth, one of the next two words every son whom he receiveth If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons, for, rhetorical question, what son is there whom the father chasteneth not? Which one doesn't he chasten? There isn't one. He just told you in the verse ahead of that he chases every son. Then it says, but if you are without chastisement whereof all our partakers. So get that three times in three verses in a row, God says he chases every son and we receive it. There isn't a son he doesn't chase it, because he just told you he chases every son and we receive it And he says, all are partakers of that chastisement. Now maybe there's somebody here tonight, maybe you're a teenager, maybe you're an adult, and you're saying, hey, Brother Webb, I'm getting away with my sin. I've been living in disobedience and rebellion against God for a long time, and God hasn't rebuked me. God is not chasing me. Well look, friend, you're not getting away with anything as a child of God. You're not a child of God. You're not a child of God. How dare you say that to me, Brother Webb. I didn't say it. God said it. He said, if ye be without chastisement where of all our partakers, then are ye bastards and not Sons. And if you can say that you've been living in rebellion and disobedience against God and God is not rebuked or chasing you, what you need tonight is not revival. What you need tonight is redemption. You need to get saved. Because if you are a truly born-again child of God, God will only let his children go so far before he deals with them. And only let them go s uh uh so much farther beyond that to the point where he might even take their lives. That happened in the day of the Lord. Remember what Paul what what uh what the Bible says Paul said about getting the Lord's supper unworthily? He said, for this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many what? Sleep. What's that word sleep mean? It means death And the reason why I I there are a lot of other messages I would rather preach than the message I've preached to you tonight. It's because it scares me to death when God lays that message on my heart to preach, because there may be somebody in that congregation to whom I'm preaching right now, to whom God is giving his last rebuke. Before his hand of chastening will come. And you don't want to be chastened by God. He is a loving heavenly father, but he does deal with his children. There was a young man who was a missionary son in the church in which I grew up. They came home from furlough for a few years. and the missionaries put their son in public school r rather than in the Christian school that some of the rest of us went to. He was a a handsome young man, he was a muscular guy, he was athletic, had a winning smile Had long eyelashes, the girls all wish they had. Had a good personality and outgoing, and so he was elected that year, that they came home, he was elected to be the president of the youth department But as I said, he went to public school rather than Christian school, and when he got there, he got into being friends with some fellows who liked to soup their cars up and drink liquor and do both at the same time. And he was out with a car load of fellows in his car that was souped up and they were driving at high speed when he went around a curve, lost control of the car, and hit a bridge abutment at high speed. He broke his jaw, he broke his leg, he lost an arm. And worse, I think, than all of that, he killed an unsaved fellow that was in the car with him I can still remember the Sunday night when he came back to youth department, asked the youth pastor if he could speak to the teens. And he stood there in front of all of us with tears streaming down his face as he asked us to forgive him for his disobedience. He stood there in front of us Propped up on a crutch, missing an arm, leg in a cast, jaw was wired shut. The only way he could eat was through a straw at the time And he pled with the youth department to forgive him for having been the terrible example. He said, I thought I could fool around with the world and come back and serve God and get away with going back and forth. But he said, I realize tonight it doesn't work. It doesn't work. I can't do it. He asked us to forgive him. Do you think we forgave him? Oh yeah, there were a lot of tears in that room that night. But let me ask you, did that put his arm back on? Or did it bring back to life that unsafe fellow he sent to an eternity in a lake of fire? No. Can you imagine living the rest of your life? with the knowledge that you sent an unsafe friend into eternity without Christ God says, as many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. God loves you. He doesn't want to deal with you, but he will because he loves you. You can make a choice and avert all of that tonight by confessing that sin to God. 1 John 1 9, if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us from our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Come back to Him tonight. I think of two hymns in the hymn book that are very appropriate to the message tonight. One of them says, softly and tenderly, Jesus is calling, calling for you and for me. See on the portals. He's waiting and watching, watching for you and for me. Come home, come home. Ye who are weary, come home. Earnestly, fervently, Jesus is calling, calling, oh sinner, come home. The other song is one that is the response song to that, that we ought to sing tonight if we're not sold out to God, and that's I've wandered far away from God. Now I'm coming home. The paths of sin too long I've trod. Now I'm coming home. Coming home. Coming home. Nevermind to roam. Open wide thine arms of love. Lord, I'm coming home. Tonight, if you're not sold out to God, you must make a choice. May it be to be sold out completely to Christ from this day on. Let's bow our heads together for prayer this evening.