With your Bibles, please, and go with me to Ephesians chapter number five. Ephesians chapter number five, and I'd like to read Several verses here in your hearing, Ephesians chapter 5. Read verses 14, 15, and 16. When you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand with me this morning. Ephesians chapter 5 and verse number 14. Notice what the Bible says. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest And arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. See then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. Redeeming the time because the days are evil. If I do nothing else this morning, I want to sow this one verse in your heart, and that's verse number 16. And it says again, redeeming the time because the days are evil. The Lord helping me this morning, I want to preach on this thought, making the most of a limited opportunity. Making the most of a limited opportunity. Father, again we bow in Jesus' name, and Lord, we're so grateful that we can look to you. And Lord, as we've opened your word, we thank you this morning that every word in this book is true. It's your word. And Lord, give us ears to hear your word. Give us hearts that'll love and follow you. Do thy work, Lord. We'll give you the glory. We wait upon you. Pray your will be done now. In Jesus' strong name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. You want an outline for that passage? I'll just give you briefly something that you can study. You see in verse number 14 a call. The Bible says, Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. Now this is a call of authority because he saith, it's the Lord. The Lord is saying, awake. It's an arousing call. You'll see that in the verse, because he he tells us awake. That means to to put off sleep, to get up, open your eyes, to be alert. And that it's an alighting call. It's it's a call of light. He says, Arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. You know the beauty of following the Lord Jesus is realizing that you're not walking in darkness. We may live in a dark age, and we may live in dark times, but thank God Jesus is still the light of the world. And he's the light of his people. And the Bible says if you follow him, you'll walk in you'll walk in light. You're not walking in darkness. This world is walking in darkness today, and yet I'm grateful God's people can still have light. Illustrated back in the Old Testament, when God sent darkness, thick darkness, all across the land of Egypt The Bible says they couldn't see their hand in front of their face. But all the people of Israel had light in their dwelling In other words, God said, I'm going to make a difference between those who belong to me and those who don't belong to me. And those who belong to me have light. Our Lord calls, we see his call. But then notice the command. Here, again, just by way of introduction, here, this outline, you can take it, study it. We see a command in verse 15. That command is this. See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. You notice here this command is one of attention. He says, See then that ye He's calling our attention to something. He's saying, you make sure that you walk circumspectly. If we could just worry as much about our own self as we do everybody else, we'd be okay. We'd be a whole lot better off, wouldn't we? And then we see an accuracy here in this command. He says walk circumspectly And that's what that word means. It means to walk accurately. You say, well, how does a person walk accurately? We walk accurately when we walk biblically, when we walk according to the Word of God. And then we'll see an awareness here. Something we need to be aware of, he says, not as fools, but as wise. We need to be aware that we can have a saved soul and a foolish life. We can be saved and on our way to heaven and live as fools. That's what he's saying here. And making us aware of the fact that That we must walk wisely. And then he tells us in verse number sixteen, here is a concern. Here is a concern. And that concern is time. Redeeming the time, because the days are evil. We see something here that affects us all. Time affects us all. Nobody escapes time Time takes its toll. You heard that said? Time takes its toll? Well, that's the reality of this thing. It affects us all But I see something here I need to accomplish, and that's this thing of redeeming. Boy, that's a word you ought to study. The word redeeming here means to buy back. It's a tradesman term. It's a merchantman's term. It's the term of a man who works in the market and he's looking for every opportunity to get the advantage. He's buying back. He's making the most of. Then I see something added here, something additional. The Bible says, because the days are evil. And if they were evil then. How much more are they now? Those were evil days then, and the Bible the Bible says they were. The days are evil. Well, we've progressed, haven't we? Not in the right direction, but certainly we have gone further down the road of evil. I want you to go to that text again, and I want you to look with me at this verse. Redeeming the time because the days are evil. Would you go back to a place in the Psalm, Psalm 90, and look at this verse with me? I want to look at three verses and then we'll get into our message. But I want you to see what the Bible has to say about this thing of time. Psalm 90 and verse number 10. The days of our years are three score years and ten. That's seventy years. And if by reason of strength they be four score years, that's eighty years. Yet is their strength, labor, and sorrow. Notice this, for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. You think about that. It is soon cut off, and we fly away. Isn't it strange that we look at time as if it's an unlimited commodity? And yet the reality is that only so much of it has been deposited into your life and it's running out every day. Every day that we live is another day past and another opportunity gone. It'll soon be cut off. I want you to look at another verse with me in the Bible and go to the New Testament. It's the book of James. And in the book of James, we see here in verse number, or chapter number four. James chapter number four and verse number fourteen. Now again, this is the Word of God. This is the Bible telling me what I should view time as and how I should see it for what it is. In James chapter 4, verse number 14, whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. Look at this question: for what is your life? What is your life? The Bible answers that question by saying it is even a vapor. That appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. You notice how similar that is to Psalm 90? Soon cut off and we fly away. James 4, it vanisheth away, it disappears, it 's gone, it's gone quickly. One more place, please. Hebrews chapter 9. Hebrews chapter nine and verse number twenty seven. The Bible says, and as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment. It's appointed unto men once to die. You see, the point of all of these verses is this. Time is short. Life at best is brief. You read the Bible and you you read about men that lived long lives. Think about Methuselah, the oldest man in the Bible. Over 900 years he lived on this earth. But what was that in light of eternity? You look at men like Moses who lived a hundred and twenty years, but what was that? The Bible tells us again that the general range that man lives, is that uh three score and ten, or if by reason of strength four, somewhere in that seventy to eighty range And yet what is all of that? It it makes it clear that soon it is cut off and we fly away. In light of the truth, we need to redeem the time because the days are evil. Redeeming the time. You say, preacher, how does a man or woman go about redeeming the time? How can we buy back the time? Can you put a reverse on time? Don't you wish you could? And don't you wish you could go backwards sometimes? And there are times that I wished I could go forwards and over uh skip over some things, but Uh if we could just go back, you know, we often think that, but the reality is you can't. But yet we can redeem the time We can make the most of the opportunity that is afforded us. You say, preacher, how does a person go about redeeming the time? I want to be very simple and straightforward this morning. You pray that God will use His Word to speak to some heart that may not be ready in redeeming the time. Let me say number one, just simply this: be ready. Be ready. That's how you redeem the time. Be ready. The Bible says in Amos chapter 4 and verse number 12, prepare to meet thy God. That was the command of the prophet. He said, you know what he's saying? Can I say it just very simply? Be ready. Be ready. The Bible talks about being ready and tells us how. In John chapter number 14, I want you to look at this with me, please And see what the Bible has to say about this thing of being ready. And let me say this there is preparation that is required. There's preparation that is required. You've got to get ready. You must be ready. John chapter 14 and verse number 1. The Bible says, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. And whither I go, you know, and the way you know. And Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest, and how can we know the way? Now Thomas got it. He understood that the Lord Jesus was going to prepare a place. And here's what the Lord said. He said, I'm going to prepare a place. And in essence, he's saying, You need to prepare for me to come. And Thomas said, How do I prepare? What is it I do to prepare? Look at the verse. Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Do you see the preparation? The preparation is to, as John puts it in John chapter 1, verse number 12, but as many as received him To them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Preparation is getting right with the Lord Jesus Christ, receiving him as your Savior. There's no other way. You say, well, I I know what I've got to do. I've got to go through all of these religious exercises I've been told. And my friend, none of those have power to save you. You can light candles and be lost. You can be baptized and be lost. You can be a church member and be lost. You can pray prayers and be lost. There's only one Savior. His name is Jesus Christ. You must be prepared. There's preparation required. You gotta get ready. Be ready. How do you redeem the time? Now, friend, have you ever thought about your life? I was thinking this this week. My life is like an hourglass. And if I could have found a big enough one, I would have brought it. To turn turn that thing over. But here's what I was afraid of. If it ran out of sand, you figure I'd run out of time. So I didn't want to cut your ears off before I ever got started. But when that sand is running out, that's a picture of your time. That's a picture of your life. And every one of us have a clock that's ticking and an hourglass that is emptying. And our lives are quickly passing. Job talked about man being born of woman a few days. That's what he said. It's just a few days. My life is a short thing. Someone said it like this that time is our preparation for eternity. That life is a dress rehearsal, it's a dressing room, it's the getting ready spot for all of eternity. There's preparation that's required. But let me remind you that as we think about getting ready and being ready for this thing, redeeming the time because the days are evil. Can I remind you that there is a planned meeting? There's a planned meeting in the future. There are two such places men will meet God. The first is the great white throne. The Bible says this about it, and you might want to look at it in Revelation chapter number 20. Revelation chapter number 20 and verse 11. John's peering into the future here. And he sees what will come. Revelation chapter twenty, verse eleven says, And I saw a great white throne. And him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. Now who are these? These are the lost. These are those that have rejected Jesus Christ Small and great, doesn't matter who they are, doesn't matter what position they had, doesn't matter what kind of power they had on earth, small or great, everyone will stand before God lost at this great white throne And the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. And the sea gave up their dead which were in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them. And they were judged every man according to their works. And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. Listen to these words, please. And whosoever Was not found written in the book of life, was cast in the lake of fire. Those are sad words. That's a sobering truth. Every lost person Every individual who rejected the Lord Jesus. That's a that whosoever, that's a broad that means everyone, everyone that made that decision to say no to the Lord Jesus. Whosoever Was not found written in the book of life, was cast into the lake of fire. I remind you, friend, that there is a planned meeting. Every atheist who said there is no God will stand here. Every agnostic who said, I don't know if there's a God or not will stand here. Every church member who never got saved will stand here. Everyone who rejected the only way to heaven Everyone who who who resisted the Lord Jesus and said, No, I'm not interested. I don't want you to be my Savior. My friend, can I remind you that there's no neutral ground? You either receive Him or you reject Him. There's a planned meeting. Dear brother or sister, can I remind you that every saved person will stand as well, not at the great white throne But we will stand at what the Bible calls the judgment seat of Christ. In First Corinthians chapter 3, verse 11, we read this for other foundation Can no man lay than that is laid which is Jesus Christ. Now, if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble , Every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. But if any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved yet so as by fire. Now, friend, I've heard a lot of preaching on the judgment seat of Christ, and most of it neglects the fact that this will be a time of loss. There will be loss. Wood, hay, and stubble, all those worthless things All of those things that we did that had no eternal significance, all of that's going to burn up. You stop and think about it, believer, that you and I are quickly going to this place of meeting. This is what the Bible says. There is a planned meeting. And either man will stand at the great white throne or the saved will stand at the judgment seat of Christ, but either way will face the Lord. We'll face the Lord. We need to be ready. We need to be ready. Let me say, notice also in this thing of being ready Is there preparation required and there's a planned meeting, but there is a person that we will face? Amos said, Prepare to meet thy God. Thy God. Prepare to meet thy God. Friend, listen, if you'll ever get a hold of this, it'll help you in your life. When you begin to understand that the one to whom you'll account is the Lord. Paul said it like this to the Corinthian believers. He said it's a small thing, and I'm just paraphrasing obviously. He said it's a small thing that I'm judged by the likes of you. Because I'm going to face God. And if you'll get a hold of that, you'll realize that there's something more important than pleasing men. It's pleasing the Lord. Because every single one of us are going to give an account of ourselves to the Lord. I'm not going to answer for you. And you're not going to answer for me, but we are going to answer for ourselves. And we're going to face God. How different would our lives be if we live them knowing we'll face God Think about your life this week. The words you said, the things you did, the places you went, the actions. Think about how different it would be if you lived it in light of the fact that I will face God. Solomon wrote the book of Ecclesiastes. I've been reading in that book in my personal life, and and uh all through that book it's sort of a depressing thing because he says Vanity is vanity, all is vanity. All the the conclusion he comes to is that there's really no nothing significant, there's nothing uh really worth living for, but here's the key under the sun. Under the sun. But when you get to the last chapter and he talks about old age. Now I believe, and you can believe what you want, but I believe that Solomon wrote this book as an old man. His heart's been turned. He's been away from God. Solomon was a backslider. He he got away from the Lord, but his wives, the Bible says, turned his heart. He began to worship idols and And uh even though he was the wisest man in the world, he did the dumbest things you can imagine. And yet here he is, and he's at as an old man, he's talking about how the timbers are creaking in his house. He's talking about his old bones and how the grinders cease. His teeth have fallen out. He's getting to be an old man. And he's talking about all of the fun things that come with getting older. And he gets down to the very last verse, last two verses, and says, let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. What's the conclusion? What'd he come to? After living his whole life and experiencing everything a man could experience, whether it be wine, women, and song, he lived it up. And he tried everything under the sun, and he came to the conclusion, fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. A man that's not right with God's not living. Do you know that? If you're not right with God, you're not living You're existing, you're breathing, your heart's beating, you're organically alive, but you may be spiritually dead in your trespasses and sin. No one is ready to live except he's first ready to die. A young man passed away. We don't know how, whether it was uh a physical thing or an accident. All we know is they found his body in his overturned canoe. And they his Bible had washed ashore. And Corey had written in the front of that Bible Having only gotten that thing about six months previous, and in those early days given his heart and life to the Lord Jesus. He wrote in the front of that Bible, You're not ready to live unless you're ready to die. And I thought, what a testimony. Here is a young man. He went out not thinking he was going to die, but he did. But thank God he had life, eternal life. And the Bible says that a man who believes on the Lord Jesus Christ will never die. You know why? Because, my friend, you'll just be translated. You'll leave this old veil of tears and enter into the land of glory, our home, our forever home. Be ready. Redeeming the time. The days are evil. Redeeming the time. Are you ready? The Bible tells us to be ready, for in such an hour as you think not, behold, the Son of Man cometh. Be ready. Be ready. I mean by that, my friend, if you're not saved, be saved today. You need to be saved. Everything's been done that can be done. The Lord Jesus died on the cross The Bible says, for our sin, and according to the Scripture. The Lord Jesus shed his blood. Why did he shed his blood? Because the sacrifice was required. And a cleansing had to take place. And the only way your sin can be put away is to be put away by the precious blood of Jesus Christ. So, my dear friend, you see in the Word of God that you need to be saved. Today is the day of salvation. Don't put it off. Don't play games. My friend, the reality is redeeming the time, the days are evil. You and I have a limited amount Some of you are living on God's rich mercy. That breath you're breathing is a merciful gift from God that's keeping you out of hell itself. That's all it is. Every time you suck in that air, think of this mercy. You breathe it out, you're breathing mercy. God's been good to you. He's letting your heart keep beating. He's kept you on this side of eternity. Why? Because, my friend, when your eyes close in death in your state right now, you'll open them in a place called hell. You realize how serious that is? I sat in my office and watched the multitudes of cars drive up and down the road going about their day. And likely very few thinking about eternity. But how many of those dear souls will be in eternity before the rising of the sun and they're not ready? They're not ready. Oh, they're soaking in the sunshine and enjoying God's creation, but the reality is they're living on borrowed time. They're living on sheer mercy and goodness. Their life is like a slender thread, and all it's got to do is be clipped. And it doesn't take much to clip it. Be ready. But can I say something else in this text? Redeeming the time because the days are evil, we need to be right. We just need to be right. Ephesians 5 15 says, See then ye that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. We ought to be right. There's an accurate walk here that is described. It's the circumspect walk. It means walking according to the rules It's walking the way the Lord would you say, preacher, what are the rules? And by the way, they're not yours nor are they mine. They're not in my hand to interpret. They're in God's hand to give. God's given his word. How do I live my life? By this. By this. I'm forever amazed at the attempts that are made to make this fit us instead of making us fit this. You know, the Bible tells me I'm the bow to the yoke. And the yoke is God's word. The yoke doesn't adjust to fit me, I adjust to fit the yoke. And we live in a day where it's right popular actually. In fact, it's quite prevalent anymore to say, well, I know the Bible says this, but this is how I feel. Or this is what I think. Or this is this is how I want it to be. How many of you know you may want it to be a certain way, but you can't make that happen? You may want it to say a certain thing, but that's not going to make it it's not going to change it. It's not going to change it. My dear mother, she was a master at this thing. She'd go to the doctor and he'd tell her what was wrong, and then and then she would tell us, well But I think this is what he meant. And so it got so bad there I I said to Elizabeth, I said, she won't let me go in there, she won't listen. But you go with her and and you you let the doctor tell you what's happening and then then tell us And I began to listen and I noticed there was a vast difference, a vast difference between what she was hearing and communicating, and what he was saying. You know why she didn't like what he said. She didn't like what he said. I I asked her one time, I said, Mom, why did you uh why did you uh tell us this about a certain thing? And when the doctor said something different, oh she said I I just didn't like what he said. That's why I didn't change what he said. Right? Now folks, uh you and I may not like this, but we can't change this. Let's just be honest that that what the Bible has given uh to us has been given to us by inspiration of God. It's not the creation of man. It's a gift from Almighty God. And its intention is that I might walk accurately, I might walk circumspectly. Friend, the Bible may rub you the wrong way, but it's not for you to change the rubbing of the word. It's for you to change the direction that you're going. There's an accurate walk. There's an aim in our walk. In 1 Thessalonians 4:1, Paul wrote this to those believers: He said that ye might walk and please God. That's what he said. He wants you to walk and please God. What's the aim in my walk? What am I hitting at? What's my goal? My goal is to please the Lord. That's my goal. And my friend, if you make that your aim, you're being right, you're doing right to please the Lord. How many times do we live? Not just to please ourselves, but perhaps to please others. What a snare that is. The fear of man bringeth a snare. But whoso putteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. I'm saying that we've only got one to please. You've got one to please. And and I was thinking of that again. I've got it written in my Bible In Acts chapter number four, where the disciples are going up to the temple at the hour of prayer. And that man's sitting there and he's begging for alms. You remember that story, the account? He's calling out, he's wanting some alms, he's wanting something to be given to him. And Peter said, Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have, give I thee in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. He said, I don't have silver and gold to give you, but I got something better. The Lord Jesus Christ. Our aim, my friend, is to please him. He's the better thing. He's the better one. Boy, God gave me that. I had an opportunity to preach in Ottawa, and uh that church, God had just blessed it wonderfully. Nineteen nationalities made up that assembly of believers And I I remember uh getting to preach there that Sunday morning, I was scared to death, and I was sick. I was sick all night long physically because of the responsibility that I felt on my shoulders. And in the early hours of the morning, God gave me that verse and reminded me that I only have one in the audience to please. And may God help me remember that as I stand before I only have one in this audience to please. And it's not you and it's not me, but it's him. And you need to be right, and I need to be right with God. We need to aim in our walk to please the Lord. And then there needs to be an agreement in our walk John said it like this in 1 John 1, verse 6: If we say we have fellowship and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. If we say, we can say whatever we want to say. We can say we're right with God. We can say that we're where we ought to be. But if we're walking in darkness, we're lying, and we do not the truth. There's got to be an agreement. You know, sometimes, quite honest with you, I wish Christians wouldn't tell people they're Christians. Especially if they're not not going to live like it. It makes it difficult. It makes it a diff when you try to talk to someone and try to tell them about the Lord and they know someone who doesn't walk right and they they they can't justify, a lost man can't justify in his mind. Why Christians live so wobbly and wicked lives. So you've got to try to explain, and of course you're trying to explain something they can't comprehend. My point is, there needs to be an agreement in our walk. What I say and what I do can align one with another. How? By walking in obedience to the Lord. And the Bible says if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. So what do we do? If we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Be right. Redeeming the time. Can I say to you that what petty little thing that's got you out of sorts is not worth grieving God the Holy Ghost over? Not worth it. It's not worth it in a thousand worlds. The Bible tells us to grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby we are sealed unto the day of redemption. And I don't doubt with my whole heart that the Holy Spirit is often and frequently grieved over things that make no matter in time or especially in eternity. Be right. I'm talking about redeeming the time. Stay right with God. Stay close to Him. Be as God's children. Be where you ought to be spiritually. My pastor used to say to all the young preachers, be ready to preach, pray, sing, shout, or die at a moment's notice. Always be ready. Always be ready. Always be right with God. God's made provision for that Oh, I'm not telling you that you'll live sinless. There's no way on this side of eternity. But I am telling you that there's a way to stay right, and that's to stay clean and confess and close to the Lord. John R. Rice, think what you do of him, that don't matter. But John R. Rice used to do something that has impressed my heart when I read about it. He would bow and pray before he would speak, and he would often take a piece of tissue paper and he would write all the things that God brought to his mind that grieved the Lord that he had done or said. And he would take it and he would get on his knees and he'd say, Now Lord, I uh I'm sorry, I did this, I said this, I acted this way. God, would you forgive me? And he would get it under the blood, and then he said he'd take it and throw it away and flush it. Flush it away. Somebody said, Why'd you flush it? He says, It's nobody's business but God's. And that's true. But the reality is, my friend, he was serious about staying right with God. Why do we not get serious? You know. It seems like we only get serious when we have to. We're forced to. I've sat several times this week with the dying. They know it You know I thought about this. The only difference between them and me is they know it and I don't. I'm dying too, you're dying to. I don't know when. They've got more detail and info at the moment. But we often don't get serious until we have to. And suddenly we're faced with this thing, and and we're we're trying to get right with God and get right with people. And my friend, wouldn't it be a blessed thing if we just stayed that way, if we just lived right and stayed right with God? It's not because we can't, it's because we won't. Be right. Let me close with this. Redeeming the time because the days are evil. I believe to redeem the time we need to be ready. I believe to redeem the time we need to be right. And last of all, we need to be real. The Bible says that Timothy had a faith unfeigned. Will you look at that with me, First Timothy chapter one? This will be our last text. First Timothy chapter one And the Bible says, now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart. And of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned. Do you know that means unmasked? See, in that day when a play was put on It wasn't elaborate like it is now. And you might have a person play three parts, and they would just simply switch masks On the stage in front of everyone, they'd put a new mask on. And so they would switch parts by changing masks. You know what Paul's saying to Timothy? Don't go around changing your mask. Be real, a faith that's unfeigned. You'll notice here the place of concern, a pure heart. He said, now the end of the commandment is charity. out of a pure heart. Now, although my Bible says very clearly that my heart is deceitful and desperately wicked and no man can know it, I'm glad there's a God in heaven who can give me a new heart, and that new heart can be a pure heart, made pure by the work of the Spirit of God in the blood of Jesus Christ. Not only do I see a place of concern, but I see a peaceful conscience. Having noticed this, now the end of the commandment is charity of a pure heart and of a good conscience. Someone said a conscience is a poor guide, but it is a good thermometer It's a poor God. Your conscience can be distorted. You can sear your conscience. You can pervert your conscience. But a good conscience is like a good thermometer to tell you what the temperature really is. And it can read the situation. And he says here, Timothy, keep a good conscience. And you know About five times in Paul's ministry he made the statement, I have a good conscience, I have a clean conscience. He understood that his he he was doing what was right. He had a pure heart and a pure motive and a peaceful conscience. And here is a practical concern. Faith that's unfeigned. A faith that doesn't have to wear a disguise. Dear brother, sister, the Lord Jesus is so wonderful and the salvation he gives is so powerful. But it doesn't need to be masked up. If it has to be put on, you need to make sure that you have it on. Too much Christianity shines only on certain days of the week when it ought to govern every step we take. Whether in the light or the dark, whether in the Lord's house or the labors of our life, a pure faith, a faith that's unfeigned. Just be real. Oftentimes we play at this thing when really it's life or death. Serious. Redeeming the time because the days are evil. Life is a passing opportunity. I I just wonder how many are thirty-five and under this morning? Would you raise your hand? It's a few of you. Come on, raise them high if you're thirty-five and under Do you know in a few short years you'll be at the three score and ten? It really will. Oh preacher, I didn't come to hear all that. Well, let me be honest, I didn't come to say all that. But the reality is that we're living we're living with a very limited opportunity. Everybody sitting here? Many, more of life is behind you than is ahead of you. So you tell me what's important. You tell me what really matters. What should we be concerned about? Why why? Why Do we let the trivial things of this life rob us of the eternal things of our precious Lord? Redeeming the time because the days are evil. If you're not saved, I urge you to be saved. You don't have to be in this building to get saved. God doesn't save people on just particular locations. He saves people who do business with him in their heart. With the heart man believeth unto righteousness. And my dear friend, if you're not saved, simply cry out to him, and no plea for mercy will be ignored by our gracious Lord. He'll save you on the spot. You look to him today. He alone can save you. Dear brother and sister, let's get right with God. Let's stop our little games of Christianity and get serious about just living for the Lord Jesus. He's the dearest friend you have. He's the dearest friend you'll ever have. And let's be real. Let's not put on a Christianity. Let's put Christ on. And be like Paul said: nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. May Christ live in us. You let God meet the need of your heart this morning. Mother Dow, would you come with our hymn?