Your Bibles, please, and go with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter number two. And I'd like to read just a handful of verses starting in verse number 15. Luke chapter number 2, verse number 15. We're going to read down to the 19th verse. When you find your place, would you stand with me, please, as we honor the Word of God? In Luke chapter 2 and verse number 15, the Bible reads, And it came to pass as the angels were gone away from them into heaven. The shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. Verse 16 says, and they came with haste. I don't know if you caught the shepherd's movement this morning. I turned to Brother Er Hurst and I said, that's haste. They went from here to here, and boy, they were booting or they were moving. That's haste. And that's what these shepherds did, according to the word of God They came with haste, and they found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child And all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds. Verse 19 is my text. I want you to notice it, please. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. She kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. But Lord helping me this evening, I want to preach on Mary's heart. Mary's heart. Our Father, we bow in Jesus' name, and we're grateful that we can come to your throne of grace. And we come tonight, Lord, very much aware of our great need. But yet, Lord, we're encouraged because of your greater ability to meet that need. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us now from your word. Lord, hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus Please do a work in each of us, Lord, for thou knowest us. And Lord, you know the need of every heart. We give you the glory for that. And Lord, we'll just trust you now and pray your will be done. Help us from the book, and we'll praise you for it For we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. I'd like for you to look at verse 19 again. And think with me what was going on in the heart of Mary. The Bible says again that Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. And by the way, this wasn't the last time that she would do such a thing. If you read on in the chapter, you come down to this episode when Jesus was twelve years old. And our Bible tells us that they had gone up to keep the Passover and had started back home and thought that he was in the company. But as they traveled a ways, they realized he's not here. And so they returned. And as they go back to the temple, You know the story here, the account. They found him, verse 46 says, in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them and asking them questions. And all that heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers. And when they saw him, they were amazed. And his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing. And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? Wished ye not that I must be about my father's business? And they understood not the saying which he spake unto them, and he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was subject unto them. Look at this. But his mother kept all these sayings in her heart. Now, you know the Bible lets us see what is otherwise invisible. The Bible lets you see what you cannot see had the Bible not spoken on the subject. You and I, we say things like, Well, if I know my heart. Truth is, the Bible says we don't know our heart. That our heart's deceitful and desperately wicked. We don't know our heart. I don't know your heart. I can't look into that portion of secrecy and see what no man can see. I don't know my heart. You can't see my heart. I can't see your heart But here's what I do know. The Bible tells us that the Word of God is a discerner of the thoughts and the intent of the heart. Now, I may not be able to read your heart, but the Bible can. And not only does the Bible read our heart, but the Lord Jesus knows our heart. Now, what we have recorded in the Bible is a glimpse into the heart of Mary. We get to see Mary's heart. We get to see something going on that nobody else would know had the Lord not told us right here in the Bible. In fact, you know the a lot of the Bible is just that. It lets us see what you can't see, except it tells us. There's another realm. There's another world, if you will, a spiritual world. And that that realm is invisible to you and I. We don't know what's going on there except for what we read here in the Bible. And we read about the workings of God and the workings of the Spirit of God and that that unseen world that is very much real but it's invisible, yet we know some things about it out of the scriptures. Well, we're looking at Mary's heart. And by the way, God is most interested in what's going on in your heart. That's his place of activity. That's where he's concerned. You know, don't we often get so worked up about everything people see, men see, what's visible on the outside? And oftentimes we put so much emphasis on what is seen by man, forgetting it is God who sees what's in the heart. And that's what's important to him. You know, Mary, as we think about her, she's an interesting individual. We know according to the word of God she was a sinner. You say, preacher, how do you know that? Because when she sung her song, she magnified God my Savior. That's what she said. And last time I checked, the only people that need a savior are sinners. Sinners need a savior. And Mary was a sinner. Uh Mary would would go on to to give birth to more children. She would she would have more children. We we know that because The brethren and sisters of the Lord Jesus did not believe on him initially. And by the way, the Bible makes it clear that she had more children. Mary's an interesting individual, but Mary was a chosen vessel, meaning that God picked her to do something that was special. Her body would be the vehicle through which the Lord Jesus would come to this earth And I don't believe the Lord just chose any old body to do that very thing. I believe he chose her on purpose. And you say, preacher, why'd he choose her? I believe he chose her because of her heart. Would you note some things with me about this text? It says again that Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. I want you to notice number one, the activity of God. Mary's heart was keen on what God was doing. The Bible says she kept all these things. What things? Well, one, what the shepherds had told her happened to them. Can you imagine she's just given birth and wrapped that baby and put it in the manger and all of a sudden these shepherds come running in And they say, we were just watching our sh sheep out in the our flocks out in the field, and these angels came and they gave us a message. And they told us that a Savior 's been born. It's good news for all men. And they're, I mean, they're thrilled. Can you imagine? I bet their eyes were big as saucers. Because the angels had appeared and they heard and they said, We heard the angel singing, Glory to God in the highest. And they came and they told her these things. She kept those things in her heart. Now, this wasn't unusual because Mary had already been paid a visit. And the angel had told her that that which was conceived in her was of the highest. And and communicated the message to her. Joseph had had been having a dream, and in the night the Lord communicated to him and said, Fear not to take Mary. And I'm sure he told Mary that See, there was a lot of unusual things going on, but Mary kept these things in her heart. She was aware that God was working. God was doing something. Can I ask you a question? What's God doing in your life? What kind of activity You know what? Oftentimes we're so busy doing what we want to do, and we say, Now, Lord, come along with us. But it ought to be the other way around. The Lord's the one working and we ought to be listening. Now, Lord, what is it that you want me to do? Remember when Saul was saved on the road to Damascus? First question out of his mouth was, Lord, who art thou? And then the next question was, What wilt thou have me to do? Lord, what are you doing and and what is it you want me to do? See the activity of God. Know this, if you're a Christian, if you're saved by the grace of God, You've put your faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ and you've been born again. God's doing something in your life. God's working around your life. And sometimes our agenda conceals God's activity. Now Lord, I'm going to do this, this, this, and this. Some years ago I prayed, Lord, give me somebody to talk to about the Lord, you know, somebody to witness to And then I went about my day. And as my day unfolded, I had five or six things I needed to do. And one of them was to get a haircut And so I went in there and this barber, I I I love him. I still talk to him from time to time. And uh he he would uh he he could he could talk the ear off of a mule. I never heard anybody talk so much And and I was in a hurry and I wanted to get to my next things I had to do. And I'm thinking while he's cutting, if you would would cut more and talk less, this would go a whole lot faster. And I'm running through my agenda. I've got my agenda. And he's talking about and I wasn't even paying attention. He talked so much, I just caught every third word, because you didn't have to answer. You just had to just act like you were listening. He keep talking. And all of a sudden, he said something about death. And I didn't really pay a lot of attention to it initially. And he kept talking and talking and finally he asked a question. He said, Well what do you think happens when somebody dies? And just like that it was like the Lord woke me up out of a fog. I had my agenda. I had my plans. Get my hair cut, get out of here, go do this, this, this, this, this, and I had all of that laid out. But you know what? God was doing something. God was at work in that man's heart. And some things that happened in his life that had brought him to ask the question, what does happen when you die? Man, I had to pray before I answered and said, Lord, forgive me for being so caught up in my agenda that I about about missed your activity, that you're doing something here, and I don't even have a clue of what's going on. But you see, Mary had a heart that recognized God was up to something. She understood that the baby she was perhaps holding in her arms was not just any ordinary baby. She understood that listen, these shepherds have come. I don't know who they are. I don't know their names. She she don't have a clue about who they are, but they've come and they said, hey, we were out there and this and and The angels communicated and spoke to us, and we're just here to tell you what they said. We've come to see if it's just like they said it was. And then they hurriedly went away. But Mary kept this in her heart. She said, Lord, you're doing something. I want to challenge you tonight to live your life aware of the activity of God. And by the way, sometimes the activity of God doesn't look like God. Sometimes it don't look like him. You say, what are you talking about? You ever thought about what Mary went through? Have you ever stopped to think about here's a young lady who's engaged and now she's with child? Folks, there was a lot of shame she had to bear. There was a stigma. Imagine being getting ready to give birth and you're uprooted out of your home and now you're having to travel to Bethlehem and there's nowhere to have this baby except in a place where animals are kept. And that that that baby's got to be laid in a feed trough. You imagine that what that young lady was going through? There was a lot of things going on. Is that the way God comes to earth? Is that the way God should be born? Is that the way that God would I mean you would think here's the king, he's the king of all kings. Shouldn't he be born in a palace somewhere? Shouldn't he be laid on a bed of ivory and covered with the most expensive of materials? Shouldn't he have a a garrison of angels attending his birth and standing and watching over his little bed? Well, the truth is that wasn't the way God intended to come He was going to be born of this virgin. He was going to be laid in a lowly manger. He was going to come and communicate. Through the common man and to the common man, and he was going to do all this, and everything going on in Mary's life that she did not understand was the activity of God. Know this. Delays, detours, denials can all be a part of God's plan. If you don't believe that, ask Joseph. Ask Joseph. You think about here as a man that went through I mean the Lord communicated, the Lord spoke to him as a young man, and and he said, Joseph, you're going to rule even over your parents And they're going to come and do obeisance. You're going to rule. And look, he didn't understand all that God was going to do, but but when you get betrayed by your brothers thrown in a pit, sold as a slave, lied on by Jezebel. Her name wasn't Jezebel, but she had Jezebel's spirit. Lied on by Jezebel, all of that don't look like you're going to the palace. All of that don't compute it, don't add up. But know this: it was the activity of God. Now, listen, some of you are sitting here wondering, Lord, what in the world is going on in my life? I mean, this don't look like I and how many of you, we get it figured out, don't we? We think now, God, you need to do this, this, this, and this How many of you have been sorely disappointed? Because he don't consult your plans. He don't do it like you think he ought to do it. And rarely does the Lord ever do it like we think he ought to do it. I mean, have you ever gotten a situation you think, now Lord, I really I'm praying you'll take care of this, and in your mind you've already got it figured out. This is exactly how He's going to do it. And then the Lord up and does it some way you never even had on your radar. I'm just saying that we need to be aware of the activity of God. Sometimes the activity of God doesn't look like God's activity, but it sure is. Mary kept all these things. She said, this is the Lord. There's something going on here. God's doing some things. May the Lord help us to get very serious about, Lord, show me what you're doing. Show me what you're doing. I want to be involved in what you're doing. Lord, I'm not going to plan what I'm going to do and say, now, Lord, get involved and bless my effort, but I'm going to say, Lord, show me what you're doing. Show me your activity. Show me what it is that you're doing in my life, in my family, in my heart, and around me. Lord, what is it that you're doing? And then Lord, help me to be a part of it. Mary was aware she noticed the activity of God. Let me say quickly, number two, she pondered the purposes of God. Look what it says. Mary kept all these things and pondered them. Pondered them. Now that's probably not a word you use very frequently. I'll have to admit that's a word I grew up hearing all the time. If my granddaddy was sitting on the porch just thinking, he would often say, I'm pondering. And you say, What are you doing, Papa? He said, I'm pondering. Uh y i when Sarah was a little girl, she'd go out and sit on her swing set and and she would sit out there, she'd have her bumblebee costume on, she had bumblebee wings and bumblebee thing. Oh she's fascinated with being a bumblebee for some reason And she'd sit out there like a great big bumblebee and and sometimes I'd say, Well you do insist, she said, I'm pondering. Just pondering. You say, What does that mean? What does it mean to ponder? The word means literally to weigh it out. It's as if Mary was laying all this information side by side, trying to discover the meaning of it all. She was pondering. She kept all these things and pondered them. She was seeking the purpose She was looking for the purpose. What's the purpose of this birth? And what's the purpose of this communication from these angels? She was wanting to know. Now, now listen. You and I aren't going to know all of the purposes of God. If you live any length of time, there are some questions you've got that you have no answers for. There are some things that happen that you don't know the reason behind it. But listen, as a Christian, you and I, there are some things we can know. There's some purposes. You can start putting the puzzle pieces together and say, now Lord, I see why you did that. I see what you're doing there. Sometimes the Lord lets you see why things happen like they happen. I believe with all of my heart Mary is looking back and she's trying to put all of the puzzle pieces together and what's happening as she ponders, all that's coming together You know, as we ponder what the Lord's doing, as we stop and try to get to the purposes of it, we're often encouraged that God is working even when we think he's not. Lord, you were doing something. I didn't even realize it until now. But Lord, you were doing something in that situation. Oftentimes we need to stop and ask God the why behind the what 's. Mary was not a spectator, just living. She was going to be a communicator of what she lived. Have you ever thought where did Luke get his information? And I know that God, all scriptures given by inspiration of God. God breathed. But I do believe that God often uses others to trans uh to communicate or translate the information, and no doubt I believe with all my heart that Mary communicated to Luke the things that she experienced. In other words, she helped put the pieces of the puzzle together and connect the dots. Look. If you've been saved, what I enjoy about being around older Christians is that they've connected a lot of the dots already And they're able to tell you some. This is the why behind the what 's. This is what the Lord was doing. This is how the Lord was working. This is what the Lord was up to. God had a purpose. And listen, when you study the life of Mary and we talk about Mary's heart, God's reminding us that he had a purpose in mind when he chose Mary to be that vessel through whom the Lord Jesus would be born. Your life and mine is on purpose. You're who you are and where you are and working and married to and family and all the other details, all of that is by divine design. God's doing that for a reason There's a purpose. You may not see it clearly now. I was just thinking about this for a little bit. I told the deacons last week I had no intention of being a pastor. I wanted to be an evangelist. But I remember that little mountain church I preached in, and they had a business meeting on a Sunday morning, and I figured they're badness, they do business meetings all the time And I told my wife, they told us to go out on the porch and wait. We weren't members. I was just been preaching there a few weeks. And so I said, you know what? I'm not going to stand out here in the cold. I'm going, let's go home. I mean it whatever they're doing in there don't have anything to do with us. And so we got in the car and we went home. We got to the house. We didn't have cell phones back then. And we got to the house, the phone's ringing, ringing, ringing, ringing. I thought, who's calling us on Sunday? You know, you don't call people on Sunday unless it's an emergency or something, you know. That's a rest day, Lord's day. And I picked it up and it was Brother Rodney Warren. He's in heaven now. Just went to heaven not long ago. He was deacon there at Jonathan Valley. And he said, Preacher, where'd you go? I said, I went home. He said, Well, we voted you to be our pastor. I said, You what? He said, Yeah, we voted you to be our pastor. I didn't know what to say. I said, do you want me to preach tonight? He said, of course, you're our pastor now I told Elizabeth, I said, Elizabeth, they just voted me to be their pastor. She said, did you know about that? I said, no, I didn't know about that. I guess she thought maybe I knew and didn't tell her. But I had no clue And and I remember just all of the struggle of uh of trying to come to terms with all of that. But looking back now, that was the Lord. The Lord was doing that. It was the activity of the Lord. And although I was still in Bible college, I got an education in that first church. By the way, I've gotten an education in every church that I pastor I felt like when I went north that I went to seminary. I don't know what I'm at here. I hope not the cemetery. I hope but God's doing something. I look back and I realize that God was preparing me yesterday for today. That God's doing things in our and by the way, what God's doing in your life right now is preparation for tomorrow. He's getting you ready. There's some purpose. There's some reason. And look, you might be like Joseph somewhere between the pit and the palace. But God had a purpose in all that. And Joseph knew God enough and pondered this thing enough that when he met his brothers, here's what he said to them, you meant it for evil. But God meant it for good. To save much people alive. You know what he realized? Everything I went through brought me to this point right here so that that a host of people's lives would be spared. And and they wouldn't die in the famine. God had a purpose. Now I'll tell you, if you get a hold of that, it'll change your life. You'll stop feeling sorry for yourself. You'll stop being severe and upset about everything that happened because God had a purpose in it. And it would be good like Mary to ponder these things. She kept these things, and she pondered them because she wanted to know the purpose. And oh, what a purpose it was. To be the vessel through whom the Lord Jesus would come, to be the woman privileged to bear in her body that holy seed, and then to see that one born and see that man die and see that God rise again. And know that salvation comes to no other but the Lord Jesus and to know she had a little part in what God was doing. Don't you want to have a part in what God's doing? I was thinking of Brother Hurst and his testimony about that drug dealer getting saved. And, you know, he didn't go down there to convert drug dealers. But it was part of the purpose of God. God had him right there. God had the you know that person prepared. God was doing a work. I'm just saying that your life is not just mere whim or accident or circumstance or whatever. Your life and mine is ordained of God and designed of God, and God has a purpose in all that He's doing in our lives. Even the things we deem bad, even the things that we consider difficult. Think again about Mary and that time. Her her we We rejoice today, but I'm telling you, that there was a lot of hard times that she had to go through as she carried the Lord. There was a lot, can you imagine her going to the market? There she is. You say, well, that that didn't happen. Well tell me why I mean people are just people. I don't care if it's two thousand years ago or two thousand years in the future, here's what I know people are people. And I'm sure there's a lot of talk and there was a lot of finger pointing. And there was a lot of shame and and maybe a a a bit of a cold shoulder and and a lot and a lot of difficulty that that the Bible don't record for us and but we can understand being humans what it was like And know that that's what she went through, but know this God had a purpose in it. God had a purpose. The Lord was doing something And through your difficulties and through the disappointments and through even the times of despair and doubt, know this: God has a purpose. God's doing something. I want you to notice quickly, number three, she treasured the work of God. She noticed the activity of God. She pondered the purposes of God. And then she treasured the work of God. Look what it says. She pondered them in her heart. Someone said that the most valuable things are kept in the most special of places. What was in Mary's heart? What God was doing. The work of God. That was important to her. Now listen, here's what I do know. Mary had no room for bitterness. She wasn't bitter as to what she had gone through. She she she wasn't you say, how do you know? Because that what that's that wasn't in her heart. That that was not what was in her heart. By the way, when she sang her song, she didn't sing a woe is me She didn't sing, Nobody knows. She didn't sing that, did she? She rejoiced in God her Savior. She was praising the Lord for the privilege to see him working in her life. She treasured the work of God Can I say tonight that that we ought to treasure the work of God? If someone bumped into you, so to speak, What's in you is what's going to spill out. Now, if I were to run into Brother Richard walking around, and he don't walk around with his coffee up here. But if I went down to his shop where he works, and he's always got coffee somewhere, and if I were to bump into him and to spill his coffee, what's going to come out of that cup? You get a A plus, Micah. Now if he were to come up here into my office and he were to bump into me and spill my cup, he's not going to spill coffee. He's gonna spill tea. Now what I'm trying to say is what's on the inside is what's gonna come out Mary had the treasure in her heart. What was the treasure? She was treasuring. She was keeping all this in her heart. She was storing up through the years the wonderful work of God. That was important to her. She was fighting, she was excited, she was aware, she knew the purpose, she was saying, God's doing some things in my life, God's doing some things through me. God's doing some things around me. And listen, when you got around Mary, guess what you heard about? You heard about the work of God You heard what the Lord was doing in her life. She wasn't angry. She wasn't jealous. She wasn't spiteful. She just simply was joyful over what the Lord was doing in her heart. Now let me ask you something. What's in your heart? What have you treasured up? You know, some people hide in their heart every wrong that's ever been done. And I'll tell you what they are. They're bitter people. They're bitter people. They can tell you the date, the time, the second, the moment that some wrong was done. They can take you to the place just like, you know, they can talk about something, and it might have happened 40 years ago, but they talk like it happened yesterday, because they treasure it in their heart. They kept that thing in their heart. They've kept it and they've nursed that little thing and it's got bigger and stronger, and over the years that th that's that's what's in their heart. But let me ask you something. Wouldn't it be better to keep the work of God in your heart? What the Lord has done. Has the Lord done anything for you? If you're saved, he did something right big. If you're going to heaven, you you you ought to rehearse that. I said this a long time ago But I'm going to say it again. Only one person did it, but but a long time ago I said you ought to write your testimony down and give it to me. And give it to your family first, and then let me have a copy You say, why? Because that's the work of God. And you know what? It's good for you to know. It's good for you to see. It's good for you to remember. It's good for you to rehearse what the Lord's done for you. It's good for God's people to stop every once in a while and think where we were when the Lord found us. You ought to treasure that thing in your heart. Has the Lord done anything else? Has he answered any prayers? I ought to treasure that up in our hearts. Has he worked some situation out that just looked impossible? I mean that that thing looks so bleak and so dark and so difficult that there's no way out of here. By the way, much of your Bible is a repeating of what God did. You realize that much of your Old Testament is a repetition again? How many times is the Red Sea story told? How many times is the deliverance out of Egypt told? How many times is God's care for the Look, you wouldn't hardly have a psalm were it not for that event. The Psalms are full of that story told again and again and again and again. You know why? God don't want you to forget what He's done. We don't need listen we're often quick to forget just how the Lord has worked. Has the Lord done anything in your life? Has he answered prayer? Has he met some need? Has he changed some situation? Has he shown himself strong? Those are meant to be treasured in our hearts. Mary's witnessing some things that are incredible. And she's putting them in that treasure box. And saying, I don't want to forget what the Lord has done. God's done some things. I was talking with Brother Hurst, and he was talking about some things that happened there in Guam. And as he did, you know, you could just almost see his eyes sparkle. Because he was excited. And looking back, and some of this happened 20, 30, 40 years ago. And yet there was a joy there. You witnessed some of that in his testimony. God did some things. Don't you want to have some stories, if you will? Not things you make up, but things that the Lord's done. Some things the Lord's done he's used ya and and and it's not the vessel glorying. You never find Mary glorying in the fact that she was that vessel, but she was glorying in the fact that the the Lord Jesus would use her vessel and come to this old earth in that way Are there some things we need to treasure? Boy, you remember, do you remember those moments the Lord came through at the eleventh hour? Do you remember those those times that the Lord just stepped in when it seemed like you you had the narrative written out. Yeah. You had it written out. I remember when Josiah was a little boy, he was in hospital through Christmas. He had pneumonia real bad. Nothing they could do seemed to clear it up. And uh, you know, you you start wondering what what's gonna happen. And And and he as it went on and he got worse and his breathing was worse and all of this, I thought, you know, I wondered, is is he gonna make it? Really? We were we were thinking, is he going to make it? He was so sick and and it just didn't seem anything was working. And you you start you you you start, your mind starts going those ways and you think, man, is is the Lord and I remember we had our Christmas dinner at church and and I was there by myself and Elizabeth's with Joe in the hospital and And uh and we're we're thinking, is what's gonna happen? And the church had a prayer meeting. And I'll tell you, God in heaven answered prayer. God did. I mean, just like you flipped a switch. Next time I go to the hospital, all of the cabinet doors are locked in his room. And I said, what what's that about? He said you can't keep him in the bed He's like a monkey. He's in every cabinet. He's on the sink. He's everywhere. I thought well I thought he was sick. Well that was that was yesterday, I guess You say, what did that? Good medicine? No, a great God. The great physician who's able. Are there some things, or are there some things you say, God, you did that? Every once in a while you need to just look up and say, now Lord, that was you. You did that. And oh, how many of those things have we treasured up in our hearts? Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. You know, there'll come a time where this memory will have a very special ministry This memory will have a special ministry. It'll be a ministry of encouragement to your heart. It'll be a ministry of edification to the next generation. Because we're obligated as God's people to tell the generations to come the power of God and the things He's done. We ought to tell. You know, we don't do this so much in our culture, but we ought to. We ought to tell what the Lord's done. We ought to tell others, and especially younger ones, and just encourage them. Don't tell them how hard the battle was. Tell them what victory the Lord wrought. Don't tell them all of the sad tales and all of the woe is me. Tell them about the things God did, because the things God's done is far greater than all of the difficult things that had to get you to that place. You know when Joseph told the story, when the Bible records his tale, the emphasis is never on the pit. It's never on the prison. It's never on Potiphar. It's always on the palace. You know why? Because that's where God was going. That's where the Lord was taking him. Church, the Lord's working. Are we aware? Do we see what he's doing? If you're saved, if you're a believer tonight, God's doing something. And God wants to do, I believe, even more. He wants to work through you. He wants you to be a vessel. You say, what I don't really see the Lord working. Are you surrendered? Are you are you saying, Lord, here am I, use me? Here am I, like Isaiah, send me. Or are you giving yourself to the Lord and say, now Lord, I want you to do with me whatever you can. Brother Hurst said to me this morning, he said, you know, I just told the Lord, I'm not much, but I'm yours That's surrender. I'm not much, but I'm yours. Whatever you want to do with me, Lord. And isn't it amazing the things that you put in the hand of God what He can do with it That's that little boy who took his lunch and gave it to the Lord. It wasn't a great big meal, it wasn't a banquet, it it it wasn't a catered event, it was just simply his little sack lunch, but God took that sack lunch and he fed a whole bunch of people. Because God specializes in taking little things and doing big things. God takes what little you give him and he works wonders with it so that you stand back and say, Was that really in my hand? Remember when Moses robbed, how God used that, it was just that staff, that rod that he would lean on and walk with, and he put it in the hands of God. And boy, I'll tell you, it shook Egypt up. God shook that whole place up with that rod. That rod was symbolic of the power of God. Without the power of God, it was just a piece of wood. But when God put his hand on it and God did great things through him, it was the workings of God. And remember this, we're just mounds of dust. We're animated dust. That's all we are. But boy, when God puts his hand on dust, he can do some mighty big things. I'll tell you, listen, are we aware of the activity of God? Are we surrendered to it? Are you pondering the purposes? Are you looking back and seeing and putting the pieces together? And say, Now Lord, I know exactly now why you did that. I see that you were preparing me for what you had in store. By the way, it's not over till you're in heaven. God 's still doing things. You know, sometimes we quit before God does. We're finished. I like Jeremiah. I can sympathize in some degree. Jeremiah said, I'm done. I'm not going to speak his name. I'm not going to preach his word. He was through. Elijah was another one who said, I'm done, Lord, I'm no better than my father's. Let me die. Isn't it interesting that God didn't answer that prayer? Didn't even entertain it. He said, go to sleep. Eat you a little bit. And get in that cave, and I'm going to talk to you. He wasn't really finished. He was about, he was really just getting started. And oftentimes we're ready to quit when God's just getting started. Look, ponder the purpose. God's doing something. God's got a purpose in what he's doing. And then treasure the work of God. Boy, if you store anything in your heart, don't store the wrongs. Don't store the offenses. Don't store the hurt feelings. Don't store all of the disappointments and the difficulties. Don't store all of that up. Store the work of God. Look what the Lord did with all that. Look how the Lord, I imagine they could have said, you know, it was terrible, the army of Pharaoh was behind us, the Red Sea in front of us. Oh, we all thought we were gonna die, we're screaming and crying, and Moses is standing still, just looking out over the water, like nothing was going on. They could have talked like that But in the Bible we read that God parted the sea. And they went across on dry ground. Treasure the work of God. Store it up. Might be good to sit down with a pen and a piece of paper and start writing down. This is what the Lord did for me. Start with your salvation and move forward. And say, you know, the Lord, look how the Lord took care of me here, and the Lord answered that prayer, and the Lord worked that way. And then you'll start, you know what you're doing? You're storing it up. You're treasuring it in your heart. You're saying, these are the things that are important to me. I believe we raise a generation of children who do not know God nor the power of God because we don't communicate the things God has done for us. We don't tell them what great things the Lord has done. Oh, has the Lord done some things? I'm looking over this congregation and I can tell some tales for you. And you know God's done some things. Done some things in your life. Starting with your salvation and then answering prayer and providing needs and giving you jobs and directing you and and and healing the sick body or bringing you through loss and bereavement and comforting you along the journey and Just making you more like Christ every step of the way. Oh, what great things the Lord's done. Church, be encouraged. He's not finished. There's greater things still. The last chapter will be this come up hither. It may be in the rapture, but it but it may be the Lord calling us home. But boy, what a what a story. What a work of God. My grandfather went to be with the Lord. I had the privilege to be beside him. He had been sick, hadn't said a word, or really made any move. And all of a sudden he woke up and his eyes were big and he looked up and he smiled the biggest smile I've ever seen. He lifted his little hand like that. Now, there'd be some folks give you some scientific explanation of the response of a body dying. But I'm going to tell you what I believe happened. I believe the Lord called his name. And his whole body had had had about shut down, and he was at that point that That he was weak, but but he he rallied one more time just to see the Savior. And God let us see, God let us see such a sweet departure I'll tell you what, everybody in that room knew God was there. And a lot of them were lost. But they said, you know, never been around anything like that. He's real. Yes, David. Don't hide your story Tell what great things the Lord's done. When he saved that demoniac, he said, go home. Tell your friends. What great things the Lord's done. Just go tell 'em. But you you don't have to convince them, you don't have to argue with them. You don't have to twist their arm and say, you better believe this. You just tell them. And don't you know everybody that he spoke to said, isn't this the guy that was crazy? Living up there in the tombs cutting himself. Nobody could tame. Now he's clothed. He's in his right mind. And he's talking about this man named Jesus. That's the gospel. That's what Jesus does. Amen. And he's still able to do that today. Oh, let's tell the great things the Lord has done. Father, help us tonight. Help you people. Thank you for them.