Savior. And the truth of the matter is, you would not say be saved, and I would not be saved had he not came looking for us. He's come to seek and to save that which was lost. Uh no man can take credit for anything the Lord has done. And we must give him all the glory. Thank you for that song. Would you take your Bibles, please, and turn with me in the Word of God to Job Chapter number 42. Job chapter number 42. And I'm going to read the first six verses of the chapter. Probably just about everybody that knows anything, or even just a little bit about the Bible, knows what Job went through, or at least to some degree knows how Job suffered. We also know something about the three friends that came and sat. And as the Bible tells us, their first few days was a blessing because they didn't say anything. And then they messed it all up by opening their mouth and trying to figure out what was going on in Job's life. How many of you know that uh You don't know half the time what's going on in your life, let alone anybody else's. Right? So we ought to be careful of that sort of thing. And but anyway, and they they began to criticize and try to find out what's wrong with Job, put him under the microscope. And then chapter 38, the thing turns. Job's tried to defend himself, and uh he gets he gets Sort of out of spirit here, out of sorts, as he's dealing with these men and uh I don't know, some of the sarcasm that he uses just sort of gets my attention He said there one of his last offenses, he said, Surely wisdom will die with you men. And uh he was as if saying, you know, boy, all the smart men are going to die when you fellows are gone. And uh they were just really tough on him. And then God says, Job, I've got something to say. And I'm interested not so much in what the Lord said. I'm going to look at that in just a moment. But I want you to see in Job forty two, and if you would kindly stand with me, we'll honor the book this this fashion this morning. Job forty two and verse one. Then Job answered the Lord and said I know that thou canst do everything, and that no thought can be withholden from thee. Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore have I uttered that I understood not, things too wonderful for me which I knew not. Here I beseech thee, and I will speak. I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now mine eye seeth thee. Wherefore I abhor myself and repent in dust and ashes. That little phrase in verse number five has got had my attention for some time. He says, Now mine eye seeth thee. Job had got a glimpse of someone he needed to see. And I'm praying the Lord will help us do that this morning. Let's pray. Father, we bow our heads again in Jesus' strong name. And we're thankful, Lord, for your precious word. We're not worthy to hold it or read it, but we're thankful for your mercy in our lives it allows us I thank you for the opportunity that we have to be in this place, and Lord, for these few moments that we have together. Would you please quieten our hearts and speak to us from heaven? Give us ears to hear what the Spirit of God saith. And Lord, please work in our hearts. We'll thank you for what you do, for Lord, we do need to see thee, like Job did. And we'll thank you, Father, for how you help us, for we're trusting in you and waiting upon you now, in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. Don't forget that little phrase here mine eye seeeth thee. Mine eye seeth thee. Out of all that Job suffered. The greatest blessing that came out of the sufferings of Job was this meeting with God. God met with Job in his suffering. And as I read these verses here that I just read in your hearing, I find that this meeting with God did several things for Job. God did some things in Job's life. Number one, God renewed his confidence. Look in verse number two. Here's what Job said. I know that thou canst do everything. And that no thought can be withholden from thee. All that Job had gone through had brought him to this conclusion after meeting with the Lord. That the Lord can do anything. Renewed his confidence in the Lord. But not only did it renew his confidence in the Lord, but it removed his confidence in himself. It removed his confidence in himself. Look what he says here in verse number three. Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore have I uttered that I understood not. Things too wonderful for me, which I knew not. Now if you go back and read the book of Job, Job was pretty sure about some of the things he said, but now after he's met God, he said, God, I don't know a thing about what I was talking about. I mean I was just talking. I I was just uh can I just say it in a plain way? I was just running my mouth. And I didn't know what I was even talking about. Lord, these things are too wonderful You're too too glorious and too majestic. I I can't speak on your behalf. And he and he's he's saying he's sorry for that. But he's he's got that confidence himself removed. In fact, he's to the place in verse six he said, I abhor myself. In other words, he's come to the end of his self. He's come to the end of himself. By the way, until you see the Lord for who he is, you'll never see yourself for what you are. But everybody who sees the Lord for who he is sees themselves as they are, and and all men seem to respond in the same way. And that's that third thing that Job uh ha happened to him, what happened to Job when he met the Lord here. We find that it caused him to repent. He said, I repent in dust and ashes. The word repent means that he there was a change. There was an external expression of sincere repentance, this dust and ashes. He was wallowing in ashes and casting dust on his head. Someone one writer said that it was the external appearance corresponding with his internal emotions. He was saying, Lord, I'm wrong. I was wrong about you. I was wrong about what I said. And Lord, I repent of that. I'm repenting in dust and ashes. By the way, every man who meets God has the same attitude. Luke chapter 5, when uh Peter uh saw the Lord there in verse number 8, he said, Depart from me, for I'm a sinful man. Depart from me, I'm a sinful man. When Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up, Isaiah chapter 6, he said, Woe is me, I'm undone. I promise you, you'll not meet God and be impressed with yourself. If you meet God, you'll be broken over the reality, and like Job and like Isaiah and like Peter and like every other man who truly knows God, you'll say, I abhor myself and I repent in dust and ashes. True spirituality does nothing for self-esteem. I believe the self-esteem movement of this day is satanic in nature. It makes man glorify himself in the eyes of a God before whom we need to be humbled. And yet we see here that Job, as he cries out, he says, I abhor myself and I repent. In dust and ashes. All of this because Job finally saw God clearly. All of this came about because Job could finally see the Lord. Can I say to you this morning, I don't think there's anything I need and you need any more than to see the Lord more clearly Perhaps, and you say, what are you talking about? I'm talking about what's the biggest thing in your life right now? What's the biggest thing in your life What's the biggest view on your horizon? What's the thing that you can see the most? That's the thing that your eyes are fixed on. Boy, as I poured over this passage, the Lord has really dealt with my heart because oftentimes all sorts of things, you know, sometimes people get awful big in our horizon. Good people, bad people, failing people, I mean it don't matter who they are, it's just people, and people get big in our horizon. And we let them take up too much space in our eyes and in our heart. Or sometimes it's just problems. Anybody got problems here this morning? Well, you perfect folk, pray for the ones that do. And and oftentimes those problems get so large and they loom so big, and that's all we can see. That's all we're consumed with. Sometimes it's our own personal failings. You ever notice that we're told to examine ourselves? Before we come to the table of the Lord. But as I study my Bible, I find that examining oneself, yes, it's a critical part. Of staying right with God. But if it's constantly done, it will bring deep discouragement. You know why? Because if all you do is look at your feet of clay, you're sure to fall. I can say it this way, when I was farming, the boss would say, get on the tractor and put your eyes on that tree out there and plow your first furrow. And, you know, I thought, how's that going to help me? I want to see if the plow 's following, you know, as if it wouldn't follow you And I want to make sure I'm plowing a straight line and so when I'm going out through there, I'm looking at the tractor and I'm looking at the plow and looking back and looking back and I get to the other end it look like a black snake and cross that field. It just And I come back and the boss said, uh, you gotta do that again. He said, this time keep your eye on that tree. And I said, well I tried. He said, well you didn't try good enough. He said you need to do it again. Because you were watching your progress instead of watching that point out ahead. Now sometimes spiritually I start watching my progress. I start looking at me, and the next thing you know, my heart's overcome with discouragement. You do the same thing. And that's why we see that we need to see the Lord. We need to see him and see him for all that he is. Do you realize that as he began to reveal himself to Job, he revealed himself in three powerful ways. Number one, he revealed his might. He said, Job, I'm a God of power. Of all the things you know about me, Job, you need to know this. I'm a God of power. Number two, he revealed his majesty. To what extent Job could understand it, he showed Job just how majestic that he really is. And then he showed Job his mercy. And I'm glad when God reveals his might and his majesty, he also reveals his mercy. Because if my God was nothing but a God of might and a God of majesty, I would be in trouble. But he's also a God of mercy. I want you to notice with me first the God of might. And really, that's the bulk of what he he shares with Job, starting in chapter number thirty-eight. And chapters 39 and first part of chapter 40 and all of chapter 41. I don't have time to read all of it. I'm going to look at some of it. But I want you to read those chapters and read those verses and realize that God is a mighty God. God is all powerful. He begins this revelation in verse number four, and he asks this question: Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare if thou hast understanding. Job, if Job, you've got this all figured out, tell me where you were when I laid the foundation. You imagine laying the foundations of the earth? And the Lord's tell he's talking to Job in terms that Job can understand, but really God didn't go about building the earth in the way of laying foundations. He spoke and things are. He's telling Job, look, I built this thing, I created this thing. Verse 5, who hath laid the measures thereof if thou knowest? Who has stretched the line upon it? Whereupon are the foundations thereof fastened? You say, what's he saying? He's saying, Job, if you can answer these questions, you can start understanding how powerful a God I am. Now, folks, we've advanced. I'll give you that. We've advanced to some degree. And in our advancement, we've got answers like measurements and heights and depths and width and all of that. But we still do not know how all things came to be other than this. In the beginning, God, a God of great power. And Job is being impressed with the reality that God is a God of power. He does this by talking about the creation of the earth and sea. That's chapters 38, verses 4 to 11. And he talks about how he created all of this. And my friend, you and I need to realize that when you look at the earth and all of its its wonder, that it's a testimony to the fact that God's powerful. You ever stood and looked at a mountain, a high mountain, maybe the Rocky Mountains or even some of the higher mountains here in the east and realized that, man, God did that. The God of heaven created that. Or stepped outside and looked up into the heavens and looked at the stars and looked at all the things that God has put in place and said, You know, my God did that. Because he is a God of power. If you're not careful and if I'm not careful, we'll forget that God is a God of might. And Job sitting there in this ash heap of of disappointment is saying, you know what, God, you're right. I was wrong. You are a God of power. You're powerful enough to turn this storm around. You're powerful enough to fix this situation if you so choose. If not, you are still God. A God of great power. Then he goes on in chapters 38, starting in verse 12, and he talks about his control over creation. Not only the fact that he created it, but the fact that he controls it. In verse 12, he says, Hast thou commanded the morning since thy days? And caused the day spring to know his place? Job, how many sunrises have you ordered? That's humbling thought, isn't it? Not a one. But God's ordered every one. Verse 13, that it might take hold of the ends of the earth. He goes on and he says in verse 16: Hast thou entered into the springs of the sea? Or hast thou walked in the search of the death? He says in verse 18, Hast thou perceived the breadth of the earth? Declare if thou knowest it all. Again, I don't believe God's mocking or taunting Job. He's just impressing upon Job that Job, you're a man and I am God And I'm the one who controls all of these things. And listen, we live in a day where scientifically this truth is under attack. Because man somehow or another thinks that he's in charge of the weather and he's in charge of all that's going on. And I've got news for you. The Bible declares that springtime and harvest will continue So long as God decrees, it is God who's in charge of the weather. It's God who is in charge of all that's going on in this earth. He makes the sun to rise and set, and he is God. Now know that. Know that that's the power of God, his control over creation. In fact, that goes all the way through uh to chapters 39. He talks about the snow And the hail? And the rain? I like this question. Verse 28. Hath the rain a father? It does. God's its father. He's the one who commands it. He talks about the constellations beginning in verse 31. Canst thou bind the sweet influences of Pallades or loose the bands of Orion? And he he describes how God has put everything in proper order and he's ordering all of the movement of the sun, the moon, the stars, and he's saying everything is just set like I want it, everything's going just as I ordered it. He talks about the clouds, who can number the clouds in verse 37 in his wisdom? He talks about the ravens in verse 41. Who provideth for the raven his food? Verse thirty nine or chapter thirty-nine verse one he talks about the wild goats. Verse verse nine of that chapter he talks about the unicorn and And there's three animals here that he describes, the unicorn, the behemoth, and Leviathan. And I've heard a lot of fanciful descriptions about these animals. And quite frankly, I'm just going to tell you what I believe. I believe these are animals that do not exist now, things that God created and that man w had the opportunity to view in Job's day that we don't have the opportunity to view in our day. But nevertheless, he said, you know, what do you know about these things? Who gave the peacock? Verse 13, gavest thou the goodly wings unto the peacocks? Or wings and feathers under the ostrich. And he describes how all of these things live. Verse 19, he talks about the horse and his strength. And the hawk in his flight. And again, God's just saying, Job, I made all of this and I manage all of this, and I'm in charge of all of this, and I want you to know that I am a mighty God. Dear brother, sister in the Lord, you and I need a fresh reminder this morning that we have a mighty God. That he is a God of great power. That though m culture has has d is d d decaying and coming apart and Man's morals are under demise and all the things we see around us are disheartening. Know this, it has not changed the power of God. He's still the creator. He's still the sustainer. The Bible says by him all things consist He's in control. And then he gives a fair amount of time, starting in chapter 40, to these two big animals, the behemoth and the Leviathan. And would you look at it just a moment with me, chapter 40, verse 15? He says, Behold now behemoth, which I made with thee. So apparently he made this animal and it lived with Job and Job was familiar with it. He said it eateth grass as an ox. Lo now his strength is in his loins, his force in the navel of his belly. He moveth his tail like a cedar, the sinew uh of his stones are wrapped together, his bones are as strong pieces of brass, his bones are like bars of iron. I don't know what this thing was. Oh, I know people say, well, it's this particular dinosaur, and perhaps it was. I don't know. But I do know this: whatever it was, it was an awful, impressive creature. Job, just take a look at that thing and tell me if you don't think I'm a powerful God. He talks about, look at verse 23: Behold, he drinketh up a river. When he got thirsty, boy, he just drunk a river. Imagine the elk neck going dry all of a sudden. Think, what's that? Why's old behemoth getting a drink down there That's what the Bible says. I don't believe this is figurative either. This is literal. This thing, whatever it was, was so massive that when it took a drink of water, it lapped up a river. And then he talks about in chapter 41 this thing called Leviathan. And he talks about how he said, Canst thou draw out Leviathan with a hook? Or his tongue with a cord which thou letest down. And I love how the Lord says this. Skip down to verse 8 of chapter 41. He said, Lay thine hand upon him, remember the battle, do no more. You know, he said, Job, if you want to know how stout he is, mess with him and find out. And you won't do that again. I'm just trying to make it plain. He said, this thing is so powerful and so so so massive and terrifying that Job, once you ever hook hold of him, you'll know that what you had and the battle you fought, you'll not do it again. Then look at verse 10 and 11. Chapter 41. None is so fierce that dare stir him up. Who then is able to stand before me? God said, if I've made animals so fierce that no man can stand before, what do you think I am? He said, stop and think a moment about it and and realize if if if an animal that I've made has such massive strength and such powerful abilities and is terrifying to you. Do you think I'm any less? Know this. God is saying, Job, Job, I am a mighty God. I'm an all-powerful God. He goes on to remind him here that he again, verse 11, who hath prevented me that I should repay him? Whatsoever is under the whole heaven is mine. It's all the Lord's. You know the song, This Is My Father's World? It is the world, and everything in it's his. And he's saying, I want you to know something that I'm the God who made it all, and I'm the God who's over it all, and I'm the God who created it all, and I'm the one who demonstrated his power. And if these things impress you, if you'll just let me say it like this, I'm saying it reverently, if these things impress you, you ain't seen nothing yet. I'm telling you, I there are a few things I'd like to do before the Lord takes me to heaven. I've had the privilege to hunt black bear. I'd like to hunt grizzly bear. And I'd like to I'd like to polar bear hunt at least once. But man, the more I read about that and I I read a lot about it, I want to know everything I can know about it, they're pretty massive animals. And they're powerful. I mean they are awesome in their power. Something that's eleven and twelve feet long from its nose to the tip of its tail is a pretty big critter. The slap of its paw can break you in half as a human being. That's power. But know this: God made it. What must God be? I'm talking about a powerful God, a mighty God. Job, you you're you're worried about all that's going on. Job, you're troubled. Job that your friends have turned on. Job Know this, know this, I am a God of might. Quickly, number two, he revealed not only his might, but he revealed his majesty. And he does that here in chapter 40, starting in verse number 6. It says, Then answered the Lord unto Job out of the whirlwind and said, Gird up thy loins now like a man, I will demand of thee and declare thou unto me Wilt thou also disannul my judgment? Wilt thou condemn me that thou mayest be righteous? Hast thou an arm like God, or canst thou thunder with a voice like Him? Deck thyself now with majesty and excellency, and array thyself with glory and beauty. Cast abroad the rage of thy wrath, and behold every one that is proud and abase him. Look on every one that is proud and bring him low and tread down the wicked in their place. Hide them in the dust together and bind their faces in secret. Then will I also confess unto thee that thine own right hand can save thee. You know what God's saying, Job, I'm majestic. If you can, come up here and stand by me. Because here's what I do. Here's my majesty. You say, what does that word majesty mean? It means that that makes me stand in awe. By the way, you can't say all without dropping your jaw. When you realize that we serve a God who's majestic. My vocabulary fails me here because I can't describe to you like I want to how majestic the Lord is And he says, Job, I'm a majestic God. Notice this. He talks about the majesty of his wisdom in verse 8. He says, Wilt thou also disknow my judgment? You see, those men had sat in judgment upon Job, and they had shared their wisdom. And Job had literally torn their wisdom apart by his arguments. And he said, Will thou condemn me that thou mayest be righteous? Job had literally condemned every one of his friends with his rebuttals of their arguments. Now God says, Job, can you do that to me? You know what? Job can't answer a word. And church, can I remind you that our God is so majestic in his wisdom that his ways are higher than our ways, and his thoughts are higher than our thoughts? And there is nothing you and I can argue with God about because we don't have enough ground to stand on, because he's wise above anything we can comprehend. The majesty of his wisdom. And then he talks about the majesty of his power. He says in verse 9, Hast thou an arm like God? Hey, you remember when you was a little boy, you little fellows, you uh otherwise fellas? Remember when you was a little boy, you used to like show off your muscle? You'd curl up your muscle and you thought, boy, you had a big one. I mean you might have had nothing more than a little black snake's lither, but you you thought you really had a muscle. I can remember some boys we were playing around showing off our muscle, you know, like that, and my dad walked in. He just started laughing, laughing He said that's the funniest thing I've ever seen. And he said, You want to see a muscle? And my dad wasn't large built, but man, he was muscular. And I remember he rolled up his arm and that thing just kept swelling and growing And all of us stood there and thought, wow, we want an arm like that one day. You know. And I'm not saying this in a comical way, but God is saying, Job, Job, you got an arm like me? Do you have an arm like me? Do you have power like I've got power? He's just reminded Job that he created everything and he sustains everything. And he controls everything. And he says, Job, I want to remind you that I have an arm like no other. Aren't you glad that the arm of God knows no limit? That's why Job come to the He said, Lord, there's nothing you there there thou canst do everything. God, you can do everything. There's not one thing you can't do. Nothing is impossible with you. The majesty of his power. And then he talks about his glory in verse 10. He says, To indeck thyself now with majesty and excellency. And array thyself with glory and beauty. By the way, these are all things that God is robed with. These are all things that God is this is a description of Himself. And he's saying, now Job, just take a look at me. Can you make yourself like me? Now listen, the devil has got man convinced that he can be like God, but it'll never happen. And the reality is here, he's telling Job, Job, look at look at the glory. And listen. Oh God says I'm the great I am. Remember this. All that God is, he is without any outside help. Everything you are and everything I am is because of outside help. No man stands alone. And certainly the Lord does. He said, again, remember when he revealed himself to Moses, he said, I am that I am. He said, I'm the self-existent one. I don't need anything. I don't live off of anything. I am all things. I'm the reservoir, the spring of life. Everything that lives draws its life from me. And that's the God. He said, look at all the glory and the beauty and the majesty. And the excellency God that I have and know this, I am a God of glory. I how my heart and your heart needs to be impressed with that We need to understand this morning that our God is a God of great glory, the majesty of his glory. And then he changes gears and he talks about his wrath. And even his wrath is majestic. Verse 11, cast abroad the rage of thy wrath. Job, get mad and just see about how far your anger will take you. Pour out your rage and pour out your judgment and just see what it does. And here's what God says, here's what my my judgment's going to do. It's going to abase everyone who's proud. It's going to bring him low and tread down the wicked. It's going to hide them in the dust together and bind their faces in secret. In other words, he said, when my wrath is unleashed, it's going to right every wrong, it's going to condemn every wicked. It's going to cut everyone down who rises against me. That's the wrath of God. And it's majestic even in wrath. Our God's wrath is majestic. And through the Lord's words here, Job got a glimpse of the majesty of God. Can I stop here and say, that's why the devil don't want you to read your Bible? That's why you are kept so busy in this crazy world we live in that you don't have time to contemplate or meditate. That's why so many things whirl around your life and keep you so distracted and going ten different directions at once Because listen, the reality is when you sent like Job did, Job didn't have anywhere to go or anything to do. Everything had been taken away and Job is there, and it's just him and God, and it was there. He realized Oh, how great a God I have. And then we come to God's mercy. God 's revealed his might, he's revealed his majesty, and so far as I've studied this, every time God does this, he always attaches his mercy. And I believe he does that for our hope. So that we'll have hope. You say, where's God's mercy in all of this? Look in verse 7 of chapter 42. And it was so that after the Lord had spoken these words unto Job, the Lord said to Eliaphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled against thee and against thy two friends. For ye have not spoken to me the thing that is right as my servant Job hath. Therefore take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to my servant Job and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering And my servant Job shall pray for you. For him will I accept, lest I deal with you after your folly, in that ye have not spoken of me the thing which is right, like my servant Job. I want you to notice that God's mercy is shown to man's folly. He said, He said, Do this, or I'm going to deal with you after your folly, their foolishness. By the way, you say, well, these men were very foolish. I wouldn't dare be that way. Well, remember what David said one time. He said in Psalm 73, 22, he said, I was foolish. I was as a beast before you. When he envied the wicked and was envious over their prosperity, and he made his complaint, he said, Lord, I was foolish. I have been foolish. And I've got news for you this morning. I'm glad there's a God who has mercy on the foolishness of man. Here he is, showing his mercy to the foolishness. And then not only to the foolishness, but to those who fail. God shows His mercy to those who fail You'll notice in verse 9 that Elifa's the Timanite, Bildad the Shuite, Zophar the Maathnite, went and did according as the Lord commanded them. Now look at this phrase. The Lord also accepted Job. Now Job's own confession was, Lord, I failed you. You remember that? Look what he said in chapter 40. Verse four, he said, I'm vile. What shall I answer thee? I will lay my hand upon my mouth Once I had spoken, but I will not answer. Yea, twice, but I will proceed no further. He said, Lord, I said things I was wrong. I'm doing this right here. I won't say no more. I'm done. He said I'm vile. We read already in chapter 42, we read his confession here that he abhorred himself and he repented in dust and ashes He's literally saying, Lord, I failed you. I failed you. I'm done. I'm sorry. Forgive me. I'm closing my mouth. I have nothing more to say. But know this: God accepted Job. The Lord had mercy on Job. Yes, Job failed the Lord. He confessed it. In all all in the beginning he did not sin, but when he began to open his mouth He began to fail the Lord. And listen, the Bible says that the Lord accepted Job. The Lord looked at him and had mercy on him. And listen, there's not a man or woman here who's not failed the Lord. The Bible says we've all come short of the glory of God. Now, there may be some folk that think they haven't failed the Lord, but they just don't see the reality that in truth they have failed. All of God's people have failed him in some form or fashion, but I'm glad there's mercy laid up for those who fail There's mercy that will be poured out. That's what God did for Job. God had mercy on Job and accepted him just out of mercy. Do you not listen, does it not make you marvel? That you can bow your head and talk to God and have access to Him. That's mercy. That's mercy. That 's mercy that he would allow the likes of us. And again, I'm saying that if you'll see the greatness of God, you'll see the grossness of yourself. I've told you this, but when I first got married, you know, y young men, they don't have a lot of sense. And I don't know that we don't get much good sense until we're about forty. And then we don't keep it long. We get old and it goes somewhere. I don't know what happens. But but you know, you you don't see things like you should see things. And man, I I lived on the farm and you get nose blind to that farm. And I didn't think I'd come in, put my boots right there next to the table, take my coveralls off. Had me a nail right there, so everything would be good and handy and easy to get to. And and now you know something, isn't that strange how how when you get used to something better I mean, my son comes in, he's got his boots on, like, take them things off. I know where you've been and what you do. Don't bring them boots in this house And I'm just saying that when we see the greatness of God, we see the grossness of ourselves And here we see that God is saying, Job, I'm a great God, a glorious God. And listen, when you understand who you really are and begin to realize who God truly is, It's a mercy that someone like you or me can bow our head and talk to such a holy God. But we can through Jesus. It is a m wonder that the likes of us can live with hope of heaven burning in our hearts, knowing that if we put off this earthly tabernacle, We've got a building made by God, one made without the hands of men waiting in heaven for us. And you say, why? How can I go in? How can the likes of me go there? I'll tell you why. Because Jesus had mercy on us. Because there's mercy in the Lord. Oh, the greatness of the mercy of God. Even in the grossness of man. Here Job failed, and yet God showed him mercy. But here's another mercy. We see not only mercy to the foolishness, we see mercy to those who fail, but we see God's mercy in his favor. Because God could have put the end, the period right here and said, We're done, the story's over. And and Job would have gotten way more than he deserved. Job would have I mean the fact that he just lived And God taught him all of this, but that didn't end like that. Look what it says. The Lord turned the captivity of Job. When he prayed for his friends, also the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before. And you read about it, look, his friends, his brethren, his sisters, they all came and it says they bemoaned him. That means they expressed sorrow for him. They showed their sympathy to him. And they comfort him over all the evil the Lord had brought upon him. And every man also gave him a piece of money and every one an earring of gold. Now look at verse twelve. So the Lord blessed the latter end of Job more than in his beginning, for he had fourteen thousand sheep and six thousand camels and a thousand yoke of oxen and a thousand she asses. And verse thirteen he had also seven sons and three daughters. You know what God did? God said, Lord, Job, I'm going to show you my mercy. I'm going to show you my mercy by giving back and above what I took. I'm going to show you favor. And you know there's mercy and favor. There's really mercy and favor. The fact that God would show us favor. Now look, I don't have time this morning to expound the reality that if you're saved, you have been shown the favor of God. God's favor is upon you. You think about the favor of being called a child of God A wretch like you and me, a sinner, an offender of a holy God, and yet through the salvation given to us freely in the person of Jesus Christ, we're now called children of God. What mercy there is in that. What mercy there is. I should be in hell and you should be in hell, but God is going to take us to heaven one day. That's mercy. Oh, the mercy of God in the fact that He would put our sin eternally away, that He would blot the record out, He would clear the books. He would take it off. There's therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. What a mercy that God would do for us. I'm just saying this morning, dear friend, that the favor of God is a demonstration of the mercy of God in the lives of his people. Now, I want to ask you something. Have you seen the Lord? Oh, I don't think the Lord will come to you like he did to Job. I don't believe he'll come and speak face to face And and do as he did for Job here. And I I believe that because you've got a Bible. He don't have to. But he will come to you on the pages of his precious word. He'll show himself amid the storms of life. He will let you know that he's near to the broken in heart. He'll reveal himself to those who are contrite in spirit. He will not despise you. Listen, my friend, if there's anything you need and I need more than ever before, we need a fresh glimpse of him. We need to see the Lord in his might. He's a God of great power. We need to see the Lord in his majesty. He alone. Look, I've seen a few things in my time that really made me just stand with my mouth wide open, but they pale in comparison to the Lord. My father was a very simple man. We went one time to the Biltmore estate. And it's an impressive building if you've never been there. large place outside of Asheville, North Carolina. Vanderbilts built it. Beautiful buildings and grounds, indoor bowling alleys and pools, all sorts, just a beautiful p place I forget how many rooms. And we were taking mom and dad through that and we're walking through and my my dad don't seem impressed. And I'm thinking, well maybe it's just not his thing. You know, he's a mountain man, he's not too impressed with fancy buildings and we're walking along. We're standing out on a balcony and boy you could see, actually you could see all the way to Mount Pisgah from that one balcony. And at one time Mr. Vanderbilt owned all of that property. And I said, Dad, can you imagine that? Can you imagine owning all that property? Look at all those woods. Look at all those mountains. Isn't that a beautiful sight? And my dad in his very simple way, he said, son, he said this wouldn't even make a good doghouse in heaven. And I learned right then that he wasn't thinking about the beauty of that place. He had his mind in another world He was thinking of the of the glory and majesty up yonder. Now, church, I'll tell you, sometimes we get so wrapped up down here looking at all the things that just get our attention, and whether good or bad, indifferent, it don't matter, I'm telling you we need to get our eyes back where we can say, Mine eye seeeth thee That's why we come to church so mine eye can see it thee. We need to be in the house of God so we can open our Bibles and hear from the Lord and say, Mine eye seeeth thee. We need to hear a good hymn stir our hearts and speak to us so that mine eye can see thee. We need to bow on our knees and begin to pray and say, Oh God, help me, and God come help you, and say, Mine eye seeth thee. We need to walk by faith and not by sight, so that mine eye can see it thee. We need to live lives that are submitted and obedient to the Lord. Why? So that mine eye can see it thee. Church, we need to see the Lord. I don't know what you need this morning, but I do know this. I know we need to see the Lord. We, like Job of old, need to be able to see the Lord in all of his majesty. Perhaps we ought to bow our knee and pray this morning, Lord, show me thy glory. Moses said, Lord, you've got to show me your glory. I can't go on this errand. I can't continue this walk, Lord, unless I see you. Now, Lord, if I see you, Lord, if you'll show me, and if you'll reveal yourself, then Lord, I'll get help, and I pray this morning. Maybe you're discouraged. Maybe you're defeated. Maybe you're disobedient and living a life of sin. Maybe you're lost. And listen, you know how you need to see the Lord? You need to see him as Savior. See him hanging on the tree, shedding his blood to save you, paying your sin debt, not his, he didn't have any to pay for, but he paid your sin debt, and they put him in a tomb, and the tomb couldn't hold him because he got up on the third morning. And he'll save whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord. Friend, you need to see him as your Savior if you're not saved. But dear Christian, my heart's exercised for you. That we might see the Lord for who he really is. As days get darker and more difficult and things get more discouraging, it's going to become more important that mine eye seeth thee. I'm going to have to see him a lot more clearer. And you know the beautiful thing is, the clearer I see him, the dearer he becomes to my heart. The clearer I see him, the more I want to serve him. The clearer I see him, the greater my love for him. Oh dear friend, do you see him? Do you see him? Do you need to see him? Let's mind him here this morning. Maybe he's dealing with your heart. Would you stand with me, please? Our brother's coming. Father, we thank you for your word and your kindness.