It's one you learned years ago in Sunday school. Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so. You don't ever get beyond that and you don't ever get over that that he would love us like we are. And uh just like just like he said we were his only child. And boy, what favor the Lord shows you. Say, preacher, I don't know. Does he really love me? I mean, I'm telling you, you don't know what I've been through and all. Can I tell you there's a monument? That stands in history past. And it makes a statement that will never be erased from time or eternity. And that statement is, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. That monument is the cross of Calvary. And where Jesus died for you and me, he declared his love eternally. Eternally. And I'm glad God's not in the notion of changing his mind. And uh I praise the Lord for his great love. Well, I think the picture of love are our mothers. There's a reason there's that that funny little statement that's a face only a mother could love. The reason for that is mothers have great love. God has given mothers a capacity to love that seems to be beyond all others. Except the love of the Lord. And we're grateful. We're grateful for each one of you, dear ladies. And let me mention this for all of our ladies. We have a gift on the back table. There are three titles for you to choose from. Books that I hope will be a help to you And so you stop at the back table as you leave back the glass door and make sure you pick up one of those books, and along with it is a gift of a pen and a little writing pad. And that's for all of our ladies that are present here today. We want to encourage you and just say thank you in some small way. But uh if we could get all of our mothers to stand at this time, I would appreciate that. Would all of you mothers, would all of you just stand so we can honor you and appreciate you and want to give you a big hand of appreciation this morning Just give them a hand. Thank you very much. Now I you can be seated. Thank you. Here's what we're going to do We're going to recognize three specific mothers. We're going to recognize our oldest mother. We're going to recognize our mother with the most children. And then we're going to recognize the mother with the most children present in this service, okay? So for you dear ladies, let me start here because I kind of got an inkling now. But uh let me start at ninety. If you are a mother and you're ninety years of age and older, would you lift your hand? Put my glasses on here so I can see. How many we we have? One Just one? Sister Dickerson? You're the winner. You look surprised, this can be And her faithfulness to our local church. a big We have a gift for you, dear, from our church family, just to express our appreciation. Now, how many of you mothers have uh five children or more? Would you stand? It'd be easier to see if you stand. You have five children or more. Okay, we've got three. Six? Six children or more? Seven? Eight? How many children do you have, Miss Debbie? How many how many children, Sister McClellan? How many ch how many children do you have, dear? Yes. Five. You have five, okay. Sister Pret, how many children do you have? Five. You have five. Okay, we have a tie. So we'll give a gift to you both. You have six. Oh ladies, I'm sorry. Okay. Sister Larson beat you. She has six. Give her a hand, Josiah. All right. How many of you have at least four children present in this service? Do you have four children present? Would you stand please? Three children. My my daughter back there has three children. Alright, she has three. Anyone else have three present? Okay, we've got I see a few hands. Three present with you. Okay. You ladies stand that have three children present with you, and Josiah's gonna bring you a gift. Let's give them a hand of appreciation. You have two. Wait a second, let me grab the other When Josiah gets back there, raise your hand. I think it's Miss Tiffany and uh your mother-in-law son. Don't miss her. You better do right, boy. Amen. The Lord bless you, dear ladies. We thank God for you. And are grateful that you're here in the house of God with us today. And uh again, all of our ladies, would you please stop by that table and make sure you get One of those three titles of books and then the pen and the pad. Just again, a little gift of appreciation Um hope it'll be a great encouragement to you. And you know the scripture is very clear about honor thy father and thy mother. And so we have a responsibility and a privilege to honor those who cared for us when nobody else would. You know, and and what a what a picture. There's a great deal of likeness to the Lord in godly motherhood. There's a beautiful picture drawn there. But I want you to take your Bibles and consider a passage of Scripture that really emphasizes mother. And it's in what I would think is an unusual place. It's found in the Gospel of John, chapter number 19. But in this one instance, the Lord elevates mothers if for no other reason the fact that he would address this issue as he's dying on the cross for the sins of the whole world. In John chapter 19, verse number 25, I invite you to stand with me, please, as we read God's Word. As I'm reading these verses, note how many times the title Mother is used. John 19, verse 25 says, Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother. And his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple standing by whom he loved He saith unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son. Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother. And from that hour that disciple took her unto his own home. You notice five times the scripture uses the word mother. I do not believe God puts anything in the Bible accidentally. It's all there on purpose. And our Lord makes an emphasis here on mother at the cross. And so I want to preach on that, being a mother at the cross, the Lord helping me. this morning. Father, do undertake for the great need of our hearts in this place. We come a needy people. We ask, Lord, that you would help both the preacher and the hearer We pray above all things the Lord Jesus would have his way and be preeminent in this gathering. Lord help us and turn our eyes on things above. Lord, help us for a few minutes to forget all those things that perhaps would distract or take our minds away from just simply getting help from you. And Lord, may we open our hearts to what you have for us. Father, help us this morning, not just go through another church service and go home and it be another Sunday. But let this be a good day where we hear the voice of God speak to our hearts personally. And then we yield accordingly and let you have your will and way in our lives. And Lord, we'll thank you for all that you do, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. Both Matthew and Mark mention this instance except for the mentions of Jesus dealing with his mother. They mention the women who were there at the cross, but they do not give us the details that John does. And as John reveals to us, and I believe first partly because It was a personal exchange between him and the Lord. But as he gives us these details, we find the Lord doing something That elevates motherhood, it lifts motherhood and says this is a significant position in our society Our Lord, let me remind you, is now dying for sin. In fact, if we understand timing correctly, he is very near those last words. He's very close to saying, It is finished, and bowing his head and giving up the ghost. He's very close to taking his last breath. on this earth before he sheds his last drop of blood so that mankind could have a savior in himself. He he's that's the setting of what's going on. That's what's taking place. The Bible says that he on the cross was reconciling us to God. The Bible tells me that it was there that my sin debt was paid completely and in full. It was there that a great transaction is going on between earth and heaven And the Lord Jesus is reaching down with one hand and taking fallen man and reaching up with the other and taking holy God and bringing the two together. What a solemn thing is happening. But before that's finished, before that transaction is done. He says, I want you to take care of my mother. And he acknowledges Mary and her presence at the cross. I want you to notice a few things about this, and may it be a challenge to us. I want you to notice the closeness of his mother. In verse 25, the Bible says there stood by the cross of Jesus, his mother. The words that and the phrase that is used to make this description means she was right there next to it. She's close. And as we think about what's going on here, I want to remind you that this is stated not simply for a proximity purpose. The Bible is never a book filled with useless details. Never. The Bible is not a book to satisfy mere carnal curiosity. There are spiritual truths that are in this book. And so the Bible explicitly says she stood by the cross of Jesus. Listen to this morning. What we see here is a picture of someone who is near her Savior. The Bible says in Luke chapter 1 that she rejoiced in God my Savior. Mary had such a unique relationship with the Lord Jesus in this way She was the earthly vessel that would bear him into this world, but she was also a sinner who needed to be born again, just like everybody else. And because of her faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, she too was a Christian. She too had been saved. Let me remind you this morning. That the best place for every saved person to be, be you man or woman, is close to the Lord Jesus Christ. I find it interesting that when we find Mary, that is where we seem to always find her. She seems to be always near the Savior. Oh, dear friend, this morning, as we think about our mothers, there's no greater treasure than to have a mother who's near the Lord Jesus Christ. There's there's nothing someone said no man's poor who's had a Christian mother. And I believe that's true There's no listen, the reality is that you are wealthy beyond what money can purchase if you have a mother who stays close to the Lord Jesus Christ. She was close to her Savior Then I want you to notice something else. She was, this also described her state. And I'm talking about her spiritual condition. The Bible says she stood by the cross. Oh, dear friend, what a picture is being drawn here. All the disciples have forsook him and fled. There were two times in Jesus' ministry when the only people who stayed were these women, in fact, this group. Her spiritual condition was such that she just had to be close. She had to be near. The hymn writer picked up on that and wrote, Jesus, keep me near the cross. Being near the cross is a spiritual condition. Being a Christian who's right with the Lord, who who can be who can say of themselves, there's nothing between my soul and my Savior. That don't happen on accident Dear friend, when how many of you know this morning when you got up you had to do a little maintenance before you came to church? When you got when you got up and looked in the mirror, you I I'm sure you wasn't as pretty as you are right now. I'm sure there had to be some taming of of your hair and some working on Other uh portions. There had to be some work done. And if you're going to stay close with the Lord, there's got to be some work done. There's got to be what the Bible says in 1 John 1 9, if we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Keep short accounts with the Lord. Stay close to the Lord Jesus Christ. Be an individual who doesn't let distance come. Between you and the Lord. And the good news is here this morning, maybe you are a Christian. You've been saved by grace, but you've let some distance come between you and Him. In our Bibles, in Luke chapter 15, we read about a young fellow who went away from his father, and he went out into the world and began to live And it was in that hogpin he realized, hey, my father's servants are doing better than me. I'm going to go home. And when he started home, I don't know that he started home as quickly as he did when he left home. Maybe he's coming home with a a broken heart. He's coming home with tattered clothes. He's coming home with empty pockets. He's not in good shape. And maybe he's a little reluctant. He's thinking, well, my father's going to chew me out, and I deserve it, and I've got to get my speech ready. So here's what I'm going to say. Father, I've sinned against you. And he said, Father, would you make me as one of your servants? And he started and he rehearsed his speech, he said it over and over again. in his mind. Maybe he kicked the rocks as he tried to walk back home. But then when he got close he noticed on the horizon there was someone coming his way, and he was really moving The scripture says it like this, and he ran. The father ran. The son didn't run, but the father did, and the father ran and fell upon his neck and kissed him and had compassion on him. and welcomed him home. I'm here to tell you today, you may be out in the far country, but there's a father who will run your way if you'll turn his direction. You know why? Because he loves you. He loves us be i in in words listen in ways beyond our comprehension. Carl Sandberg was a Man of history, a man in our past, a statesman from North Carolina. And when we were little, we'd have to go or younger in school, they'd take us on a field trip to Carl Sandberg's home And it was just a modest little cabin up under a place called Buzzard Roost. And it was there that great statesman was born. But there was a plaque that always got my attention. Carl Sandberg said As long as I lived, as far as I traveled, I could always come home to mother. He said, no matter what disaster, and if you study his life, there were a few No matter what disaster came my way, he said I could put my head on my mother's lap and she would console me with her love. And when I read that even as a little boy, I thought, you know, that's kind of like my God. Because my Lord is a Lord who's full of compassion and mercy and grace. And dear friend, he is looking for that prodigal to come home. This mother didn't have to come home. She stayed close to the Lord. I challenge you this morning. The closeness of his mother not only speaks of her being close to the Savior and her spiritual condition, but she stands as a shining example. Nowhere in our Bibles are we instructed to worship Mary. Nowhere in our Bibles are we called to uh revere her or to elevate her. Above others in the sense that we make her something the Bible does not, but I'll tell you what she is. She's a good example She was an example in the birth of Christ. She was an example in the life of Christ. She was an example even in the death of Christ. She was someone who stayed near the Savior. Can I ask you this morning, is that you? Are you a mother who's near? Are you a person who's near the Lord Jesus Christ? Is that your goal in life, to draw close to him? Here's what Paul said. He said, I have one goal. Here's my goal. That I may know him. He said, that's what I want to do. I want to live so that I can know him. You know at the end of this thing that's all that's gonna matter. It's not going to matter what you did or accomplished or what you own or What you have or don't have, what's going to matter is, did you know the Lord? And are you close to him? That's all that really matters We see the closeness of his mother. Then I want you to see something else. I want you to see the companions to his mother. Do you notice the Bible identifies these, some say four or three. We have Mary, of course, and then his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene. It's interesting that her sister was there. And as I thought about that, I realized that you know God often works in families. It may be that you're the only family, you say, preacher, I'm the only Christian in my family. Well, take heart, it may be that God's going to work through you. I don't doubt that Mary had an influence on her sister. That somehow or another her testimony and her witness had an impact on her sister. Who better to reach your family than you? I I encourage you, dear mothers, maybe your days of child rearing are over, but but listen, there's still an example for you to set, maybe for your grandchildren or your great-grandchildren They need to see in you an example of the Lord Jesus Christ. Here, Mary, she had an opportunity, I believe, to reach her sister, to be an influence upon her sister. God was working there in her family. But she was also surrounded by this group of ladies, and one of them is identified as Mary Magdalene. And the Bible tells us she was a woman out of whom Jesus cast seven devils. In other words, she was a woman in whom grace had transformed her life. Can I remind you, dear ladies, that there needs to be surrounding you those who are saved by the grace of God? This is a good crowd to get your companions from. People who know the Lord. Look, you need friends who will pray for you. And friends who will encourage you spiritually. In the Bible we read of two kinds of friends, good ones and bad ones. In the Bible, we read of Amnon and his friend. We read of others in the Bible who were not good friends. Job had friends that come and they weren't that good of friends. But Mary had some good friends, people surrounding her that were saved by the grace of God. Then let me remind you that these ladies We're all on the same page. You say, what do you mean by that? If you take the time to study this, you'll find out that they were always together doing something with or for the Lord. When you see one, you saw the other. They were on the same page. They were the next time you see them, guess where they're at? They're going to the empty tomb. Now they don't know it's empty yet, but that's where they're headed. And they're going together. They had this companionship fixed around the person of the Lord Jesus Christ Oh dear friend, we live in a world where, you know what, friendship is so fickle and people are so flighty, but the reality is we need to build friendships around the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. What a friendship is built when Jesus Christ is the object, when he's the foundation. As a local church, we have the privilege of coming together and meeting with God's people. And to worship him together and and to build our companionship not not around our personal preferences, not around our personalities, not around those things that we like or dislike, but around the Lamb of God Who took took away our sin and takes away the sin of the whole world. What a privilege it is to build on such a thing. By the way, that's what heaven's going to be. Heaven is going to be a place where all of our exercises, all of our fellowship, all of our worship, all of our experience is going to be around Jesus Christ. In our study in Revelation, wasn't it magnified that He's right at the heart of everything? That every eye's on Him, every lip is praising Him. Every song is sung to him, every hand is lifted to him, every face is bowed before him. He is the object and the center and the he's the whole of heaven. And so she had her companions. Her companions were those that were saved by the grace of God. She was encircled. But I want you to notice this this morning. I want you to notice the compassion of Jesus. And I believe it's magnified a thousand times over. By the way that it took place and the place in which it took place. As I've said already, here he is dying for the sin of the whole world. Now, to understand this, this is near the end of his life on earth. So the heavens have already, the lights have been turned out, and now they're turned back on. The Bible tells us there was darkness over the face of the earth, and I believe during this exchange that there that that that Experience that that light had been turned back on. And Jesus is getting ready to cry his last cry and speak his last words. And do you notice what the Bible says? He saw His mother? Look at it with me, please. In verse number 26, the Bible says, When Jesus therefore saw his mother Folks, something more important than anything you can imagine is taking place at this moment. God 's making a way for souls to be saved. God is making the sacrifice of Himself for sinners. And in the midst of that, he sees his mother. He saw her. He looks, and there she is. This is not a seeing of, oh, I didn't realize you were there. This is a look of awareness. He saw her. Understand something this morning, Mother. He sees you. When Hagar was cast out of Abraham's presence, Sarah was upset and jealous because she now is with child. And Ishmael will soon be born. And she's she's looking at him with some uh or or looking rather at her, Sarah's looking at her with some disdain. And Abraham says, Well do What you want to with her. And so she the Bible says she treated her harshly. And because of that, she flees. Hagar flees out into the wilderness. And it's while she's out in the wilderness, God speaks to her. And do you remember what she called that place? Here's what she called it. The interpretation of it is the Hebrew word really doesn't matter at this moment. But what matters is here's what she said. She said, This is the place where thou God seest me. She said I I was really mistreated and it was of her no I mean it wasn't her fault. And she was not Listen, she was really misused and yet she said, God, you saw me, because he spoke to her and told her she'd have a son Now I'm going somewhere. Think with me this morning. Sometimes the most invisible people in our culture are the most important. We live in an age where it seems like motherhood is just sort of looked down upon Mothers are looked at as being not important. Hold on. Dear mother. Whatever the world thinks does not matter. Here's what matters. God sees you. And God sees you perhaps in your heartache, and he sees you. In your struggle, he sees you. In your perplexity, thank God He sees you and He knows who you are and what you need. Thou God seest me. He saw Mary. Now, beloved, I don't know what was going through Mary's heart outside of what Simeon said when he was born. Simeon said that he'll pierce, your heart will be pierced. And I believe that was a prophecy of the cross. I believe that as she stood there, her heart was broken in ways that we cannot imagine as she watched not only her Savior die, but she watched her son die too. And yet, Jesus saw her. I want you to know something. You're not invisible to him. I'm glad there's an eye that is upon his people. Like the old song says, his eye is on the sparrow, and I know he watches over me. I'm glad he sees us. He sees you, dear mother. He sees you in all your burdens. He sees and all the misunderstanding. He sees and all what a picture of compassion. He's dying for the sin of the whole world How many of you get tunnel vision when you're doing something real important? I mean you get locked in and you don't see anything else going on. I was doing something the other day and I ran fair into something I knew was there, hit my head, knocked me on the ground And I got mad at it at first, and then I realized, dummy, you knew it was there. You just weren't paying attention. I was so focused, I had to get this done. And I was charging through and bam! There he goes your Now listen, Jesus is doing something more important than it's ever been done on this earth. And yet in the midst of that, the compassion of his heart was such that he saw his mother. And I'm saying to you that our God in heaven, who runs all things and holds all things together, is not turning a blind eye or so busy that you are out of his view. He sees you too. And if you're lost today, he sees you as one for whom he shed his blood for. If you're saved today and astray, he sees you as a prodigal who's out and away from the Father. If you're struggling today, burdened, brokenhearted, whatever the condition may be, he sees you. He saw his mother. Man, what a picture of compassion. Her plight was not hidden from his eyes. Now I'm glad to report to you there's nothing hid from the eyes of him who sees all and knows all. That's a comforting thought, and that's a convicting thought. It's comforting to know that he sees all things, the things that are unseen and unknown. It's convicting because he sees all things and he sees what's unknown. Thank God he's a God who sees. Then secondly, I want you to notice something else. He's a God that saith. Look what it says. Verse 26, he saith unto his mother. He speaks. He's speaking to her about a particular concern. He's speaking to her about direction. He's speaking to her. And what he had to say, I'm sure, brought peace. You understand something at this point, Joseph is dead. Mary's a widow. She has no one to care for her. And in those days, she had no social structure to fall back on. She had to have somebody, family, who would take her in and care for her. The one who had been doing that for 33 and a half years is now about to leave. And now that he's about to leave, she's someone who's needing someone to care for her. And aren't you glad that when our Lord would look her way, that he would speak to her, and what he had to say would have to do with her current situation, give her direction for the future, and put peace in her heart? If I can say it like this, he's saying it's going to be okay. Some of you need to hear him say that to you this morning. A good friend of mine was down Mississippi where he lived, and he is an evangelist and traveled around preaching, and he had gone through a real trial, some real battles in his ministry. He'd had some real fights and there were just people opposing him and trying to just really get him to stop preaching. And he came home on a Saturday, and oddly enough, son, he and his dad were going to get a haircut. And his he was driving, his dad said, You drive the old truck, son. And they started down the road. Now his dad had been saved for a while, but he did not have the privilege of education. The man couldn't read. But as they're riding along, he noticed, like dads do, that his son's heart was burdened, and he said, Son, you okay? He said, Well, dad, and he started just pouring out his heart. And he told him the things that were going on. And he said his dad just listened for a little while, and he said he took those big weathered hands and he put them over on his, he had his hand on the gear shift, and he put his hand over his hand. He said, Son I don't know, but doesn't it say over there in the Bible somewhere, it's going to be okay? He said I stopped and thought of a million verses at the moment. He said, my dear old dad didn't know the Bible, but he knew the man who wrote it. And he said he expressed a truth that said over and over and again in the Word of God, yes, it's going to be okay. If you're a child of God, there's a God in heaven who's pledged himself to your care. There's a God in heaven who's able and capable and who's m- Listen, He's not going to forsake you He said, I will not leave you comfortless, I will come to you. Aren't you thankful that there's a God who still speaks And every once in a while when I need a word from heaven, I open this old book and God has something to say, and it's relevant to right where I am. You dear mothers understand this. You've got a guidebook to raise them children with. I used to preach this. I said, man, I wish kids come with an owner's manual. I wish they came with some sort of instructions as to what to do with them, you know, other than take them to an orphanage. I wish they had and you know what I was reading in my Bible one day and I read over there in Proverbs, I think it's chapter seventeen. And Solomon was writing of his father David, who taught him good doctrine. You know what I found out? I got a Bible to tell me how. The owner manual for life is this book. And the voice of heaven comes from the Scripture. And the words God has to say to me today will come off the pages of this blessed old Bible. And so let me encourage you this evening, or this morning rather, that that beloved listen, God has something to say to you. If you're lost, he's saying this, I will save you. And whatever the need of your heart may be, God has something particular. That he wants to say to you. So Jesus saw her and he spoke to her, and then he said something about a son. You'll notice what he said in verse 26 Woman, behold thy son. Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother. And from that hour that disciple took her unto his own home. Yet what he was doing for her, he was meeting a need. He was meeting a need. He was doing something in her life. She's in a place where she's going to now be left with no one. And she's going to be left in a situation where there's no one to care for her or to take care and to meet her needs and what have you. Joseph is dead. Now Jesus is leaving this earth, but he said to John, John, she's yours. Now we know not from the scripture, but we know historically it's believed that Mary lived about fifteen more years, and she did so under the care of John. John met her need. John cared for. I believe John points us to a greater son. John points us to not just a son spelt with the little s. He points her to the greater son. He's a picture of the greater son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Beloved, hear me this morning. He is all you need. Jesus Christ is all you need. You say, Well, preacher, I need this, that, and the other. Well, when you boil all that down, the reality is you need him. You need him. He is, listen, he is all that your heart needs. If you're not saved, friend, he's the Savior. Understand that heaven's not obtained by the denomination that you choose. Salvation is obtained through the person of the Lord Jesus Christ who comes along and saves you. And does the work of grace in your heart and life. And it may be today that you have never trusted the Lord Jesus Christ. And as I'm preaching the gospel , God the Holy Spirit is working in your heart and you realize that, hey, I'm lost, and there's no way that I could ever go to heaven uh on on what I do and what I've done. But I need forgiveness and I need a Savior, and Jesus Christ died for your sin. He was buried, rose again the third day, and he'll save whosoever will. And that means you. And in this very place and at this very moment, you could call upon the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved. People say, well, preacher, I don't know what to pray. Understand this, it's not in what you pray, it's the one to whom you pray. A cry for help doesn't have to be an oratorical discourse. It doesn't have to be a beautiful thing. Man, if you're drowning and you know it, you can just utter a cry. It may just be a mere weak whisper. It may be nothing more than a cry of the heart saying, Oh Lord. But I'm glad there's a God in heaven who hear it. And not only hear it, but he'll answer it. And he'll save you, my friend. You do not have to go to hell. There is a Savior, and His name is Jesus Christ. Thank God that the Son of God is the one we need to look to this morning. And dear Christian, just because you're saved doesn't mean you can stop looking. You're not kept saved by your power, but I'll tell you what, you're kept strong by looking to Jesus. Hebrews 12 tells us looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. The way we live our Christian life is by looking to the Lord. Just as Mary had to look to John for her temporal needs, we can look to the Lord Jesus for all of our needs, and we can believe and trust in Him. Nobody here is alone if you're saved. Nobody here has been left abandoned. Nobody here is walking this old highway towards heaven all by yourself. If you're saved by the grace of God, there's one whose pledge, I'll never leave thee nor forsake thee. Thank God for the Lord Jesus who's near What a picture is Jesus is dying here as he takes a moment to deal with his mother. It's a picture of compassion. It's a picture of mercy. I'll tell you, it's a picture of God just being good because God's good. God's just demonstrating his goodness one more time before he exits this old world and saying, I want you to know nobody is out of my view. Nobody is out from under my care. I'm looking. Could it be today he's looking for you? Could it be today you're that one who needs the Lord Jesus and he's looking for you? The Bible tells us a parable, and it's beautiful, in fact. He leaves ninety-nine little sheep and goes looking for one who's out in the wilderness. And I'll tell you, he finds what he's looking for. He gets it, and when he gets it, he puts it on his shoulder and he heads home. And when he heads home, he says, Rejoice with me. I found that which was lost. Maybe you're the one he's looking for. I don't believe in accidents, I believe a God, there's a God in control. And it may be that if you don't know the Lord Jesus, you're here on purpose, just so that you might hear of what He did for you. He loves you like you're his own only child. He died for you. He shed his blood for you. He'll forgive your sin. He paid the ransom in full. He's a mighty Savior, you say, but There's you might have all kinds of excuses, but know this, they're all dissolved and resolved in the person of Jesus Christ. All your can 'ts are answered in He can. He can. Maybe you're that prodigal. You're saved that you've gotten away from the Lord. He's looking for you too. In fact of the matter is he's ready to start running your direction, if you'll but come to him And dear brother, sister, maybe your burden, your heart's heavy, you're carrying the load, you're battling the battle. Understand this. If he took time in those dying moments, To care for his mother. Don't you think he'll take time for you today? Don't you think that he exalted in heaven above Sitting at the right hand of the Father, ever living to make intercession, will not come to you and meet that need, whatever it may be. He most definitely will. Because we have a high priest, and you know what? You can touch him with the feelings of your infirmities. Thank God for the Lord Jesus. He is what we need today. I'm going to invite you to stand with me, our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. Brother, come with our hymn of invitation. Be prepared