Please, and go with me to the Gospel of Luke, Luke chapter number two. And I'd like to read the first seven verses in your hearing. Our text is going to come from verse number seven. And I want to just be very simple and practical here this evening. And give you some thoughts on how to keep Christ in your Christmas. Luke chapter number two, and beginning in verse number one, if you found your place, let's stand together, read the Word of God. Luke chapter number two, verse number one, the Bible says, And it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus. that all the world should be taxed. And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria. And all went to be taxed, every one into his own city. And Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. Because he was of the house and lineage of David. Now let me stop in my reading there and say, I want you to see how God used a wicked government to accomplish his will. And God can do that, can't he? He's still God and he he can he can use uh something that that no one likes, like taxes to get his people where they're supposed to be. That's what he did here. Now verse number five, please. To be taxed with Mary, his espoused wife, being great with child. And so it was that while they were there the days were accomplished that she should be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger. Because there was no room for them in the inn. And I want you to see that phrase, very familiar phrase, but I want you to think on it with me tonight. There was no room for them in the inn. Heavenly Father, help us now. We need you, and Lord, we bow our heads before you. Both the preacher and the hearer needs help from heaven tonight. And I pray, Lord, you'll grant it. Lord, in these moments we have together, turn our eyes on thee. And Lord, we'll thank you for what you do. Help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. I thank you that, Lord, I can say you're my God. You're my Savior. And Lord, I love you. I want to love you more. Help me. But I do love you, and I thank you for loving the likes of me. I thank you for the time that we have this evening. Lord, please just Bless this time in such a way that we'll walk away from here saying it's been good to be in the house of the Lord. And Father, for what you do, we'll give you the glory, for we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said Amen. You seated. I I want you to look at that statement. And I think a lot of times when we read our Bibles We need to slow down and think about what we're reading. And this is one of those places where we need to really just think about what's being said here. There was no room for them in the end. Now have you ever stopped and asked yourself about this thing? Why why was there no room? Why was there no room? Well, I I I want to remind you that the whole world, it seemed, was on the move. This decree from Caesar Augustus had put everybody afoot, and so they're scurrying here trying to get back to the place of their birth to be counted. They're trying to get to those places. And because of all the travel and what have you, there was literally no room. But I want to remind you of something that the Bible says Mary was great with child. I don't know about you, but you've got to stop and think about whoever it was that turned them away from the inn We gotta ask ourselves what was wrong with them. Number one, they obviously lacked compassion. They lack compassion. You know this with without really having to belabor the point. You know when a person is like the Bible described Mary. Great with child. It was probably very evident that this baby was coming and this baby was going to come soon. And I'm thinking, is there not somebody who could give up a bed? Is there not someone somewhere that could say, hey, uh, you know, I I'll take the the manger, I'll take the stable, I'll go to the place where the animals are kept? And and let this woman who's great with child have a place. But obviously, there was no compassion. I believe when I think about whoever turned Mary away, that there was also a lot of chaos and confusion. You've got to realize that we you've got people moving, I mean, multitudes of people. And there's people traveling and and if you've ever traveled on a holiday, you know what a nightmare that is Everybody's trying to get somewhere, and everybody's wanting to be there yesterday, and and there's all this the stress that comes with that, and so there's a whole lot of chaos and confusion when traveling begins. That's going on at this time. Perhaps there were so many people coming and going and so much happening that in the i it just in the whole heat of the moment This uh this person who turned Mary away would would just simply uh just not know what else to do. They're just sort of at their wits in. There's so much chaos and confusion. I'm speculating, but I want you to think about this situation. Maybe they were just simply cold. Cold of the reality that here's someone who's about to have a baby and the manger is not going to be a good place to lay it. And and and I know, I know you're saying, but preacher, uh it it was the plan of God, and I know it was the plan of God, but But the sad statement in the whole affair here is that there simply was no room for him in the end. But not a lot has changed. Not a lot has changed because we're living in a day where there's not a whole lot of room for Jesus anywhere. There's not a lot of room for him in the very celebration that we attribute to his birth And what a sad thing it is that there's no room. And like I said this morning, if there's no Christ, there's no reason to celebrate If there was no birth, there's no hope. If there was no coming to this earth and and no being born, and you say, but preacher We're not commanded to celebrate the birth of Christ. We're not commanded, but we sure have some examples of individuals who celebrated the birth of the Lord Jesus. We've got a lot of examples. The angels in heaven celebrated. Simeon and Anna celebrated. The shepherds celebrated. And of course Mary and Joseph celebrated the reality that the Lord Jesus had come to this earth. But I'm going to help you tonight and help me and call us back to just some simple things that will help us keep Christ at the heart of our Christmas. And the truth is that these practical things are not only good for the holiday season, but they're good for every day of the year. Because it's awful easy to get busy living for Christ and forget Him. It's awful easy to get caught up being a Christian and and leave out the Lord Jesus from all of our activities. If you're making notes, I want you to note number one, we ought to read the Bible deliberately. Read the Bible deliberately. You know, we've got a book that reveals the Lord Jesus. The Bible tells me that we are changed. from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. And what brings about that change? What makes that transformation take place. Well, Romans 12 says, and be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. The Bible is not a book meant to swell your head. It's meant to change your life. The Bible is not a book that loads you up with information. The Bible is meant to be used by God for a transformation. This book, it reveals the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, preacher, I want to meet with the Lord. Open the Bible. That's where it starts. Read your Bible deliberately. I know we're a little bit behind. What is it? December the eighth? But if you take the 24 days preceding Christmas, you can read a chapter out of the Gospel of Luke and read a chapter each day and cover the entire life of Jesus Christ. And boy, what better way to focus on the Lord Jesus than to deliberately read your Bible and read what's written about Him. Listen, Psalms are good to read. Proverbs are good to read. All scriptures given by inspiration of God. But every once in a while I need my eyes turned back on the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. You've got four gospels in your Bible that Paint the portrait that tell the story that lay it out very clearly. And so let's read our Bibles deliberately. Focus on the life of Christ. Maybe you want to take up that challenge. And read a chapter out of the Gospel of Luke each day. I believe we ought to focus on his birth. You've got two very detailed accounts Of the birth and early days of the Lord Jesus found the Gospel of Matthew and in the Gospel of Luke. Mark says nothing John simply gives us heaven's point of view. He tells us about the word that was made flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. But it would be good as we read our Bibles deliberately to take those accounts of Matthew and Luke and compare them and study them and read them together. Begin to look at them and ask questions, why and and and and and why did it happen like this and and where did this happen and what's going on and And and really get your eyes and thoughts and minds. I just wonder, and I'm not going to do it for embarrassment's sake, but I wonder how many Christians really study their Bible. I'm not talking about studying for a lesson or studying for a message, but just studying for your own sake. And just saying, I want to know more about you. You say, Well, preacher, I already know it all. Well, hold on a minute. They only know it all well just don't know it all, do they? But we need to focus on his birth. Take some time to cover those scriptures. Have you ever read those accounts? back to back and read what Matthew wrote and what Luke wrote and then compared them together? Have you ever looked at how different one account is from the other in the sense of the details that are included? The same story is told, but from different perspective. And it'll do us good during these days. Even these special days to focus on the account of the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. And then let me say this as we read the Bible deliberately, focus on the living Christ. See, this book isn't a memorial about a long-deceased loved one. This book is not a history book about someone who lived and died and is no more. This book is a living book, and it represents a living Savior. And it's on the pages of the Bible that you meet the Lord Jesus Christ. He's alive. And and when you open the Bible, you hear the voice of heaven speaking to your heart. You hear the voice of the Lord. This is the only book I know of that the author is present every time you read it. It's the only book I know about that when you open it up and start reading it, right there's the author, and he's ready to reveal himself and make himself known. Don't get so hurried in the reading of the Word of God that you forget the God of the Word that you're reading about and focus on the living Christ. I'm glad the story didn't stop in a stable or a manger. I'm glad the story didn't end with a cross, a bloody cross. I'm glad the story didn't end with a tomb. I'm glad it didn't listen, in fact the story's not over yet. There's more to come. The Bible, if you when you read the Word of God, when Jesus went up into heaven, he did so with the clear understanding that the same Jesus who went up into heaven will come again in like manner. So focus on the living Christ. Read your Bible deliberately. Might be a good idea, a purpose in your heart right now. To have some sort of plan of how you're going to read your Bible this month. And get and get through the book of Luke and and And learn of the life of Christ and study the accounts of Matthew and Luke of the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ and learn something about it and always go to the Bible. Not with a dull student mentality, but with a worshipper 's attitude With an adorer's heart, with an understanding that here I'm not trying to fortify my mind for argument. I'm not trying to fill my head with facts. I want to meet with you, O Lord. I want you to come and work and speak and deal with my heart. Because what I need, Lord, you are what I need. And I'm glad these words, his word, are spirit and they're life. And the life of God is communicated through the precious word of God. So read the Bible deliberately. Let me say quickly, number two, pray fervently. Just pray fervently. Martin Luther said these words: I have so much to do that I shall spend the first three hours in prayer. You know, oftentimes the things that men don't see get neglected first when we get busy. Nobody knows if you pray or not, really. But we ought to take time to pray. Someone said prayer is breathing heaven's atmosphere. Sometimes you just need to breathe heaven's atmosphere. Sometimes you just need to get in the presence of God and unburden your heart and worship the Lord and give him the praise that he's worthy of. And just spend time. Take time to pray fervently. We ought to talk frequently with the Lord. You know, I I love to study about Mr. Spurgeon, and the best I can figure, Mr. Spurgeon was not a man who spent a great deal of time at one moment in prayer. But it's written in several places that he often would shoot his arrows heavenward. He would pray short, quick prayers and do so frequently. I'm saying, I'm saying not only take the time to pray, but talk to God frequently. You know, there's a lot of opportunities that we pass up to talk to the Lord. If you're making any length of drive, You can take that time to pray. Just watch and pray. Alright? Don't close your eyes and pray. Watch and pray. Now the way some of you drive, I think you close your eyes and you fervently pray. But you need to watch and pray. Keep your little eyes open, but be talking to the Lord. That's an opportunity You get an opportunity, you get a you get a break in a in your job or a uh uh just a moment, uh a lull uh uh uh during some business. It it's an opportunity just to lift your heart. You don't even have to lift your voice, you can lift your heart to the Lord. I'm glad we serve a God who hears and knows even the thoughts of the heart. And and we don't have to always verbalize our prayers and put them into words that men can hear. Oftentimes the most earnest prayers Or prayed like Hannah prayed when she prayed for that boy. Said her lips moved. There was no sound And the priest thought that, you know, here this lady's she's intoxicated. But oh no, she was just pouring her heart out. She was unbearing, unburdened her heart. She was laying her heart out to the Lord. We ought to talk frequently to the Lord. Every opportunity we get, we ought to be talking to the Lord. Listen. Pray fervently. I'm talking about keeping Christ at the center of our Christmas. And then we ought to pray or try, as I have here in my notes, try fervently. That word's interesting to me. It's the word energio, which literally means an inward earnestness coupled with energy. Best way I know to say it is put some heart to it. Put some heart to it. Pray. James chapter 5 says the effectual, fervent prayer. Of a righteous man availeth much. I mean a prayer that means business. Sometimes our prayers just don't mean mi business. If you're yawning while you're praying, you might want to make sure you mean in business about what you're saying. Sometimes we say our prayers. We need to just stop saying our prayers. And we need to start praying with a fervency that says, Oh Lord, I need to get a hold of you. I need to get a hold of you. You know it's strange, you know, you go through times of life. And it's strange as as you get older, your children grow up, and now the shoes on the other foot. You know, I used to say, now make sure you text me and call me and tell me where you're at. Now they're doing that to us. And I'm not used to reporting. And so I don't think about that, you know. When you're going somewhere, they'll say, Now now make sure you let us know when you get there. The other night we got in, we we didn't think of nothing, we're tired and getting ready to go to bed and And all of a sudden our phones are blowing up. You home? Did you get there? Are you safe? All that? I'm like, come on, we're fifty plus years old. Sure we're okay. If you if we weren't okay, we'd tell you It does make you feel good, amen, that you're somewhat cared for in that way. But but you know something? I I I'm grateful I am grateful that when I talk to the Lord, I can do it with a thubotsy. I didn't mean business about that thing I can get serious and and and it don't bother the Lord at all for you to to repeatedly reach out and say, Lord, I I need you. Lord I I I'm calling on you. Lord I'm pouring my heart out to you And you'll know this as you study the prayers of the Bible, the ones that got answered are always fervent prayers. They're prayers that had the energy of heart behind them. The emptying of someone's soul, the pouring out of their heart. They're saying, oh Lord. And you know, you think about these prayers, they're not often, they often are not very beautiful. They're not appealing to the ear. They may not even at times be theologically completely accurate, but they're the earnest cry of the heart. See, Peter, when he was sinking, didn't have time to pray a theological expression in such a way that sounded beautiful to the ears of men. He's sinking, he's dying, he says, Lord, save me. And what did the Lord do? Lord saved him. The man who stood in the temple praying with a broken heart over sin beat his chest and said, Lord, be merciful to me a sinner. His prayer wasn't eloquent, his prayer wasn't long, but his prayer was earnest, and his prayer was fervent, and his prayer was answered. The man who prayed the beautiful prayer, and the man who prayed the prayer that tickled everybody's ears was not heard in heaven, wasn't he recognized. But that man who said, Oh Lord, have mercy, I'm a sinner. Lord, have mercy on me a sinner. That prayer got the attention of God, and the Bible says that man went home justified. I'm saying pray fervently. Church, we ought to pray fervently in these days. Prayer is one thing that connects you with heaven. It's one of those privileges that are given to the redeemed. Now listen, it's a privilege. Now I can't find in my Bible where God hears a lost man's prayer except when he cries out for mercy. I don't find a promise. I'll say that. I don't find a promise. But I do find many promises that God will hear his children. And it's a privilege to be a child of God. Listen, do you realize that you can go into the presence of God by prayer through the Lord Jesus at any time, in any place, in any situation, if you're born again by his grace? He's opened a door. He's opened a door, and not only that, he's given a strong invitation to come boldly under the throne of grace that you may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. He says, come, come often, come when you will, as you will, come because this is a throne of grace where you can obtain what you need in that time. Isn't that a privilege? I read of a one of our presidents. In fact, I've read of it of actually on three occasions there were presidents who told their children they were allowed to interrupt them anytime. That whatever the situation, whatever the the the problem, it doesn't matter how big or how small, you can come. Come into my office and and you can talk. That's a pretty noble thing, in my opinion. I I think it's it's it's a it's a wonderful thing that a child knows that it can go to its father. But I've got a heavenly father. And if you're saved, you have a heavenly father. And you can go to that father at any time. Listen, it isn't going to bother him if you call upon him at midnight, for he neither slumbers nor sleeps It doesn't bother the Father. If you go to him, it doesn't matter the hour. It doesn't matter the circumstance. It doesn't matter the situation. He's not going to throw his hands up in exasperation. He's going to extend his arms of mercy and welcome you to come into his presence because, beloved, listen, he's made a way for you to pray. Oh, thank God for prayer. Keep Christ in your Christmas by praying fervently. Spend time with the Lord. Spend much time with the Lord. Number three, I believe we ought to worship faithfully. I'm talking about keeping Christ in our Christmas, keeping centered and focused on the Lord Jesus Christ. Not only do I need to read my Bible deliberately and pray fervently, but ought to worship faithfully Hebrews 10, 25 tells us not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together. But we're to so much the more as we see the day approaching. So much the more. And church, we're living in so much more days. I believe we're living in the so much more. We don't need less church. We need more church. We don't need less assembling. We need more assembling. We don't need less time as the people of God. We need more. Can I say something about that tonight? You ought to plan on being in church. If it's always up for discussion, you won't be very faithful. It could happen, you know. How many of you have been promised? Well, I might be there. You know what that means, don't you? That means you ain't gonna see me I might be. I hope to be. How many of you heard that one? I hope to be. I hope to be. Well somehow or another, hopes always get dashed. Never happens. But how many of you know if you plan on being if you plan on doing something? You'll do it. You plan on it. Don't plan on being in the Lord's house. I know there's a lot of things going on, but let me say this. There is nothing going on more important than meeting with God's people in God's house under God's word. Nothing. And listen, you make the list, and I can honestly say there's nothing more important than meeting and assembling in obedience to the Lord. Don't plan on being in church. Lord, purposefully attend. Purposefully attend. Why do you come to church? If somebody were to stop you out here on the sidewalk and say, hey, what are you going in that building for? What would you say? I mean, a lot of times people say, well, I'm just because it's what I've done for 40 years. I'm just doing what I always do on Sunday because it's time and I gotta go. But let me ask you, what's your purpose? What's your purpose in being in church? What's your purpose in sitting on these pews? What's your purpose in in in being a part of this assembly? Let me tell you something. Our purpose ought to be, Lord, number one, I'm coming to obey you and glorify you. But Lord, I'm coming to hear from you. I want to get something from heaven. Now look, you can say, well, I didn't get nothing out of that service. Well, did you come looking for it? You get about I found this out. You get about what you go looking for. If you come looking for trouble, you gonna find it. If you come looking for fault, you're going to find it. If you come looking for something to be upset about, you're going to find it. If you come looking for all the other things, you're going to find it. But if you come looking, Lord, I'm coming with the empty cup. Hey, have you ever noticed how hungry people eat and don't pay attention to what they're eating? They're just hungry. And they're going to eat We're at the mission and we get tied up usually talking sometimes after the service and they go ahead and start feeding or go ahead and start having meal time just the moment you say amen. And I've been standing out there, and some of those men, those men are hungry. Some of them, this is the only meal they get. Some of them a and and depending on their situation, it could be their only meal in in quite some time. And I have never seen one sat down and pick through his food like That doesn't appeal to me. I never saw one man look and and turn it over and say, that don't smell just like I want it to smell But I did see some fellas light into that food and put it down and I mean clean their plates before you could just blink an eye. You know why they're hungry. They're hungry. Right? And they want something. They want something. God help me to get hungry. God help us to come to church hungry. Look, if you come with your belly full of the world, it don't surprise me at all. You leave here with spiritual indigestion. Because you already full up on something that's going to make you sick. We need to get hungry for the word of God and hungry for the truth of God. I need something from God. Everybody sitting here tonight, whether you know it or not, you need something from the Lord. You don't need something from me, you need something from Him. You need something from the Bible. And the beauty of this thing is that God will give it to us if we'll come hungry. I remember going to a meeting and you know how we get. Sometimes we're awful. And sometimes we we we think we know what we think we know. You know, like one old preacher said, he said, you're looking at me like if as if I can preach. He said, I'm looking at you as if you can you take it, you know. But sometimes we make up our minds. I remember going to a meeting, and boy, I just didn't have the right spirit. And I said, you know, I don't know I'm going to get much out of this. And man, God pricked my heart and said, listen, if I can speak through a rooster, I can speak to about anybody. And I said, Lord, forgive me. Would you give me something? And one of the things that transformed my ministry, I got in that meeting, from that man I just about dismissed. You know a lot of times we don't get what we we need because we we we think uh somebody's not preaching. Now it's not so bad up here, but there are certain parts of the world they don't think you're preaching unless you're talking a hundred miles an hour and screaming at the top of your lungs. Hey girl, you're not preaching, you're not in the spirit. My uncle was an old Rector Baptist preacher and And they would sing their sermon. When he got started, you know, he was literally singing his sermon And I remember as a young fellow I preached down there the first time, and I think I was about seventeen years old, and he asked me to come on a Sunday night and preach, and I preached, and I just preached like I preach. And uh when it was over, Uncle J. R. came up and he said, Now son That's okay, but you need to get full of God. And I said, Yes, sir, I know I need to be full of God. I need to be full. But what you know what I found out later he was saying? He was saying, you gotta preach like I preach. Those regular bands, if you don't sing and and and even get to that, we call them hacking preachers, you know. If you're not doing that, if you're not, you're not preaching. They tell me Jonathan Edwards spoke monotone. Read his sermon. But boy did he ever turn New England upside down. It's not style. Some men are loud, some men are quiet, some are both. Some men are a nightmare for a sound man. They'll whisper a little bit like this. And then they'll scream the top of their lungs. Scare a body to death. We've had a few like that, haven't we? But it's not style. It's not about style. It's about the truth. It's about the Word of God. And listen, men, we need to come, ladies, we need to come with a hungry heart. Lord help me to be hungry. And the best way to come hungry is to be praying about Lord make me hungry. Make me hungry. You uh some of you dear ladies, you're wonderful you're wonderful cooks. I I I know that I mean just looking at the people you feed says one thing. But we have enough fellowships around here to know that if you're s if if you're not eating well, it's it's your fault. But isn't it a blessing when you make a meal and somebody's hungry? I I can't help but think of my dear grandmother, she loved to she loved to watch people eat. She was one of them force feeders, you know She circled the table like a vulture with something in her hand. Here, you need more. You dare not let your plate get empty. Man, she had heap it on, heap it on, heap it on. And and she she'd always she'd walk by, believe it or not, there was a time in my life I wasn't uh Portly. And uh I remember her coming by and she'd say to my mother, she said, I believe you need to give him some tonic. He's wormy Or she'd say things like, Are you feeding him well? You need to feed him better. And I'll never forget, every time we go to her house, Mama said, Now everybody be hungry. I don't know how you be hungry, but that she said be hungry. So when we went to her house, you usually skipped the meal before, so you could be extra hungry. So that way when you got there you didn't get the lecture about not eating like you should eat. I'm just saying, church, you ought to come to church hungry. You ought to come to God's house with the hunger, Lord. I'm coming with an empty plate. Lord, fill me up. I'm coming with the with with the help. I need help, Lord. I need to hear from you. I need something. And I'll tell you what, I don't believe God will ever disappoint you if you'll come with a hungry heart. It don't matter who's standing behind this desk. If you'll come hungry, God will feed you. God will feed you. You ought to attend with purpose. And then let me say this and I'll move on. We need to prioritize worship. You ought to prioritize worship. You know, there's a lot of things we can do without in our schedule. A lot of things. There's a lot of things that are not near as important as being in God's house. Ought to worship faithfully. We ought to say now, Lord, I'm going to put that first. Everything else is going to have to fit where it fits, but I'm putting that first. I hear ringing in my ears. I worked for a man and we were feeding calves one Sunday afternoon. I said, Sir, you know, uh you always give me the afternoon office and go to church. I'd milk and get my job done and go Sunday morning. And uh boy, he was mad about that. And he was just steaming. I said, I'll do any chores. Church is over, I'll be back, I'll work till midnight if need be, but I've got to go to church. Now remember what that man said. He stood there and he looked me in the eye. He said, you're never going to amount to much with those priorities. I thought, well, I may not amount to much in the business world, and I may not amount to much in financial realm, but I do want to please the Lord. And if it means it's going to put me behind in other ways, so be it. But God's able, God's able to make all grace abound. And I believe you put him first, he'll take care of the rest. But I'm just saying we ought to make it a priority. Family's important. But not near as important as being in the house of God. Amen. It's the truth. Need to make it a priority. You know, it it always puzzles me. We pray, oh God save my loved one, oh God save my loved one, and then we have a meeting where a loved one could hear the gospel and we stay at home with them. Lord help us. I'm not being ugly. I'm just saying we've got to make some priorities. We've got to say there's some things that gotta be first. They've got to be first. Hey, if your family won't come, leave them at the house if you trust them. If you don't, tell them you'll be back. Lock a door and say we'll be back. When it's over, you can come back in. Right? Look, I got family too. I know what you're talking about. Sometimes you gotta say you just gotta lock that door. Make it a priority. Make it a priority. Isn't that strange? I've been preaching now 30-some years, and I've noticed year by year, when you talk about making church a priority, it gets harder and harder. There's that kickback from Christians. You just feel it. It used to be a standard. It used to be a re it used to be Just it's what Christians did, but we're getting such a day where where even people who call themselves Christians don't even make church a priority. I was talking to someone up in Ohio and and they were talking about these people who had recently made a profession of faith and and talking about they never go to church. And I said, I I said, isn't that strange? He said, well, not really. People don't do that anymore. And I said, well, that don't compute in my brain. You know, I've never went to a seminar on why I ought to go to church. But ever since I got saved, I've wanted to. I've wanted to. I'm thankful I had parents that made me when I didn't want to. And I had a brother at that point that was trying to do right and he was living for the Lord. And he'd come get us. And I heard him on many occasions say to my dad, I don't know what's going on in your life, but these kids need to be in church. He took me to church. I'm thankful. It's got to be a priority. You know why? Because it's here we get called back to the truth of the Word of God. And it's here we're reminded what's really important. Folks, listen, it's not going to happen accidentally. If we have an old-fashioned revival, I don't think it's going to take place under a parachurch ministry somewhere out here. on the street corner. I believe it's going to take place in the house of God where the people of God are honoring the Word of God and lifting up Jesus, the blessed Son of God, and calling men and women back to the truth. Oh, make it a priority. Make it a priority. I know there's a lot going on. I know it takes d it takes a a lot of uh uh of effort, but the reality is it's worth it. It's worth it. It's sure worth it. I was thinking this afternoon, the greatest things God's ever done for me, He's done in the house of God. I got saved in a local New Testament Baptist church. Faithful preacher on Sunday morning preached the gospel. And an eight-year-old boy got saved, and a lot of people outside of Brother Leo Worley that prayed with me didn't really even know it. Pastor said, everybody that made a decision, would you stand up? You know. And I was so backward back then I couldn't even stand up. I tried and all the strength left my knees. And I just sat there and cried. I know what some are saying, well you didn't confess the Lord. Well I did. In time. But I know God saved me that morning. I got saved in church. God called me to preach in church. It was on a Wednesday night. I got in the altar and said, God, whatever you want to do of me, please do it. It scares me to death to even think what you want me to do. But Lord, I'm willing, whatever it is, if you'll help me, God called me to preach. My dear wife and I stood in that very same church and exchanged vows and were married. We dedicated one of our two children to the Lord in that church. The church is busy. You say, well, you're the preacher. Don't tell me uh that that that your place in the church is any less important than the preacher. My Bible says we're a body. And all the body is crucial for the whole body. Every part of the body adds to the body. Hey, you brought your arm with you this evening, didn't you? Pretty important to have. Right? Those parts of the body we often look at, we say, well, that's not important. Listen, there's no unimportant parts of your body. And there's no unimportant parts of the body of the Lord Jesus Christ. Any part of your body don't work like it should? We don't, you know, just say amen or o me. And i isn't that an aggravating thing when that when it don't work like it should. You know? You miss it. It it it there's a part of it that you're you're saying, man, I wish it worked. Folks, we're a body. Nobody's an island. You can say, well, it don't matter, nobody cares if I come or not. That's not true. That's the lie of the devil. Well it don't matter if I'm at prayer meeting. Oh it does matter. It makes a difference. Oh it's not it's not important if if I'm consistent and reliable and accountable. Listen, we're losing a generation that we're like pillars. Yeah. You just count on them. I mean, you you you you it didn't matter the weather, it didn't matter the situation, it didn't matter what, you could just count they're going to be there. You know why? They made it a priority. They just said this is important to me. And so they said, I'm going to go. And they were faithful to the house of God. I'm telling you, my friend, that it's important. Can I divert just a second here? You say, well, why is it so important? Well, because you're a part of the body. You're a member of that body. And whether you realize it or not, you might be bringing encouragement that you don't know you're bringing. You might be maybe making a contribution, and I'm not talking about financial things. I'm talking about a spiritual contribution. You don't know that your prayers aren't the tipping point for what God's doing. You don't know that your contribution is it there's so much happens that we do not see that is a part of the work of God. It may be prayers prayed, it may be a word spoken, it might be just a presence. Your very presence is an encouragement. I'll never forget reading somewhere. About a church voting. It said you vote. And I think it might have been one of the sword of the Lord's. But anyway, wherever it was, it said you vote every time the church meets. You vote. Said when you're absent, your vote. Because this place don't matter. When you're present, you're saying, that's important to me. I want to keep it going. Folks, the devil's not closing churches in America. God 's people are. Because they're staying home. You know, we I thank God for technology I'm going to talk about here in a minute. If you'll just be patient with me. And let me try to finish what's in my heart. But understand this technology can't take place of the local church. Can't do it. You can't get on your couch. Did we not learn that? You can't get on your couch what you get sitting in these pews. You don't get a handshake or a hug around the neck or a word that says, I'm praying for you. You don't get that at a distance Oh, you might get the plastic form. I'm here to tell you the plastic form is cold cumper. I got a picture, I got a picture of my office of my wife. I I'm thankful for it. I look at it and smile, laugh. I threw a thing or two at it once in a while. No, I'm just kidding. But that picture is cold comfort. I I don't talk to that picture usually I I'm glad I got a wife, a real live human being. You get what I'm trying to say? We don't worship just form, we don't want worship just just a mere image. We worship our real Savior. And our Savior taught us to assemble, and He said in the Revelation that when we assemble, He's present among us. And we need to raise up a generation of young Christians that know church is important. It bothers me. It bothers me. When there's young people who say, well, uh God wants me to do something, but they can't even be faithful to church. God ain't gonna do nothing in your life. Brother Luke, you've been around the world and been some traveling, touching lives of missionaries and people. God doesn't use unfaithful people. Is that not true? There's not an unfaithful person that I believe you could put a finger on and say, now that person's hit or miss, but they're doing something for God. There's no hit or misses that do anything for God. Now when you s when you just make up your mind, when you just get it settled, when you say by the grace of God, I'm going to make this a priority. You look out. God's going to do something with you, through you, by you, and in your life. And we need to raise up another generation saying, hey, church is important. Not everybody has a mama or daddy that taught them that Sometimes they need a friend in the church that says, Hey, can I help you with something? Can I encourage you with something? Can I tell you this will help you be a better Christian? Just get in there and be faithful. Some of the greatest things God will do in your life is when you're sitting in a service with an open Bible. And you might get instructions, directions, you might get help. God may do a lot of things for you that He wants to do, but if you sit at home, it ain't going to get done. Need to make it a priority. Let me close with this. We need to witness continually. I'm talking about keeping Christ at the center. You know what the shepherds did? Are you there in Luke? Look in verse 17. And when they had seen it, the bay, blind, and man. They made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child. When they saw it, they had to tell everybody about it What did they talk about? They talked about a savior. That's what the angels said. There's a savior born. That's what they talked about. They talked about the sign that you'll find a babe wrapped in swallowing clothes, lying in a manger. That was a sign. You say, what sign do I have to talk about? Well Jesus said, I'm going to give you one sign. Just as Jonah was three days and three nights, so shall I be in the in the heart of the earth? I'm going to be in the grave three days and three nights We can talk about the resurrected Christ. We can say, hey, the tomb is empty. Jesus lives. And then they talked about the song. The angel sung a song. Glory to God in the highest. Can you hear those shepherds telling that story? They were witnesses. They were just telling what they'd seen. And listen, if you've been saved, you've got something to tell. You've got something to tell you. You say, well, it didn't happen to me like it happened to Brother So-and-so or Sister So-and-so. That's why it's your story. It's not theirs. You've got a testimony. If you're saved, you've got a testimony. You've got a testimony of what Jesus Christ did for you. And by the way, it don't have to involve gross sin. Sometimes you grow up in church and people say, well, I you know I wasn't a drunk, I wasn't on the street, I I wasn't on on Skid Row. But but uh listen You got saved in Sunday school. You needed the grace of God just as much as a wicked, vile sinner, because that's what we are, apart from Jesus Christ. You've got a story to tell. You've got a testimony. And thank God that He's kept you from things if that be the case. But if not, tell what the Lord has done. Witness continually. You know, we can just share the gospel. And you say, preacher, what can I use to share the gospel? Well, you've got tracks Tracks are very powerful. Use them. Use them. We we stopped at a rest area and I was trying to strategically put a track in a in a restroom facility. And I dropped it. And it went and went under the stall to the next over. And there was somebody over there and they went Well, that's good. I'm listening, you know. I'm trying to hear what's going on. Kind of a weird way to witness, but at least it got the job done. You know, give them something to read Not trying to be crude, but I mean, hey, thank God he read the gospel. Right? Use tracks. You can put them anywhere. Put them everywhere. You don't know what that little piece of paper will do. Use them. Use your testimony. Tell people what the Lord did for you. Tell them. Tell them how the Lord saved you. If you've never really thought out clearly your testimony, you ought to sit down and write it out. And think about it to the point that you can share it and say, This is what Jesus did for me. I I d I don't have a story to tell about the church. I'm thankful for the church, you know that. But it wasn't the church that saved me. And it wasn't my preacher that saved me. And it wasn't the baptismal waters at 13 years of age that saved me. It was Jesus Christ. And though I was uh raised in church and taken to church and apart, I'm grateful that God would save a sinner who sits on a church pew. We ought to tell her testimony. And then use your technology. Use your technology to share the gospel. Can I encourage you to really make an effort to use whatever social media or whatever technology use it to get the gospel out? Share your testimony on it. Put gospel truth on it. Share gospel preaching. Just put and you don't know who will listen. You know? But somebody may. And it might make a difference. Use our technology. Let's share the gospel. Now look, these these are all things you know and I know But sometimes I need to be reminded of these very simple things that'll keep Christ at the heart. It's not about all the hoopala. We may enjoy some of the traditions and all of that, and that's okay. But it's not about that. It's not about that. It's about Jesus Christ. And as a Christian, isn't that what it's about anyway? That's what living's about. Keep him centered. Read your Bible deliberately, pray fervently. Worship faithfully. And then let's be a witness continually. If we do that, the Lord Jesus will be right there. At the heart of everything we do. Oh, may that be true for all of us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, would you help us tonight?