Aren't you grateful for that? The grace of God. I want to look at the other side of that. I want to look at the mercy of God this morning. Psalm 136, please. Psalm 136, and I'm going to read it in its entirety. There are 26 verses in this psalm. We're not told who the writer is, but it sure does sound a lot like David. And as we read this psalm, I'll remind you that three times this psalm was used. We're told that the Levites were to sing this psalm every day. 1 Chronicles chapter 16, 41, they were to sing and give praise to God, and they were to sing Psalm 136 every single day. When Solomon dedicated his temple, that great grand temple that he built for the glory of God, when he dedicated that temple, they stood and sung. 2 Chronicles chapter 7 verses 3 to 6, they stood and they saw they sung Psalm 136. And then it was used on another occasion. It's interesting to me how it was used daily in the tabernacle, how it was used at the dedication of the temple, and then it was used on a battlefield. When Jehoshaphat went out to meet the armies, the armies of the enemy in Tokoah, the Bible says that they sang. God told them to do it. Now that was some weird way to go to battle, wasn't it? Not pull your sword, not be ready to fight, but to go forth singing. And what did they sing? They sang Psalm 136. And the Bible says that God routed the enemy when they sung this psalm. Psalm 136. Let me read it, please. Beginning in verse number one says, Oh, give thanks unto the Lord. For he is good. For his mercy endureth forever. O give thanks unto the God of gods, for his mercy endureth forever. O give thanks to the Lord of Lords, for his mercy endureth forever. To him who alone doeth great wonders, for his mercy endureth forever. To him that by wisdom made the heavens, for his mercy endureth forever. To him that stretched out the earth above the waters, for his mercy endureth forever. To him that made great lights, for his mercy endureth forever. The Son to rule by day, for his mercy endureth forever The moon and stars do rule by night, for his mercy endureth forever. To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn, for his mercy endureth forever. And brought out Israel from among them, for his mercy endureth forever. With a strong hand and with a stretched out arm, for his mercy endureth forever. To him which divided the Red Sea into parts, for his mercy endureth forever, and made Israel to pass through the midst of it. For his mercy endureth forever. But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea. For his mercy endureth forever. To him which led his people through the wilderness, for his mercy endureth forever. To him which smoke great kings, for his mercy endureth forever. And slew famous kings, for his mercy endureth forever. Sahon, king of the Amorites, for his mercy endureth forever. And Og the king of Hashan, for his mercy endureth for ever. And gave their land for an heritage, for his mercy endureth forever. Even inheritage unto Israel his servants , For his mercy endureth forever. Who remembered us in our low estate? For his mercy endureth forever. And hath redeemed us from our enemies, for his mercy endureth forever. Who giveth food to all flesh, for his mercy endureth forever O give thanks unto the God of heaven, for his mercy endureth forever. What a psalm. Mr. Spurgeon said this psalm contains nothing but praise. And that's truly all it contains. Because he's worthy of all of our praise. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the privilege to have opened our Bibles and read them together. We thank you for your mercies that are new every morning. We thank you, Lord, for the Spirit of God already speaking to and working in our hearts, and we pray now, as we come to your word, that you would have your way. Lord, we pray that you had hide flesh, exalt Christ, be glorified in this place, have preeminence, and as our brother said, may the Spirit of God have liberty and the Word of God free course. And Father, we'll praise you for what you do. Please save the lost, reclaim the backslider, strengthen the Christian that's trying to walk and draw near to thee And have your way, and we'll praise you for all that you do. For Lord, we need you this morning, and we pray your will be done in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. I want you to notice a couple of things about this psalm before we begin. Four times in this psalm, the psalmist pleads this way: Oh, give thanks unto the Lord. Four times you see it, verse one. I will give thanks unto the Lord. Verse two, I will give thanks unto the God of gods Verse 3, O give thanks to the Lord of Lords. Verse 26, O give thanks unto the God of heaven. It's a telling thing that those that have received so much have to be reminded so often to say thank you. Says something about the condition of her own fallen nature. When I read 2 Timothy chapter 3 about the last days, perilous times shall come. Men shall be lovers of themselves, boasters, proud, blasphemers, and on and on it goes. Lumped in that list of ungodliness is this statement unthankful Unthankful. Gratitude has always been a good sign of God's grace Where you see gratitude, you see perhaps somewhere that grace has been already. The psalmist just fills this psalm with praise and thanks and gratefulness to God. But there are several things and lots of things we can say out of this psalm, but let me just uh hone in on about four things here this morning. Number one, let me say this. We see a person to whom thanks should be given. A person to whom thanks should be given. And by the way, those four verses that we've noted already have four different titles. And when you find different names about the Lord, there's things God wants to teach you as he reveals himself in a different way. Now again the direction of this psalm here is that we're giving thanks to the Lord. Look at it in verse 1. Notice it says, Oh give thanks unto the Lord all capital letters, capital L, capital O, capital R. Capital D Lord Jehovah, that self-existent one. He's the one out of whom all things consist. He's the if you'll put this word down, he's the provider. Without him, there's no life. Without him, there's no sustenance. You say, preacher, I can get by without the Lord. Well, keep fooling yourself. The reality is you can't. In him, the Bible says, we live and move and have our being. It is upon the Lord we depend. Do you know the breath in your lungs is a work of God? The very beating of your heart is the mercy of God. The very life that you enjoy is the hand of God. It all comes from Him Everything stems from the Lord Jehovah, that great self-existent one. It is him that we're giving thanks to this morning. Notice secondly, he's called the God of Gods. God big G, God's little G. The Bible is making it clear here that He's He holds a place. If you want to write that word down, He holds a place. He alone is God. There are no other gods. There may be gods little g on the earth that are recognized by men, but there's only one God big G who's recognized in heaven. Men might have their idols and they do. Men might have creatures and different things that they bow down to, but the reality is there's only one God. He's the God of all gods. Look over here in 2 Samuel real quick. 2 Samuel chapter 7 and verse number 22 is a good verse to get in your heart today. Second Samuel chapter seven, verse twenty two says Wherefore thou art great, O Lord God, for there is none like thee. Neither is there any God beside thee, according to all that we've heard with our ears. Notice that there is none like thee, neither is there any God beside thee. Man's declaring a God to be God doesn't make him God. I mean you can bow down at an idol and say, This is my God, but that does not make that God. God alone is God. And there is none like him. Again, notice this is the God whom we give thanks to. Verse number three in Psalm 136 says he's the Lord, capital Ale, of Lord's little ale. This speaks of a position. That might be a good word to write down, a position. A position of one who rules. In our Revelation study, we'll get to Revelation 19. And in Revelation 19, when we see the Lord Jesus coming to this earth, he's got a name on his vesture and down his thigh. And the Bible says that name is this, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He's got a name. Listen, he holds a position like nobody else. I'm telling you, dear friend, you need to see this is the God to whom we give thanks. This psalm makes it very clear. This is not a psalm of ambiguous praise. We're not thanking Mother Earth because she don't exist. We're not thanking some universe spirit or force or some sort of some substance that doesn't have a name or a title. We are thanking the God of heaven, revisionists of our history Have tried to make out the first Thanksgiving as being a time of giving thanks to the natives for their kind support And I'm sure around that table there was expressions of appreciation for their wisdom and for what they they told them, but above all it was a day set aside to say, God, you spared us. God, you have fed us, and God, you've been good to us, and we want to thank you. Don't be afraid of being specific with your giving of thanks because God is worthy. Notice the person to whom thanks is given. Then one more title here quickly. Notice the last verse, verse number 26, he's the God of heaven. In verse twenty-six it says, Oh, give thanks unto the God of heaven. That speaks of power. The one who rules above. Earth may have her little gods. Heaven's got one God. He's the God of heaven. Three times in our Bible that title is used. And it always is looking above some earthly chaos and some trouble down here and looking up yonder to where all things are in order. It's used in Daniel. Daniel talks about praying to the God of heaven in a time of political crises Ezra and Nehemiah both spoke of calling on the God of heaven, and here they are in a time of chaos. They're trying to rebuild, trying to re-organize, trying to redo things that have been destroyed. In your life and mind, in mid all the confusion of the moment, the chaos of the hour, the the the Commotion of our feelings and all of that. We need to remember there's still a God in heaven. He's the God of heaven. He's still in charge. He's still on the throne. He's still good Now things may not be good and circumstances may not be good. All these other things may not be good, but God is still good. And we can give him thanks. Again, I want to be clear here this morning that the scripture is very clear that we are thanking the Lord. We're thanking God. In these first three verses is a picture of the Trinity: God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost. And it is that God, this God, the God of the Word, that we're giving our thanks to. Do not be vague about this. I urge you, if you're going to bear testimony of being a Christian, don't bow your head and just say, Thank the Lord. I know a man who claimed to be a Christian that when he prayed in a restaurant, he'd drop his napkin And as he went down to get it, he would pray, Thank you, Lord, for the food, and then raise his head back up. He had a yellow streak a mile wide on his back. A Christian has nothing to be ashamed of when he gives thanks to the Lord. For he's God, and he's good, and he's done better than we deserve. And we ought to give thanks unto God. Let's be clear about who we're talking about as we give thanks. He's the person to whom thanks is given. But then there's a personal side to this giving of thanks. I want you to see that secondly. There's a personal side Do you notice how many times, I believe it is eight times, this statement to him is used? Verse 4 to him who alone doeth great wonders. To him verse 5. Verse 6 to him. Verse 7 to him. Verse 10 to him. Verse 13 to him. Verse 16 to him. Verse 17 to him. All of these state a personal, there's a personal side of giving thanks. The psalmist here, David, I believe, is personally recognizing That it is the Lord that does great wonders. Look in verse 4. Here's the basis of all of these two hymns to him who alone doeth great wonders. To him. David is not just spouting thanks up in the empty sky. He's saying it's to him. Lord, I'm bringing my personal thanks before your throne. I'm coming, I'm coming as a as an individual. You know, I I I thank the Lord for all of those that are thankful, but listen to me, I can't ride on the coattails of somebody else's Thanksgiving. I must give thanks. It is to him that I personally recognize the great wonders. Do you see those? Do you see the wonders that God has worked in your life? The great wonder of life itself. You say, well, preacher, I take good care of myself, well, you ought to. And I'm not a poster child for that, but I'm telling you, you should be And the reality is that you ought to take care of yourself, but you're not allowed because you took care of yourself. You're allowed because God Almighty is keeping you alive. He's the giver of life. He's the one, and we personally recognize. And then I believe there's also a personal appreciation here. The psalmist David is is including himself as he invokes or encourages this the nation of Israel to praise the Lord. He himself is saying, Lord, I appreciate you. I want you to know that I appreciate you. And then this also is a personal expression. He's making sure that his lips are being used to give the sacrifice of praise to the Lord. You know, this whole thing of giving thanks has little meaning unless it's personal. Unless you make it personal, unless you recognize that that this thing of giving of thanks Is not only your personal obligation, but it's your personal privilege as a child of God. Let me quickly note number three. I want you to see something else here. The purpose of giving thanks. Look at the purpose. It states it right in verse 1. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord. Look at this, for he is good. That's the purpose. See, thanksgiving magnifies the goodness of God It i i if I can say it this way, it's all right I can say it that I know of at the moment, but it it it's the advertisement of what God actually is. It speaks of who he is. It declares what he is. I wonder if our speech about the Lord advertises accurately for the Lord. I wonder if it says he's good. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good. Look, you this whole psalm, and and we could break it down like this, the whole psalm talks about first in verses five to nine about creation. Creation is proof. Creation is visible proof of the goodness of God. In fact, the psalmist said in Psalm 33, verse 5, the earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. It's full everywhere you look. Isn't it amazing the things God's done out yonder in the created realm that tells how good God is? I watched a woodpecker the other day beat on a tree. And the fact that God's put a cushion around his little brain so that when he pecks on that tree, he doesn't do damage to his brain. Imagine what a mess he'd be if he didn't have that cushion. Man, I'll tell you it'd be a lot of brain-damaged woodpeckers flying in the woods. If they didn't have that that that cushion, that and you say, well, uh you know evolution's so ignorant. I can't help but say it. Because i i if if evolution be true, how many woodpeckers had to beat their brains out on a tree somewhere before they grew enough cushion in there to keep it from happening? That's silly I'll tell you what it is. God did it. When God made that little creature, he put the cushion up there because of the manner in which he would go about living his life, and every time he pecks, that little brain just floats fluidly there. perfectly protected by a good God. A God who's good. Creation is a continual declaration of the goodness of the Lord. Oh, look at it, he says. He makes to him, verse 5, that by wisdom made the heavens. To him that stretched out the earth above the waters. Isn't it good of God to give us earth to stand on rather than water to have to wait around in? He he says in verse 7 to him that made great lights. Aren't you thankful for the lights God's made? You know? How good of the Lord, how good of the Lord to give a light at night and a light by day. Make the one in the day stronger and the one in the night weaker and you just see the wisdom of God I'm saying that that creation is is continual proof of the goodness of God. You ought to give him thanks for it. You think about the power of conversion. He talks about beginning in verse 10, down to verse number 15, the deliverance out of Egypt. And we know that that is a picture of salvation. When God brought the nation of Israel out of Egypt, it's a picture of God bringing you and I out of sin. And and the proof the power rather of conversion. What a testimony of the goodness of God. Everybody who's saved is a living testimony that God is good. Everybody who's going to heaven, listen to me, there are a lot of people who think they're going to heaven because they're good and they're mistaken. But everybody who is saved is going to heaven because God's good and he's provided a savior. And every saved person is living proof that God is a good God. Dear friend, God doesn't owe you or me anything You and I have earned our place in hell and ought to be there already, but salvation by grace through faith is just living proof that God is good to people. God's good to those that call upon Him by giving them salvation. God is good to those that need to be saved and cry out, Lord, save me. And he hears them and he saves them, not on any merit of their own, but simply on the merit of the works of Jesus Christ on the mighty cross of Calvary. Thank God for that. And and and what testimony to the goodness of God. Oh, how good God is to save sinners like us. And then what about his providential care? In verses 16 down to verse 25, the Bible describes the care of God for the people of Israel. Which is a picture, an illustration of how God takes care of you and me. In verse 16, he says he led his people through the wilderness. He led them through the wilderness. You think about what he did there. In the wilderness he give he gave them food to eat. In the wilderness he put he put clothes on their back and made those clothes last. In the wilderness, he put shoes on their feet and made those shoes last. In the wilderness, he cared for them by giving them manna from heaven every single day. In the wilderness he protected them from their enemies. They were sitting ducks for the enemies to come along, but God protected them. He gave them a pillar of fire by night and a cloud by day. And what is that? That's just the providential care of God. God was good. God is good. God does good to his people. Look back over your long history And realize that God has been good to you. Look back over your life and acknowledge it was the goodness of God that has brought us safe thus far. That doesn't mean there's been no trials or troubles or struggles or or or wants or whatever, but it does mean that God has been faithful. God has been good. God has brought us along. Friends, you can't sit here in self-contained arrogance and say, I have brought myself along. You, everybody here and everyone listening has to look up into heaven and say, the goodness of God has escorted me along this journey. It's been the goodness of God that has provided for you work and the goodness of God that has met your needs, the goodness of God that's given you family, the goodness of God that's given you friends. The goodness of God that's given you a church and the goodness of God that's given you a Bible. It's been the goodness of God all along the way. No wonder David said, Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Because truly God's goodness has followed us all the days of our lives. Oh, how good God is. The giving of thanks magnifies the goodness of God. Shame on us for poor mouthing the Lord. We often talk like God's dead, and we attended his funeral just a few days ago. We often talk like we we serve a God in heaven whose whose pockets are empty, whose heart is stingy, whose mightless, and who's cold-hearted towards his That's not that God of the Bible. That's not my God. That's not the God of the Word. The Bible says, like a father pitieth his children. So doth the Lord pity them that fear him. He looks down in heaven. He looks on you. You're one of his little children. And he'll do anything. Those of you that have children, you know this. You'll do about near anything for your children. You love them that much. You love them enough to correct them. You love them enough to take care of them. You love them enough to provide for them. I believe that's why we often uh have to stop a minute and understand that God is is is a father. He is our father if we're saved. We can lay claim to that title, Heavenly Father. And as our heavenly Father, he's a Father who's so good to us. Oh dear friend, don't forget for a moment that God is good. You say, Preacher, a lot of my circumstances aren't good. They may not be, but your father's good. You say, but my situation ain't always good. May not be, but God is still good. And by the way Some things we deem not good is for our good and ultimately will bring good. I can't help but think of old Jacob sitting down there in Canaan land and he's he's sent his boys out and it seems like just one after the other is getting picked off and finally they come back to get that last one, that youngest boy, Benjamin and take him down to Egypt so they can get corn, and he cries out, Alas, all these things are against me. He throws his hands up in disgust. Joseph is dead They're taking my sons. Now they've got my oldest. Now they're taking my youngest. And now I'm just sitting here without a child. And oh how we often see the things in in the wrong light. Yet it wouldn't be long that there'd be a happy reunion. There'd be a reunion down yonder in Egypt of all places with Joseph, with Benjamin, with Levi, with all those boys. God was getting ready to do bigger things for Jacob than he ever dreamed. And you know one day in heaven, if you're saved by the grace of God, there's going to be a grand reunion with all those that have gone before us And we can praise God that He's been good to us all along this journey. May the Lord convict us of being poor-mouthing about the Lord. By the way, you are an advertisement for the king. This world knows something about advertisement. And I'll tell you something, we we live in the world we're bombarded with it, aren't we? Everywhere you turn, they're trying to sell you something. They tell you your life's not complete without it. If you don't have this, if you don't buy that, if you don't go here, if you don't experience this, you're just missing out on it, you know They're like a world full of used car salesmen. I hope there's no used car salesmen here. But if there are used car salesmen here, I don't know where that gift comes from. But I'm here to tell you, everyone I've ever met makes you think if you don't get it, you're just going to die without it. The biggest mistake I ever made was buying a car one time. from a used car salesman and he he made you feel like I was on the way to school, Bible college, and I had to be there at six o'clock. And me and Elizabeth are sitting there. We've just been married a little while. We had Sarah and And uh we needed some some reliable transportation and and going back and forth and I I was sitting there and and and I I felt a little angst in my spirit And yet that salesman, he was like a parrot on duty. Man, he was his mouth is running a mile a minute, and he just made you feel like you're gonna miss the deal of the century if you don't sign the papers right now and take the keys and drive out of here. Well, I signed the papers and I drove the keys, and I wished I'd had somebody to give those keys to. That thing was nothing but trouble from the day I bought it till it was gone, and even when it was gone, it was trouble to me But I'm trying to tell you that there is a God in heaven who's good to us. And our advertisement of Him doesn't need to be fake or phony. He's good. I may not see the goodness of God, but I can believe in the goodness of God. David said it like this in Psalm thirty-seven I had fainted unless I believed to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. You know what he said? He said, I would have done give up the ghost, didn't put out of business if I didn't believe that somewhere along the way God's gonna be good. It may not look like it right now, but I know just over yonder he'll be good. And maybe around that next corner, maybe just down the road somewhere, God's going to be good. Listen, if you're saved, it may be a rough trail between here and home But when you get home, you'll be able to say, God's good. I'll tell you the hardest battle you'll fight now and the greatest difficulties you'll endure is now Thank God there's coming a day in heaven yonder when we'll never battle, where we'll never be discouraged, where we won't face the enemy. We'll be home free, home at last. God's good church And his people need to advertise the goodness of God. It is the purpose of our giving thanks. I wonder if our world don't lie in darkness because our lips stay silent so many times. About how good God is. I wonder i if we don't own some of the responsibility For the multiplied darkness about us, because we are not magnifying the goodness of God in our lives Number four, I want to give you this and we'll be through. I want you to notice the pinnacle of thanksgiving or the pinnacle of giving thanks. I don't see how you could miss it. Twenty-six times we said it. I'm told that when the ancient people sung this psalm, that various choirs or peoples, the Levites, would sing the verse, the first part. And the chorus was this portion I'm talking about now. For his mercy endureth forever. And I'm told, I'm told the writers, like John Gill and some of those older men, would write and say that when this would be sung, for instance, in the tabernacle, That you might have a choir that was responsible for singing the first three lines, but that statement that's repeated twenty-six times, his mercy endureth forever, the whole congregation had to join in. It it was it was because of emphasis. By the way, God doesn't repeat himself because he's forgetful. I asked my son something last night. He said, Dad, you've asked me that four times. I said, Well tell me the answer again because I don't remember what you said the other three times. Or I wasn't listening. I don't know which it is. Maybe I got a focus problem too. I don't know. But the truth of the matter is, God is not forgetful. And God is not at a loss for words. He doesn't have a reservoir that's limited like you and me. He doesn't say his mercy endure forever because he can't think of anything else. Oh no. When God repeats something, he does it for emphasis. He wants you to get it. He wants you to get it. He wants you to understand it. He wants you to register it in your heart. He wants you to see it. And listen, when you read something, I don't know of anything in the Bible that is said that many times in one place. There's not another statement so strongly emphasized anywhere else in the Word of God. Now that tells me something. That tells me that this statement is very important. In fact, here's the statement again, for his mercy endureth forever. Think about what that's saying. I read in my Bible that his wrath is but for a moment. His anger is for a short time. But I read in my Bible, His mercy endures forever. There's no end to His mercy. There's no limit to His mercy. There's no setting of the Son upon the mercies of God. Do you know how powerful that is? Titus said in Titus chapter 3, verse 5, that we are saved by his mercy. According to his mercy. It is the mercy of God that paves the way for you to be saved. Do you understand that the it is it is God's mercy that keeps us out of hell? The mercy listen, I've earned it. I've deserved it. I my sin has offended God. I read where they opened the ark one time. And they looked in, was it was it the Jebusites that looked into that? And when they opened, they slid that lid off of the ark, and they looked inside, fifty thousand were slaughtered. And that word is a strong word. It means butchered. Fifty thousand were slaughtered just like that when they looked into that ark. You say, preacher, what was in that ark? Well, in that ark was the commandments of God. And perhaps it was the broken commandments. We well are don't know exactly all that would have been in the ark at that time, but in that ark would have been a a representation of the law, the commandments, and and when man moved that lid back. The wrath of God fell, and 50,000 were butchered in a moment of time. You say, preacher, what does that say? That says God hates sin. And God can't look on sin. But there was something on top of that ark called a mercy seat. And that mercy seat is where the blood was applied. And that mercy seat's a picture of Jesus And that mercy seat says the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. And it's the goodness of God, the mercy of God, that paves the way for you to be saved. There ought not to be such a thing as a proud Christian. How can you be proud of what you're not responsible for? How can you be proud of something that you are not worthy of that you don't deserve? How can we get proud over something that God Almighty did for us in time past when He in mercy, according to His mercy, He saved us? We need to get back to a Bible view of what salvation is. Salvation isn't a lucky charm we hang around our neck. Salvation isn't a little prayer we pray like abracadabra so that magic happens. Salvation is a work of God's amazing grace on the mercy of the Lord when he changes a man's heart and makes him a new creature and does what no man can do for him. My what a good God he is And it is his mercy that is the pinnacle of giving thanks. You'll notice every thanksgiving is built, every giving of thanks is built on God's mercy. Everything we thank God for ought to center around the mercy of God. Even the fact he he said over here, where is it? Verse 25, who giveth food to all flesh. That's the mercy of God. It's the mercy of God that he feeds us at all. Men that will curse his name And men that will use their lips to defile and to despise and rail on the God of heaven still puts food in their bellies. That's mercy. The Bible says if he were to mark iniquity, who would stand? If God were to take you and measure you up and say, now I'm going to stand you up next to my son. And I'm going to show you true righteousness, every one of us falls miserably short. Every one of us falls miserably short. God is so holy and pure and righteous. And you say, Well then is there any hope for me? Is there any hope for me? Can I be saved? Can somebody like me be saved? You better believe it because God has mercy and mercy endures forever. The mercy of God paved the way for God to give grace. There could be no grace without mercy. Mercy had to come first. God stepped over fallen angels and did not show them mercy. God stepped over those masses of created beings that sinned and rebelled against Him and did not show them mercy. But when it comes to you and me, sinners by nature, we're born that way. Sinners by choice, we choose those things We're sinners simply by complete corruption of the whole human race. And my friend, listen, when God looks upon you, he says, I'm going to have mercy on you. I'm going to have mercy on you, and I'm going to give my son 2,000 years ago to die on a cross, and he's going to shed his blood, the perfect sacrifice, so that he can save you from your sin. And my Bible tells me that when he sees blood, when he sees that perfect blood, that perfect sacrifice, he passes over. Down there in Egypt, when the death angel came through, I'm telling you the blood on the door saved the people inside. The blood on the mercy seat in the tabernacle, the blood on the mercy seat in the temple, saved the people who believed. And the blood of Jesus Christ applied by faith upon the heart of every individual who trusts in Jesus Christ is what saves us today. And it's the mercies of God, God's mercy being demonstrated in salvation. Oh how good the Lord is to do that. Let me say one more thing about mercy. It's very precious, especially to those who know they need it. Years ago, I heard an old English preacher. He actually pastored the church where John Bunyan pastored in in England. He was there about seventeen years. He often said, It may be John Bunyan's church, but I didn't have John Bunyan's congregation. I don't know what he meant by that, but anyway, I think I know what he meant by that But for 17 years he pastored that church and and he got up in a preacher's meeting in Western North Carolina and he said, Men, I got something here I want to give all of you a little bit of. And he had a syringe. He pulled out a Syringe on his suitcoat. And he said, I want to tell you the virtue and the value of what's in this syringe. And he started naming all the stuff this thing did if you would take the shot. And he said, Come on now, men, who'll take it. And I thought, I took the day off to come hear this. He said, Men, let me tell you something. I'm an insulin-dependent diabetic. He said, What I carry in this vial saves my life. If I don't take it That disease or sickness in my body will eventually end my life. He said, the problem with you is You don't know the power of that disease. And what he was trying to do was illustrate the reality of sin. We have all sinned and come short of the glory of God. Every one of us here under the condemnation and wrath of God if we're not born again by the grace of God. Everybody here, you say, preacher, but But I'm this or that or the other. You know, if we get honest with God in ourselves and look in the mirror of the Word of God, we all have to acknowledge the fact that we've sinned against the Lord. And man's greatest problem is his sin. His greatest sickness is his sin. His greatest trouble is his sin. And you can write over all a man's failure, you can write a three-letter word, and it is S-I -N. And when you look at that, you say, Is there hope in this? Is there some hell? When you begin to realize what the problem is, then you'll be interested in the remedy. I'm glad there's a remedy. There's a remedy in the Lord Jesus Christ. There is a solution in the blood. Insulin may help you with diabetes, but the blood of Jesus Christ will help you with sin. Not only will he forgive your sin and cleanse your sin, but he'll give you power to overcome sin. Thank God for the blood of Jesus Christ. And I'm here to tell you this morning, dear friend, this mercy that God shows is very precious. Sinners like us See the value of the mercy of God. I believe there's some saved people that forget. That we're only here by the mercy of God. I think we get to thinking we're better than what we are. And Paul reminded the Galatian believers that a man thinks he is something when he's nothing, he deceives himself Take Jesus out of the picture. I'm just looking over this congregation. Take Jesus out of your life. Take him out of your home. Take him out of this congregation. What a mess. What a lot of miserable people. Hellbound sinners, hopeless , depraved and defiled by their sin. Take Jesus out of your life and tell me just what it's going to be like I'm telling you it's the mercy of God that he would save the likes of us and the mercy of God that he'd forgive us and the mercy of God he'd love us and the mercy of God that he'd go on doing work in us. Isn't it the mercy of God that he still works on you? Some of us have been saved a while and you look back and you think I ought to be further down the road than I am. I feel like I'm in kindergarten. Actually, I feel like I'm in pre-K. Still in the nursery. And we ought to be way down the road aways. But you know what, he don't throw the clay away He don't just take you and give you the boot and say I'm done with you. Thank God he picks us back up, molds us, makes us, fashions us, forms us, says I'm gonna keep working on you because I love you That's mercy, church. No wonder in the middle of Lamentations. Man, what a dark, sad book Lamentations is. You ever read it? Don't do it on Monday morning But lamentations, you read it from chapters one, two, and then on to five, it's nothing but misery and judgment and wail. It's a lament. It's a lamentation. He's lamenting over the sin of Israel. He's lamenting over his own sin. He's crying out over the misery that they're in. But right smack dab in the middle of that book, in Lamentations chapter 3, he says that his mercies are new every morning. And he realizes that there's one glimmer of hope in the dark, sad story of man, and that is God's merciful. And the psalmist said, His mercy endures forever. So when I get up in the morning, maybe failing God and just disappointing him, I can say, Lord, your mercies are new in the morning. They're new this morning. They'll be new tomorrow morning. And church, you can't exhaust something that's replenished every day. The mercy of God's just as bountiful as it was the minute it was declared. And and even here in Psalm 136, God's got as much mercy today as he ever had. Everything you and I give out, we lose. You give out strength, you work, you labor, you give out energy, you gotta get it back. And sometimes it takes a long time to get it back. Sometimes you don't get it back like you once had it. But the truth is the mercy of God goes forth. From the rising of the sun to the setting of the sun. God elabishes mercy on mankind, pours it out, pours it out upon mankind. And yet every morning that mercy's just like it was the day before and the day before and the day before. That's how good God is. He's a merciful God. The pinnacle of praise, of thanksgiving, is the mercies of God. Oh church, hear the scripture. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for He is good. For his mercy endureth forever. Now you might hear this this morning and think we've all lost our minds, and that's okay. You may be sitting here listening and thinking, man, what are they talking about? I don't have a clue. Can I tell you this morning? If you by faith will come to Jesus Christ acknowledging you're a hopeless lost sinner, and you'll simply trust him and call on him, the Bible says he'll pardon you. He'll save you. He'll show you mercy. And all your sin and all your iniquity he'll remember no more. Don't look down your long spiritual cold dry nose at somebody that gets excited about being forgiven. It may be you don't know all they've been forgiven of. When they chastised that woman who came and washed Jesus' feet with perfume, took her hair, let it down, washed his feet. Oh, they said that money could be spent better here. And who does she think she is touching him? Does she not realize, you know, Jesus had to rebuke that crowd? And remind them that she's been forgiven much. She loves much. I put her sin away, her vile and filthy, dark, dirty past has been all put away. Don't you revile her. Don't you t uh rebuke her. She's just showing her love. May Marinatha be a place where some people who get really saved by grace can show their love to Jesus Christ. If we get so big in our britches that we think we can't praise the Lord, we got problems, big, big problems. He's worthy. He's a good God. You better get adjusted to it. If you've paid attention in Revelation every time we take a peek into the glory world. They're praising him. They're on their faces. They're down on their knees. They're weeping. They're crying. They're shouting. They're singing with a vo Voice like the sound of many waters, they're giving God glory and honor and praise I believe this is probably the quietest world we'll live in if we're saved. He's worthy. And precious friend, if you're not saved you can be. Let me say this, it's not his fault, you're not. He paid it all. That included you. That includes your sin. He paid it all. Dear believer, dear brother, sister in the Lord, are we grateful for what the Lord's done? Does our gratitude have a central focus on material things? If it does, there'll come a point you'll be ungrateful. Because the Bible says riches have wings , they fly away. Dear brother, sister, are you a good advertisement for Jesus? The people hear the praises of God on your lips. One of the old writers said that gratitude in our mouths is testimony to grace in our hearts. If there's gratitude in my mouth, it means grace is in our hearts. I want to be more grateful. We need to be more grateful. This world doesn't need to hear us poor-mouthing about the Lord. Because I'll tell you what, He's been better to us than we deserve. Stand with me please, Father God