And I'm glad there is hope in the Lord Jesus. Would you take your Bibles, please, and go to Romans chapter five? Romans chapter number five, and I want to begin reading here In verse number 12, Romans chapter 5, and verse number 12, I'm going to read a lengthy passage, so I'm going to let you be seated this morning. But in Romans chapter 5, we start looking at one man. I want you to notice how many times that's stated. One man, one man, one man. And I want to remind you this morning that in this passage there's really two men who are identified here, but they're both called one man. They're called one man because one man brought the fall of man and the other man brought the grace of God. And the one enhances the other. The fall of man has got to be understood before the grace of God can be appreciated. We call that original sin. This whole passage is about the doctrine of original sin. I'm not a sinner because I sin, I sin because I'm a sinner. The Bible teaches us that when Adam and Eve sinned in the garden, that they passed on to all of humanity, this man Adam, passed on to all of humanity this thing called sin. Everybody here, everybody here this morning, including this preacher, every one of us here are inflicted with this thing called sin. We all have a sin nature We all are partakers of that. And the grace of God is so precious to those who know that they have been touched by that fallen nature. Uh Dr. James Stewart was sailing many years ago. Actually he was going over to Eastern Europe to begin a campaign. And he discovered on that voyage that there was a diamond dealer on board. He got to be friends with this man and and he said, uh, I've got some stuff I want to show you. And so he went to the cabin where the diamond dealer was and and he said uh uh he laid out a black velvet cloth. And he began to put these beautiful diamonds. And Brother Stewart, being who Brother Stewart was , he said, why do you always put diamonds on that black velvet. He said, when you go in a jewelry store, they're displayed on black velvet. He said, you know, as a dealer, he's carrying around this pe this piece of black velvet and he lays it out. He said, I'll tell you why we do that He said the darkness of the background enhances the beauty of the diamond. When you understand what sin is , See, I I think we're trying to get people saved who don't even know they're lost. We're trying to tell people that there's a remedy and they don't even know there's a problem. But when you understand how awful sin is, the grace of God is like a sweet relief to your troubled soul when you find out that there is a remedy for my old sin nature. Romans chapter 5, verse 12 says, Wherefore, as by one man, sin entered into the world, and death by sin. And so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. For until the law, sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed where there is no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned, after the similitude of Adam's transgression. who is the figure of him that was to come. But not as the offense, so also as the free gift. For if through the offense of one many be dead, much more the grace of God And the gift by grace, which is by one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded unto many. And not as it was by one that sinned, so is the gift For the judgment was by one to condemnation, but the free gift is of many offenses unto justification. For if by one man's offense death reign by one, much more they which receive abundance of grace, and of the gift of righteousness, shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ. Therefore, as by the offense of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation, even so by the righteousness of one the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life. For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. Moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound, but where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord. What a passage of Scripture. I can't think of a more plain part of the Bible that answers so many questions in just a few short verses as this portion right here. I want you to remember that one man. Let's pray. Father, help us, please. We bow before you this morning. I'm very much aware that we need thee, O Lord. The preacher, the hearer, every person, Lord, here, we need thy help. We ask God in mercy you would speak to our hearts. If there be precious lost souls in our midst, please say them If there be Christians who are astray, God please deal with them. If there be folks who need encouragement, oh God, come near them and encourage them But Lord, would you undertake for the great need of every heart to the glory of your name? And Lord, I humbly ask this in Jesus' name. Hide me behind the cross. Help me to rightly lift up your son and my dear Savior. And may your will be done in each of our hearts. We'll thank you for it because we pray now in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. I want you to notice the first one man. One man. The Bible says in verse number 12, wherefore, as by one man, sin entered into the world. There's a lot said in that statement, and I don't want to get bogged down here, but I do want to be very clear that sin came from Adam and it passed upon all men. Now this morning we can step outside of the Bible and we know that's true. I don't like to do that, but let me step outside of the Bible for a few moments and ask you that have raised children and ask you concerning your own personal life Did you have to be taught to sin? I don't remember taking sin one oh one in school. I don't remember my mother or my daddy sitting me down. Now they taught me a lot of things, taught me to say yes ma'am, no ma'am, yes sir, no sir, taught me to do a lot of things, but I never once was taught how to tell a lie. I knew how to do that. Just innately, it was in my nature. I didn't have to be taught to steal. I didn't have to be taught to do wrong. I had something in me Something in me that educated me, that was a part of me, that was already there when I was born. As special as my grandson little Jack is Do you know that little turkey has a sin nature? His mother will feed him, change him, take care of all of his little needs. And if he don't want to be put down and she puts him in that cradle, He'll scream like a little Comanche. I mean, you'll think that he's dying. He's leaving this world I was uh Marco Polo, it's a way to talk, and I was talking with her, and he let out this awful scream. I said, Sarah, what's wrong? You better go check right now And she said, Dad, he's just mad. I'm like, well, I don't like to hear him mad. Go get him at least till we're done talking, because I don't like to hear the little thing cry. You pick him up, do what he wants, you know. And she said, yeah, I wish you'd been that. No. What happens to a grandparent? We change, don't we? Something happens to us. But I'm here to tell you something. He's got a sin nature in his little body He got it from Adam. And I'm looking at men and women, and I love you dear folks, but you've got a sin nature. And one man, you say, where did it come from? It came from Adam. When Adam sinned in the garden, here's what the scripture says. Notice again, wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world. Notice the next thing, death by sin. If we step outside of the scripture again, which we really don't have to, but if we step outside of the scripture again, every graveyard testifies. To the truth of what this states. Death by sin. I I was reading one of my fascinations is is uh medical things and I was reading one of the uh New England journals of medicine and they were talking about the we're talking about not people who are saved so far as I know. But they were talking about the ability of the body to heal itself. And that it has, I mean, every part of your body has a way of remaking or redoing or repairing itself. And they were saying, and I love this little statement, it's as if the body was made to last forever. So why do we die? Why is what brings death into a situation where a body is able or capable of producing cells and what have you to repair itself? You know, unendingly as long as you eat proper and so on, what brings death? The Bible says sin brought death. When Adam and Eve sinned in the garden, they brought into mankind something that had never entered the garden. Do you realize death had never darkened the doors of the garden? There was no death in the garden, no predator-prey relationship between the animals. There was no death. They knew nothing of death Until sin entered in. And when sin entered in, you start reading in that part of Genesis, and you find, and he died And he died. And he died. And he died. And he died. And every time you go to a graveyard and see those headstones standing and Every time you peer into a fresh dug grave, and every time you remember what death does, here's what it says. It says, sin brought death into the world. And the Bible says this this morning, it is appointed unto men once to die. And after this the judgment. This morning, as we sit here, we know we have an appointment we don't like to think about. We have an appointment that we don't like to ponder or dwell on sometimes. We have an appointment out yonder somewhere, God only knows, but we have an appointment. It's an appointment with death. And why is it there? Because sin entered into the world. I'm talking about one man There are days I'd like to find that man. But I want you to see what the Bible says in verse 14. That nevertheless death reigned from Adam to Moses even over them that had not sinned. You say, hold on a minute. I didn't sin like Adam sinned. But had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression, who is the figure of him that was to come. Do you know what we learn from this portion of Scripture? That Adam was our federal head. That Adam acted as the federal head of the human race. And I believe with all of my heart, had it been you or me or anybody else, we would have done the very same thing Adam did. And when Adam fell, the whole race, the whole mankind, plunged into sin. And as a result of that, death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. I want you to notice the consequences that this one man brought upon humanity. The Bible says in verse 15: through the offense of one, many be dead. Do you realize you're born in a spiritually dead condition? You're walking dead. That's what the Bible says. We are dead in trespasses and sin Understand something. The Bible answers the question, man does not need a remodeling project. He needs to be made brand new. I'm not talking about nailing a few new boards onto the outside and becoming a Baptist or nailing some new boards on the b uh on your person and getting in a baptismal pool. I'm talking about you need a renovation on the inside. You need regeneration, which makes you a new creature in Jesus Christ. But that one man brought deadness, spiritual deadness unto all men. By the way, that's why if you're not saved, the Bible don't make sense. That's why if you're not saved, going to church is ignorant. Yeah, I mean it's just crazy. Why don't you say it? Why do you set in a place with a Bible a hymn on a hot, beautiful Sunday uh summer start of summer morning and and and you know hear somebody yell about Jesus? What's the what's the reason for all of that If you're dead and your trespasses in sin, the reality that you look at your sin and say, well, I may have messed up, but I'm not that bad. Do you know a convicted sinner, someone who knows they've done wrong and have violated the law of God and God has saved them, they recognize it was their dirty, ugly, black, filthy sin that nailed Jesus to the cross? And that very thing that we look at, and by the way, we live in an awful subtle culture because our culture says, oh, it isn't sin funny, and God says, no, it's horrible. Some of God's people get caught up in that, and they'll sit and watch the program about sin and laugh about it and think it's no big deal. And I remind you, you ought to hear in your ears. the ringing of the nails as they drove them into Jesus' hands because he died for those things. Our sin brings awful consequences Sin is the reality, and by one man this death was passed upon all men. We're born dead in our trespasses in sin. Then notice what else the Bible says, it was by one that condemnation, judgment, was by one the condemnation. And so I'm judged this morning based on the reality that I am a sinner. And because of my sin, I'm condemned under the fact That if I die in that state, I'll be separated from God forever because God's a holy God and He cannot tolerate sin And so I'm in a predicament. I mean, if you don't have the Lord, you're in an awful predicament because you are under judgment, under condemnation. The Bible says that he that believeth not is condemned already. Keep in mind here what's being said, one man. Verse 17, if by one man's offense death reigned by one. Do you know death has a pretty good batting average? It's got everybody. We've got a couple in the Bible that we know somehow or another God delivered them. But the reality is death's got a real good batting average. Notice this, the Bible goes on to tell us in verse number eighteen that again by the offense of one judgment came upon all men. To condemnation, verse 19, as by one man's disobedience, many were made sinners. Where'd my name where did my sin nature come from? Why do I let me ask you this, and I know if anybody here is honest this morning, you'll be honest with this, why do I lose my temper? Do you ever lose your temper? You might be just the meekest, mildest, sweetest little angelic, fluffy creature there ever was. But I promise you something will make you lose your temper. There's something that'll rub you the wrong way. My brother was so tolerant of me when I was a little boy, and I was so thankful for his kindness. He was just always so very kind. But I don't know what was going on that week, and he and I were building a deck together, and I was supposed to be bringing him supplies, but I thought, wouldn't it be neat? Because he's building this deck barefooted. That's just the way he rolled and you know it's not safety uh it's not OSHA approved or anything. But he's out there and I thought, wouldn't it be neat if I just took this wee little hammer and bopped his toe? And I I wonder what he'd think of that. Well, my meanness got the best of me, and I did it, and I found out what he thought about it, and it wasn't good And he had never talked to me like that and never acted that way, and it scared the daylights out of me, and I ran like a deer back to the house. And man, it broke my heart. He'd never act like that. You know why he had a sin nature Just like I had a sin nature. That's what made me want to whack his toe. But even far worse than that is the is the the the fact that we are lawbreakers. We break the law of God And we violate the law of God. And we do that not because we've been trained, not because we've been taught, not because we've been educated. It's because of what we got from Adam. And to understand that man has fallen. Man is not inerrantly a good creature. M I know this goes against the grain of culture, but a and some even Christian culture, but it's not against the Bible The Bible makes it clear that man does not have a spark of good. He's got a spark from hell burning in him, but he doesn't have a spark of good. And so there must be an answer. Would God let man live on in that way? Oh, thank God he did not. We are all equally lost and dead and sinful apart from Jesus Christ. But can I introduce you to another man? That one man who he has not he's he's called in the Bible the second Adam. Just like the first man Adam plunged the human race into sin, the second man Adam, lifts the fallen by grace. That notice this. Go back with me now in verse 14. It tells us that he who is the figure, that last statement of him that was to come. It's talking about Jesus, the second Adam. Adam as the representative of the fallen race, the federal head of man, when he fell in the garden, he took the whole race of humanity with him, but there was another man who would come that would also represent Those who put their trust in him. Now watch what he does. This one man. This one man, the Bible says, brought grace. The Bible says, if through the offense of one many be dead, much more the grace of God, and the gift by grace which is by one man, Jesus Christ hath abounded unto many. That one man brought grace. That one man brought the grace of God. The Bible says that the law came by Moses, but grace and truth by Jesus Christ. Friend, I want to remind you of something this morning, that this really is all about one man. The man Jesus Christ, the Savior Jesus Christ. It's about that one man. That one man who brought grace into the world. You see the law and he talks about it, and I don't want to go too far in that, but he talks about the law of God. And he tells us that the law brought that condemnation because law brought sin to light When you read thou shalt, by the way, that's why nobody wants to look at thou shalt not on on public buildings and places because they're doing a whole lot of them. They don't want to do they they they see that and they say, Well I don't want to see that, it troubles me. Well, in order to trouble you. But that law says this is what sin is. It spells it out in black and white. It makes it so plain you can't miss it And when you begin to understand that, you realize that that there's a work of condemnation, there's a w there's a cloud of judgment, there's a there's a coming reckoning that I've got to answer And man, I I've got to have some help, and I'm never going to find it in the law. Let me say this you will never law yourself to the Lord. You're never going to get so many rules that you'll so straighten up and change your nature. You'll never be so strict with yourself and so uh uh governing of yourself that you'll transform the heart. It takes something bigger than the law. The Bible says that the law had no power to save man. The law only condemned man. But I'm glad to report to you there was one man who came from heaven. And he came as the sinless Son of God. He came as one born of a virgin. He came to die in your place and to pay your penalty in full. And guess what he brought with him? He brought grace, much more grace. He brought more grace than you've got sin. He brought more grace than you my friend will ever need. He brought an abundance of grace, and it's all please hear me now, it's all in one man. Just one man. Don't mix that up. I'm afraid today we got people that are Baptist plus Jesus. And we got people that are religious plus Jesus. And we got people that are moral plus Jesus. And we got people that are trying to be spiritual and Jesus. Anything you add to Jesus, my friend says you're not trusting Jesus. Anything you try to put up next to him says that I need him and this. You know, when the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness, God gave them manna, and so far as I can tell, save with the episode with the uh with the quail, that's all they had for forty years. Manna. And whatever that manna was, and you know that name means what is it? I don't recommend sitting out to table and saying, What is it? That'll get you in trouble. Take it from me without a story But listen to me, please. When you realize that that that manna sustained them 40 years, they didn't need manna and quail. They didn't need manna and corn. They didn't need manna and camel or whatever else you could eat over. Listen, they just needed manna. God provided all the nutrients, provided all the necessities of their body through that one provision of manna. And oh what a picture of manna is. It's a picture of Jesus. God provides everything I need to go to heaven in Him. He provides everything I need to live in this life. In him, it's Jesus, one man. Paul's emphasizing that Because so many of these dear people were saying, Well, I need Jesus in Judaism. I need Jesus in circumcision I need Jesus and the keeping of the law. And people today say, well, you need Jesus and then you need to do this, this, and this, and they make their little list. I'm here to report to you that Jesus Christ alone brings the grace of God. Grace comes through Jesus Christ. Look in verse 16. And not as it was by one that sinned, so is the gift. For the judgment was by one to condemnation, but the free gift is of many offenses unto justification. Why, preacher, you mean to tell me that a law-breaking sinner A hellbound sinner, someone who's violated, insulted the God of heaven, can be justified simply through Jesus Christ. That's what I mean to tell you. That thief on the cross, you think about him. That dear thief on the cross as he hung there and and and he he realized he had broken the law of God, he had broken the law of man, he was being condemned and killed for the very reason. And he hung there and he began to understand that Jesus was the Savior. Somehow during the crucifixion, God opened his eyes. And he began to realize that he was dying deservingly, that he was a sinner. And so he said to the Lord, Remember me? And friend, without ever getting down off of that cross and doing one good deed, without ever getting off of that cross and getting into the waters of baptism Without ever getting down off of that cross and doing anything other than believing on the Lord Jesus Christ, Jesus said, Today shalt thou be with me in paradise. And I'm glad to report to you here this morning, this good morning, that you can still go to heaven on Jesus alone. You can still be saved by Jesus alone. You can still have your sin forgiven by Jesus alone. You can still be made whiter than snow through the Lord Jesus alone. Oh, please don't mix that up. The devil is a master concoctor of these things that mix something with Jesus. I remember hearing Oliver B. Green say, if preachers would really preach grace, they'd get in trouble. And a lot of people didn't like Oliz for B. Green because he preached grace. He said you're not going to heaven because you're good Baptist. There's good Baptist in hell right now. There's good church members in hell. There's religious outfits in it. Listen, I'm here to tell you that it's Jesus and Jesus alone. Justification is not accomplished by man on earth. It's declared by God in heaven through the work of the Lord Jesus Christ on the mighty cross. When God sees me, He doesn't see me as the low-down rascal that I am. He sees me as the one redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. He sees me as his child and justified in the eyes of Almighty God. You listen to a person crow about their goodness, and I don't know that they know Christ so well as they say. You listen to somebody that struts around with their thumbs and their spiritual suspenders like some little peacock and says, Look at what I do and have done and all of this I'm telling you what, all the sinners I know who are saved just simply lay before the cross and say, Look at Jesus. Look at how good Jesus is. Look what Jesus has done. He's my hope. He's the reason I'm going to heaven. Thank God for the Lord Jesus who made a way. And dear friend, He is the one man Who brings grace, the one man who justifies. But dear Christian, can I say to you, he's the one man who's the key to victory. Look in verse 17, the Bible says, For if by one man's offense death reign by one, much more they which receive abundance of grace. And of the gift of righteousness shall reign in life, not death, but in life, by one Jesus Christ. You say, preacher, how can I live for God? Jesus? Listen, you say, preacher, there there are things we're talking in our Sunday school class about the impossibilities that God requires. And I may preach on that sometime. God requires some things of me that are impossible. People say, well, they're difficult. No, they're impossible. Love your enemies. Pray for them that despitefully use you. Bless them that curse you. Give to them that take from you. Those are impossibilities. You can't do that apart from Jesus Christ. You say, well, preacher, how does a man do it? He does it by surrendering himself to Jesus. And like Paul said, nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. The key to living the Christian life is letting Jesus live that life in you. It's not about gritting your teeth and trying harder to do better. It's about surrendering more and more of yourself to Him and saying, Dear Lord, you come take possession. You come do what only you can do. Christianity's not you performing, it's God's power at work. Christianity's not about you and I putting on the dog and putting on the show, so to speak. Christianity's about a living Christ taking up residence in sinners who are saved and making a such a difference, people say, that well, I don't know what happened to him. You go to work and they say you got religion. Well, prove you got something better than religion. Because I know some awful nasty religious people. Prove Jesus is real. And the reality of Jesus is that he enables you to do the impossible. Beloved, we need to get back to raw New Testament Christianity, the real thing, and recognize that God meant what He said when we reign in life by one, Jesus Christ. That there is someone who will enable you to do the something that looks impossible, but with his presence, listen I read again this morning, it was in the book of Luke about Mary when Jesus when the angel came to her and said, You're going to bear a son. And so I've never known a man. And said, Well, with God all things are possible. God's able, listen, to do the impossible. And by the way, do you know where that came from? She, the angel actually quoted scripture. out of Samuel where Hannah was praying a and rejoicing in the answer to prayer that God would give her a son and God did something impossible. God did what seemingly to man was impossible. And your Christianity ought to have the note of impossibility written over the top of it as a signature that God is at work. You ought to be able to see something in you that they can't see in nobody else who doesn't have Jesus. That same text goes on to say That same text in Luke, uh Luke chapter 6 goes on to say that if you love someone who loves you, what think have ye? Sinners do that. I mean if you're good to people who are good to you, that's just natural. That's just normal. He's saying, I'm not coming to ask you to do something that's different or or that's just simply better. I'm asking you to do something that's entirely different. That's why Jesus turned the world upside down. That's why real Christianity will do it too. Everywhere Paul preached it, two things happened. They either had great revival or they had a crazy riot Because people said, This is just I've never seen anything like it. It's unearthly. Listen, dear friend, if you lived like Christ would have you to live, it would turn a few heads and it would make some tongues wag. I heard an old preacher say, he said, son, don't worry about the barking dogs. They only bark at something going in a proper direction. Something that's alive and moving, you know? Our little watchdog, our little German watchdog horse. I'm glad he isn't big. If he's big, it'd be something to worry about. But that little fellow, when I let him out every morning, he patrols the perimeter. His ears are pricked up, his tail straightened the air, and he's looking. And if he's barking, I know something's moving out there. It might be Brother Richard, it might be Brother Ben, it might be a squirrel, it might be a deer, it might be a fox, it might be one of my chickens, but something caught his eye. And he don't bark unless it's moving. And usually tongues don't wag unless something is going in the right way. And if you live for Jesus Christ, it'll wag a few tongues It will induce a few barks. I'm just saying to you this morning, we need this kind of Christianity where this one man makes all the difference in you and in me. Does the impossible. Does the impossible. Sometimes the impossible is a zip lip. When we might want to say more, and God says, mm-mm. And the Holy Ghost says, stop. One man. Verse 18 and 19 says, This one man brought righteousness, the free gift came upon all men under justification of life. And this one man, by the obedience of one, shall many be made righteous. Can I just say this that God's working in us is through just one man? It's just this one man. You say, preacher, what makes the difference in a person's life, one man? What makes the the difference in a home, just one man? What makes the difference in the church? Just one man? And I'm not talking about you or me or anybody else. I'm talking about the one man, Jesus Christ. He makes the difference. He's the great difference maker in our homes where he should be. This one man Now look, friend, don't let the devil confuse you. And don't let all the things you've heard or the things you think and all of that come rushing into your mind. Separate all of that and ask yourself, what have I done with this one man? What is it between me and this one man? Is that man my Savior? Is that man my master? Is that man the one that I'm living for? You see You can get in church and get to doing good things for the wrong person and the wrong reason. You can get behind this pulpit and be preaching this Bible for the wrong reason If we ever get our eyes off of the one man, I'm talking about why we do what we do. You can go down and teach a Sunday school You can sing in that choir, you can sing a special, and you can do it for a million different reasons that do not even include that one man. But if it's about the one man It'll be a whole lot better. If it's about the one man, you won't care about every other man. You won't. You know what I appreciate about the Lord's dealings in my life? I grew up in the South, and I'll tell you, the preacher kind of judged the preaching by the response. And you probably know what I'm talking about, those that understand that. And boy, i i i if if you weren't careful, you'd get in bondage and you'd get struggling if there was no response. Then the Lord plucked us up and took us up north and they never even wholly grunted, you know. You you didn't even get some sort of religious nod. You could preach your heart out. And they would sit there. And I loved it every once in a while we'd get a visitor from Northern Ireland. And I loved them old Northern Irishmen as they would come in and They they were not exuberant during the service. Their culture had sort of stripped them of that. But after it was over, they'd come and take you by the hand and That was powerful, brother. And they would shake it and pat you on the back and just about dislocate your shoulder. Saying, oh I'm just saying, dear friend, that oftentimes we judge things by so many peripheral things that do not matter. It does not matter what you think about what's being said, or what I think about what's being said, what does the one man think about it? It does not matter this morning what other brothers, sisters think of you or or or are listen, what matters today is where do you stand with the one man. Are you saved by that one man? Are you yielded to that one man? Are you living for that one man? Everything else is inconsequential. There's soon coming a day when it'll be that one man you'll stand before. It'll be that one man that your life will be measured by. It'll be that one man to whom you'll give an account. That one man. That one man. Oh, how sobering a thought that is. That my life and your life is going to be examined by one man. And the approval or disapproval of others is not going to be put into the factor. It's going to be his approval. For his disapproval that we'll be scrutinized by. Just one man. Can I ask you a question? What have you done with this one man? Our Bible teaches us this, but as many as received him, see that one man. I'm not talking about doing some kind of religious abracadabra. I'm talking about coming in faith and receiving that one man. Putting your faith and trust in the person of Jesus Christ. And saying that, Lord, I'm coming. And you know why you come? Because you're a sinner. And the Lord's worked in your heart, you understand, I'm lost, I need to be saved. And you cry out, you say, Lord, please save me. And it's not the composing of the words that you pray. It's the fact that you cry out to him. And when you cry out to him and you ask for this free gift and you receive him , As your Savior, that one man saves you, that one man forgives you, that one man justifies you, that one man makes you part of the family. That one man does it all. One man And remember, every day you live after that, it'll be that one man that you stand in need of. You'll need that one man to help you. You'll need that one man. Sister Dorothy, how long have you been saved? Dorothy White. Sixty-four years. Sixty-four years, and I guarantee you this All 64 years and every day of 64 years and every hour of 64 years you've needed him. And every one of us do too. Every one of us need him. Preacher, I I've got I've got some hard things. I've got some difficult things I need to obey the Lord about, and I just don't know how I'm gonna do it, one man. Just one man. Preacher, I I don't know how I'm gonna get through this spell in my life, this particular by the way, how many of you know not all your days are rosy and bright? That's only in a Christmas song. Not all your days are rose and bright. There's some valleys. There's some deserts. There's some times God seems like He's a million miles away. There's times that your soul is longing for that which seems unsupplied. There's times when the burden is greater than you feel you could ever bear. There's times that you wonder, could I put another foot in front of the other? Listen to me, please. How do you do it? One man. That one man. Do you know what he said? He said, I'll not leave you comfortless. I will come to you. And in the person of the Holy Spirit, he comes and he helps his people. And my friend, listen, he he's sort of like the limping man. You and I are like that limping man, maybe he's got a broke leg. And we need somebody to lean on, somebody to help and carry us along. And I'll tell you who that is. That's that one man, Jesus Christ. That's why we're instructed looking under Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. That's why if you put your eyes anywhere else, you're going to get disappointed. You're going to get discouraged. You're going to give up and quit. You've got to keep your eyes on him. People are fickle and fail. People let you down. Church is not all that it should be. And all sorts of things will be obstacles that ought to be helps. But the reality is that none of those things are commanded to be my supply. One man is, though, Jesus is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And so I can go to him tomorrow and he'll be the same as he was today, and I can go to him a thousand tomorrows and he'll still be the same because he's the Lord and he does not change. He's that one man. Now whether you're saved or lost here this morning, you need that one man. Now if you're lost today, let me say lovingly to you, friend. You're taking an awful gamble with your soul to go on rejecting that one man. Our lives are such fragile things we do not know the next moment. That's just the reality. Those firemen, first responders up there in Searsmont. I know some of those people when they rushed into that fire at the big sawmill up there. I believe I heard Brother Richard used to work there. That one dear gentleman had no idea that would be his last call, his last day. And I want you to know something. Our lives are so fragile. And if you're not saved, can I just say this? There's no reason for you to be lost. Christ died for your sin. He was buried, rose again the third day. Lives to give eternal life to whosoever will, swallow your pride, ditch your religion, throw away your excuses, and run to Christ and find eternal life. Do it before it's eternally too late. And dear saved brother, sister, know this. You're not going to make it to heaven without him. You need him. I need him. And here's what I'm finding out. The older I get, the more I need him. I need thee every hour. I need the Lord, and you need the Lord. And you need to have a right and proper relationship with him and be in fellowship and talk with him and lean on him and lay your burdens at his feet. You know, he's really the answer to everything if we'll just look to him. You struggling this morning, you need that one man to help you. I wish I could help you. Man, there are things and my nature is I'd love to help everybody and do everything for everybody, but I just can't do it. There's things that I can't do. There's a work in our hearts that only God can do. But yet I'm glad I can stand here and tell you there is one man who can. There's a man who can help you this morning. And the good news is he's not just a man. He's the God man. He's the Son of God. He's the one who came and lived on this earth as as deity, yet took upon himself flesh. And dwelt among us. And John said, we beheld his glory. We got to peek into what he really was The only begotten of the Father, he was full of grace and truth. And can I just say this? There ain't nobody like him. And you need to look to him this morning. And live for Him. Dear friend, are you saved? And Christian, are you serious about living for God? Are you saved and are you serious? That's really all that matters. When this thing wraps up. It ain't gonna matter where you work, what you drove, ha what you owned, you're gonna leave that for the next one. But if you've lived for Christ, if you've lived for Him, you're not leaving anything, you're going to what you've laid up. Are we serious about living for the Lord? I wonder that. May the Lord help us. Would you stand with me?