Able to pray and know that there's a God in heaven who answers prayer. I remind you again that the power of prayer is not in the people doing the praying, but the God who's doing the listening That's the true power of prayer. The God who hears and answers prayer, thank God He does. Amen. First Timothy chapter one, verse one, please, is where I'd like for you to turn this morning. 1 Timothy chapter 1 and verse 1. It's an introduction to the book of Timothy, the first book of Timothy. But in the introduction, I believe, is the key to the whole book. Someone said that God often leaves the key in the front door, and he does so here. So in First Timothy chapter one verse one, would you stand with me when you find your place and let me read this text The Bible says Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the commandment of God our Savior And Lord Jesus Christ, which is our hope. Now you know those words that are italicized there or have been put there by the English translators. For ease of reading. So let's take those two words out and just simply read that statement again. And Lord Jesus Christ, our hope. Sort of adds a little emphasis where the emphasis needs to be. He is our hope. I want to talk about that, maybe not in the way we often think about But as the Lord helps us, I pray he'll open this book to us this morning. Father, we come in Jesus' name, and we certainly need your help once more. We pray and bow before you, Lord, because Lord, what I'm about to do and what we're about to experience together has got to be from heaven above. And so I pray, dear Lord, that you would give what's needed, give us ears to hear and hearts to obey. And would you speak, Lord, like only you can? For these few moments, Lord, hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. And we'll thank you and praise you for all that you do, for we pray in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. I do want to remind you that the word hope in the Bible is not a fanciful wish. It is a confident expectation. Titus talks about the blessed hope and the glorious appearing of her great God and Savior, Jesus Christ The coming of the Lord Jesus is not a fanciful wish. The coming of the Lord Jesus is the confident expectation of everybody who's saved. He is coming. He said, If I go, I will come again to receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also. So he is coming. It's a confident thing. We're confident about this because we have the promises of God. But now when we read this Letter, we read the chapter. I'm going to touch on several verses in the chapter of 1 Timothy chapter 1. Paul is right from the beginning telling Timothy where our hope is. If you will, the word hope, and it's by the way, it's used here different than just about every other time in the Bible. There's about three other times that it's used like this, and it's the idea of the foundation of. The foundation of. So when he said Timothy, Jesus Christ or Lord Jesus Christ is our hope. He's our foundation. All of our hope is in Him. Everything's built on Him. I think the hymn writer said it best when he wrote On Christ the Solid Rock I Stand. All of the ground is sinking sand. I remember when Sarah was little she would sing and she sang a lot in church when she was little, but I I got to listening to her and she made up her own words And she would say all of the ground is stinking sand, stinking sand, you know. And I thought, well, she's not too far off. I mean it sinking and stinking is about the same thing. Neither one of them are stable. But all of the ground is sinking sand. Timothy he said, I want you to know something that all of the foundation upon which you build must be built on the person of Jesus Christ. There's no other foundation you can build on. Everything else is faulty. Colossians 1. 27, we read the text, but let me read it again, please. Colossians 1 27 says, to whom God would make known What is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory? Here's our hope, church. Here's the foundation of all that we believe. Here is what is important and critical and And and and and what really matters in in when you compare everything else, this is what matters. Jesus Christ our hope. The Lord Jesus Christ, our hope. Now you say, why is that important? Well, let me just by way of introduction say three things about Jesus Christ that can't be said about anything else or anyone else. Number one, he is unchanging. He's unchanging. Do you realize that here we sit this morning and the same Jesus that the Apostle Paul preached, loved, served, followed Live for, counted on is the same Jesus that we live for, serve, love, follow, and count on, and he hadn't changed a bit He has not diminished at all? Do you ever go back and look at pictures and see them and say, who is that? Huh? Go back a few decades and you look at that and you're like, wow, I I didn't know that time had done all of this to me. You know, what it was that I was reading, I was reading in the scripture, and the Bible uses very graphic language about getting older. It uses language like being well stricken with years. That's pretty true, isn't it, brothers, sisters? Well stricken. Well, the reality is everything we know anything about save Jesus is subject to change. Everything changes. We change culturally, we change personally, everything around us is constantly changing. Why, if we were to go back a hundred and fifty years and go to church with some people that we well near uh idolize, w we would say, Man, they're weird. Because culture changes. Now you know there's some things I I was thinking the other day about how the deacons, what the deacons used to do, and it was deacons and ushers that had this responsibility They had these big long sticks and they had a little knot on the end of them, and if you dozed off in service, they'd peck you on the head to wake you up I've often thought about resurrect resurrecting historical things and uh electing some individuals to go about the business, you know. If you've ever preached at Baltimore Rescue Mission, they still do that, not with a stick, but with the person who goes around, gives you a good shift uh shake and says, Hey, wake up, buddy. Uh this is important. But You know, culture changes and church changes and people change and everything we know changes. But Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and forever, he's unchanging. Not only is Jesus unchanging, but the Lord Jesus is unequaled. If I can put it in very plain language, there ain't nobody like him. Nobody compares, nobody's on the level, nobody rises to that state. He alone is unequaled. You can't put nobody on the same platform as the blessed Lord Jesus. He stands alone. Don't forget that, dear brother or sister. And not only is he unchanging, he's unequal, but thank God for this great truth, he's unending. He is unending. He has no beginning and no ending. He's the eternal one, the eternal God. And listen, dear friend, a as we think about our hope this morning, we think about our foundation, we think about what we build upon, we build upon the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so long as He lives, all is well. Now as we go through the scriptures here in 1 Timothy chapter 1, I want you to remember that word foundation. Number one, he's the foundation for sound doctrine. Paul is concerned about that because he wrote in verse 3. I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus when I went into Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine. He charged him, Don't teach any other doctrine. You teach the doctrine of Scripture. Neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies which minister questions rather than godly edifying which is in faith so do. Do you realize that all good doctrine starts with the person of Jesus Christ? All good doctrine by the way, if you're wrong about him, you're wrong, period. Don't matter whatever uh all other else you may get right, the truth of the matter is if you're wrong about Jesus, you're just wrong. I don't say this arrogantly, but I say it very adamantly. Mormonism is wrong. Wrong about Jesus. That's its key. It's wrong about Jesus Jehovah's Witness are wrong because they're wrong about Jesus. And anybody that would distort what the Bible clearly says about the Lord Jesus is wrong because he's the foundation of our doctrine. Timothy, when you go, you charge them that they teach another doctrine. Now, two things were a problem there, and he identifies them. He says, fables and endless genealogies. Fables are superstitious stories, which may or may not be true. Moralized things. Things that were just taken and sort of turned into uh you know fairy tales, if you will, those fables. Isn't it amazing how much stock people put in superstitious silliness over the scriptures? And look, that's not done with. Today we still have people that are superstitious. And they put more stock in some old, and and I don't know where this comes from, and no offense to anyone, but but I don't know where this old wives tales. You know the old wives tales I remember as a little boy hearing some of the older ladies they'd come over see my mom and they'd be talking about something and I'd hear it as a little boy and I'd go tell daddy and I'd say, Daddy, they were saying this. He said, Son, that's just an old wives tale. Don't pay no attention to that I'd be worried about it like it was true. And you know, isn't it amazing how we elevate things that are silly and superficial and superstitious to the same level as Scripture? I've heard people say, Well the Bible says God helps those that help themselves. Pray tell where. In principle or precept? No, no. The Bible don't say that. Now, some of you look at me like, oh, that's not in the Bible. No, it's not. You know who God helps? He helps the helpless. He's the helper of the fatherless. He's the helper of those that have no one. He's the one that you turn to when there's nowhere else to turn to and there's no other solution. He's the solution. I'm just saying that he's the basis, the foundation of all sound doctrine. In fact, I do believe that you can test doctrine by starting with the person of Jesus Christ, and if it veers off from there, then you know there's a problem. So he's the foundation for sound doctrine. Number two, he's the foundation for straight living. Straight living. Can I go back just a minute and talk about these endless genealogies? These endless genealogies, the Jews were notorious for trying to prove their pedigree. I'm of the tribe of Benjamin. I'm of the tribe of Judah. You know, and they were and they felt like that gave them some superiority because of their pedigree. Can I say to you, dear friend, i i if your mother, grandmother, grandfather, don't matter who was a Christian You got to get saved just like they had to be saved. There's no pedigree in the family of God. And we often say, well, you don't know who I am. You know, it really don't matter who you are. What matters is who Jesus is. And if you're rightly related to him, we're brothers and sisters in Christ. Isn't that a blessed thing? Oh, listen, dear friend, those inless. You know what all that did? It ministered questions It just led to, well what about this? What about have you noticed how Jesus sort of puts a period He just he's final. What the Bible says about him is just final. There's there's no no no question marks behind who and what he is. And here's what Paul was telling Timothy to do. He said, You preach this because it leads to godly edifying which is in faith. That godly building up That godly building up. I'm going to tell you something. We don't need more flesh in the church. We need less. Your carnal curiosities don't need to be piqued from the pulpit. Your spiritual man needs to be fed and challenged and charged and built up around the person of Jesus Christ. That's why this is not an entertainment stage. This is not a place to amuse. It's not a place to uh to simply just uh tickle your emotions and and suit your fancies, it's where Christ is preached. We've got a sign right here. Brother Hash, Joe Hash, old Joe Hash made this for me. It says, Sir, we would see Jesus. Preacher Dixon, I think, had a paper one here, and old Brother Joe made us a wooden one, so it'll stay here hopefully a little longer. But listen, you know what we need to see? We need to see Christ. He is the answer. That godly edifying in faith, he says, so do. Get with it. And so we see he's the foundation for sound doctrine. Again, he's the foundation for straight living. Look in verse 5. If you want a Bible definition of what it means to be a Christian, right here it is. The end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart and of a good conscience and of faith unfaint. That's what Christianity is. If you want to find out what the Bible says, now Christian, look, not everybody who says I'm a Christian is a Christian. You can claim the name and not have the nature, and there's a world of difference between the two Here's what he said. Here's what a Christian is. It's someone who has charity out of a pure heart, someone who has a good conscience before God and men, and someone whose faith is unfained. That means unmasked. It's unhypocritical. It's not a show. You know a lot of people all they got is Sunday religion. That's all it is It's not salvation, it's not Christianity. They put on their Sunday suit and they put on their Sunday smile and they put on their Sunday way and then they live like hell Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, rest of the week That's not salvation, brother. That's not salvation, dear sister. Salvation is a change in your life that is starts in the heart and shows through every aspect of your being. Oh dear friend, I hope to see him here in a few days. He was song leader for me for years. And boy, when God got when God saved him, his life had to change big time. Big time. When he got saved, I remember the first time we went hunting together and and we were hunting in the daytime, which is when you're supposed to hunt. And he said You know, it's kind of odd to be out here hunting in the daytime. I said, why's that? He said, I always hunt at night with a flashlight, you know. He was a poacher I'll tell you the population of wild animals in that county doubled after he got converted to Christ. Because he wasn't like that no more. And and and just trying to be honest and do right. Look, he didn't have to go be instructed in that and say, now, now you could better take that class on poaching is a sin. No, he had the Holy Ghost inside of him who said, Hey, that's not right anymore. That's you don't do that, you go the other way. He didn't even hear a message on it, Brother Lee. He just knew because the Holy Ghost inside of him bore witness and said, Hey, this is the way. I'm talking about a foundation for for straight living. Uh Christianity is not a performance. It's a work of transformation. Christ in you, remember the text? Colossians 1 27, Christ in you, the hope of glory. If Christ is in you, Christ will show through you. If Christ lives in you, He'll be evident about you. If Christ is in you, there'll be a difference concerning you. Why? Because Christ is in you. It's not a matter of being performing or a performer, it's a matter of being transformed. And word to God we get back to that. Because I'm telling you, there's a whole lot of Christians so-called. that live in such a way that anybody could do that if they just learn to do it. I do believe you could train a monkey to do what most Christians do. But what we need is not something we're trained to do, it's the transformation of the Holy Spirit on the inside. God will make you different if you belong to Him. You can rest assured in that. He won't leave you like he found you. Now listen to me, if you're not saved, he's going to take you just like you are. There's not a thing you can do, there's not a thing you can accomplish. to to clean yourself up or straighten up. You just need to come to him like you are. Come in all your sin. Come in all your filth. Come in all your brokenness. Come in all your lostness. But come and when you come to him be ready because he ain't going to leave you like that He's not going to leave you like he found you. Thank God for that. Imagine going to the doctor to try to get some help and having to walk away and say , can't help me. You break your arm, you fall and break your arm, you go to to get it set and a cast and all that business and and he says, I I'm sorry, I I'll give you some medicine for pain. And and let that thing begin to try to grow back Twisted or deformed? No. You want that thing fixed. You want it set straight. You want it you want what's broken to be put back together. And I'm glad the God of heaven does that when he saves a person's life. He saves your soul. It's the foundation for straight living. Christianity, oh that God would help us see it, Christianity comes from Jesus Christ. It's an inside job that works to the outside of an individual. And I fear over the years we've filled our churches with people that have conformed who have not been transformed. They conform to what they're told. Uh some of our churches are just like little hot dog factories. We just throw them out at the end and they all look the same. You can't tell one from the other. That's not what Jesus does. He works in a man's heart And he takes that man in all the raw uh uh state of what he is and he starts making him brand new and says, Now this is what a person looks like when they're saved by grace. This is what it looks like to be a Christian. Thank God he's the foundation for straight living. I think it goes without saying, but I'll say it anyhow, he's the foundation for salvation. In verse 11 here, the Bible makes this statement, according to the glorious gospel, of the blessed God which was committed to my trust. What is the glorious gospel of the blessed God? What is that glorious gospel? Well, the glorious gospel is Christ died for our sin, according to the Scripture. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scripture. You see, the gospel is not a plan, it is a person. I can't emphasize that enough, I don't think. We often reduce the s the salvation of our soul to three steps or four or five, depending on what a stripe yar. And we say if you take this step, you get said then this and that and the other. We make it steps. It's not steps. You're lost or you're saved. You're dead or you're alive. It's not a process. It's not it i it's not a pro listen now, your coming to the understanding of the truth may be quite a lengthy thing. I mean, it it may take some time for you to realize that Jesus is the only way. But in a moment of time you're born into the family of God. Just just like that. It's in a moment of time that you come to Christ. This German I was telling you about his dear wife had been uh had her mind poisoned by Jehovah's Witness, and she did not believe that Jesus was the Son of God. And I've seen her, she would weep and cry and say, I want to believe, but I just don't believe he is. I've been told she couldn't get away, by the way, you know what that's called? It's called brainwashing. She couldn't get away from the brainwashing that she had encountered all those years. And I remember one evening we were going through the Gospel of John, and I was pointing out every time that the deity of Jesus Christ was declared by John. And if you take the time to do it, man, John's full of it. You can't hardly get off a verse, let alone a page, that without seeing some declaration of the deity of Jesus Christ. And we're going along and and we got, I don't know, we weren't even halfway through the book, and I remember hear I heard her start weeping a little bit. Like she was broken and and I I read that verse again and and and all of a sudden she started saying, He is God. He is God. She said a little louder, He is God. He is God. You say, What happened? She was born into the family. Salvation's not stages, it's not processes, it's not steps, it's not plans, it's the blessed person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And when you put your trust in him, you're born into the family of God. In a moment of time. In a moment of time. Don't let the devil muddle up your mind, because he sure will. He'll muddle up your mind and make you say think, well now, did I pray the right prayer? Did I say the right things? You know what you're doing? You're saying, Lord, I've got to help you out here. Because you can't save me without me. Without me Got news for you. He don't need you to save your soul. Look, the only contribution you made to salvation is your dirty rotten sin. Salvation is of the Lord. And my friend, listen, when you come to Him, it's not the prayer you pray. You say, Well, I wonder if I was sorry enough. It's not about being sorry enough. It's not about weeping enough. You say, well, did I cry? You know there's some people, their personalities are such that they're not emotionally touched by a whole lot of things. Now you might find this odd, but you can get saved without shedding a tear. Because I don't read nowhere in my Bible that shedding a tear saves a man. Now the Holy Ghost will break you up and there's a whole lot of tears often shed. But what I'm saying is you're not saved by the shedding of tears. You're not saved by the praying of prayers. Well, I just I I hope I I believe all the right things. Hope I believe all the right things. You know, the Lord saved me as an eight-year-old boy. I'm now fifty-two and not good in math. How long is that? It's a long time. But here's what I'm going to tell you. There's a lot of things I started out believing that the Bible straightened out. The Bible straightened you out. There are things I believe because somebody told me, Y'all believe that. It's in the Bible. Never took time to show me. But they said it's in there. Isn't it better to open the Bible and see it for yourself? And read it and say, now it does say that. Lo and behold. And believe it because the Bible says it, not just because somebody else said it. Oh, did I believe all the right things? I'll tell you what the Bible says: believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Plain and simple. Believe on Him. Do you know you can be saved and be off on some stuff that's in the Bible? You know, as independent Baptists, we're we're awful sure, and we ought to be sure about what we believe. But uh I I don't know that sometimes we think we're right about everything. And uh God help us and deliver us from that sort of pride. Now I'll tell you what I know is right, the Bible's right. I don't understand it all and I sure ain't got a good handle on it all. I remember saying to a Bible college teacher, I said, Sir, I'm trying to get a handle on it. He said, Stop. He said, Let it get a hold of you. You get a hold of it and you'll start messing with it. Let it get a hold of you and it'll straighten you out. Let it get a hold of us. Thank God for it. The foundation for salvation is the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me go on to say he's not only the foundation for salvation, but he's the foundation for service. You notice in verse 12 what Paul said, and I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry. Who was before a blasphemer and a persecutor and injurious, but I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. And the grace, look at this, of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love, which is in Christ Jesus. You know what he said? It is God who put me in the ministry. I thank the you know he didn't say I thank the apostles for putting their hands on me and putting me in the ministry I was looking yesterday, I believe it was, yeah, yesterday evening. I was over here. I just happened to look at my ordination papers there, and I got them in a little frame there. And a lot of those men are in heaven now that put their hands on me September the fifth, nineteen ninety-five, and ordained me to the gospel ministry. But those dear men didn't put me in the ministry. They simply acknowledged what God had already done in my heart. It is, he said, I thank our Lord Jesus Christ. Our Lord who hath enabled me. Notice, I'm talking about the foundation of our service. Why do we do what we do? We do it for him. He enables. He's the one that enables. He's the one that equips. It's the Lord, church. If you do anything for Christ, make sure you do it with the help of the Lord Jesus Christ. That it is his enabling. He said, He enabled me. I appreciate listen, don't misunderstand what I'm about to say. I I appreciate when people say, Pastor, I appreciate that message. It encourages me to know it done some good. But here's what I also know. It's the Lord Jesus Christ who enabled me. If the hand of God were taken off any one of us, it'd be a sad, sad thing. Remember Samson when he was and I don't think, you know, I see these Sunday school papers and Samson he's drawn like he's got these massive muscles. I don't think he was like that. In fact, I think he might have been a little wiry dude, a little skinny fella, because God would get more glory out of that. Here's a guy, and I mean he backed up to the gates of Gaza, the iron gates of Gaza, and pulled them jokers up and carried them up on the hill and threw them down. He didn't do it because he had big muscles in his body. He did it because he had a big God on his side. It was not what he could do in the power of his flesh, it's what he did in the power of God. He said, Lord, you enabled me. And Paul, you know, if we had if Paul had if we could go back and the apostle Paul comes scurrying across this pulpit and stand here, we would think, oh my word. Do you think that little fellow could do anything? He said he was quite reproachful of appearance. Have you ever been somewhere and you look at somebody, now look, if you're saved for a while And you've been in church, and a lot of you have, you you know what I'm about to say. You look at some fellas and you think, I don't think they can preach. Just like we can tell something from the outside, you know, they just don't look like a preacher. I remember one fellow he got up to preach and he said, I'm looking at you, and I think you're looking at me, and he said, I know some of you are asking the question, can he preach? He said, I'm standing here looking at you wondering if you can take it. See, both can be wrong, amen. Truth is, we can be off on this thing. It's not what a man looks like, it's not the outward appearance, it's the enabling of the Lord Jesus Christ. When he does the work, what a work it is. He enabled me. And then he goes on. He says he's opened the door. He gave me the opportunity. Oh, that we'd see that again. He gave the opportunity. You know, I know there's a process and an order that you've got to go through, but but listen, the provision for laborers in the service of God ought to be fundamentally a work of God. Where he opens the door. Where he provides, where he leads, where he's the one who superintends. It's not a politician show. You know, a lot of preachers, God bless them, but It's like they're politically jockeying for the bigger position. You know, kissing little ugly stinky babies and shaking hands a Hateful mean people and trying to get some I'm telling you something. If God opens the door, hell itself can't close it. And if God closes the door, you don't want it open You hear me? I'm saying, my friend, listen, it is God who's sufficient for service. The Lord Jesus Christ is the foundation of all our service. Look what he said. And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. Paul said everything I did was by the grace of God. He said, What happened in my life? God sustained me. And he wrote to the Corinthians and he told them all that he had gone through, and you know what it is that brought him through the storms and the the the the necessities and And the distresses, I'll tell you what it was. It was Jesus Christ and the grace of God. And listen to me, whatever God enables you to do He'll give you grace to get it done, and there'll be grace for everything you face, every obstacle, every trial, everything you're staring at. The grace of God will be more than enough. I'm telling you, you'll never exhaust it. You'll never use it up. You'll never say, now Lord, I need you to help me in this, because I just can't go on if the Lord said, Well, I'm sorry, I've never dealt with that. I've never come across something like that before. Oh no. There is grace, exceeding grace, abundant grace. There is plenty of grace, and God's grace will see you through. You might be sitting here with God dealing with your heart and you say, I could just never do that. Maybe you know too much about it, and you say, I could just never do that. I'll tell you what, you can if God helps you You can if God helps you. I remember the night I surrendered to preach. I told preacher, I said, Preacher, I'll do anything. I mean, if he wants me to sing, I can't sing, but I believe he'll help me sing And I said, Preacher, I uh uh if he wants me to go to the mission field, if he just whatever he wants me to do, I'll I'll I'll do. And when I got to that place of surrender, then I knew he wanted me to preach. But it was the least likely thing I ever thought God would have me do. It's against my personality. Was it Dr. Hitchens that said last week that he was amazed at how many introverts are called? Can I tell you something? I'm an introvert with a capital I. I can't help it, it's just how God made me. I remember being a little boy and people would come over, my family would come over and I'd head to the barn. Because I was a whole lot more comfortable around cows than I was people And I'd go hide in the barn, literally. I'd come in a little bit later and say I'd get hungry now, a belly will make you do things, you know And I knew about the time they'd wrapped up eating and I'd slip in. Daddy'd say, Well, you hungry for it? I said, Yes, sir. He said, Well get you something. And I'd get it and out the door I'd go. I'd go back outside and eat. I didn't want to eat in front of people It's backward. And the Lord said, preach. Talk about nearly having a nervous breakdown, Dr. Hitchens. Multiple times over. But here's what I do know. What he tells you to do, you can do because he'll help you do it. That's all I know. He'll help you do it. Because he's able and his grace is exceeding abundant. He's faithful. Look again, the Lord Jesus is the foundation for all our service. Whatever it may be that God puts in your heart to do, you can do it with the help of the Lord. Make your service all about him. You know, if you do something for the sake of doing a job, you'll get tired of it. Actually, you'll get aggravated over it. If you do it for appreciation or recognition, there will be time listen, you'll serve God and oftentimes it'll be rejected. Ask Jeremiah. When God called him and Isaiah likewise, he said, I'm going to send you to people that won't listen. And they're not going to hear you. They're going to stop up their ears. They're going to harden their hearts. But he said, Go anyhow. Now what kept him going? Because God had told him to go and God said, I'm going to go with you. And God will tell you, my friend, and and God tells me, go and we go, and oftentimes that service is rejected, sometimes it's ridiculed, sometimes it's refused. But listen, it'll take us back. Why am I doing this? I'm not doing it for the recognition or appreciation or even the reception. Why am I doing it? I'm doing it for him. I'm doing it for him because I love him. I'm doing it for him because he loved me. I'm doing it for him because I want to please him. And one day I'm not going to stand before you. I'm going to stand before him and give an account for my life. And so I'll do this for him. You won't teach a Sunday school for decades unless you do it for him. You won't sing faithfully in the choir unless you're up there singing for him. You'll not serve Christ in that way that God puts you, wherever it may be, preaching the word of God, unless you do it for Him. Now, when you're doing it for Him, it changes the whole dynamic. He's the foundation for service. Let me close with this one. He's the foundation for our success. Look in verse 18, please. This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the prophecies which writ before on thee, that thou by them mightest war a good warfare. You understand we're in a battle? Christian? Hey, do you know yesterday was Lester Roloff's birthday? He born in 1914, I think they said But I said that because he used to sing a song, it's it's a battlefield, brother, not a recoration room. It's a battlefield. Christian, you're called there's there's a devil that wants you to stop. You hear me? There's a devil that wants you to stop. You've got a conspira a co-conspirator on the inside called you flesh. It wants you to stop. You you are in a battle against a world system that's anti-God and truth and and is continually assaulting all that you believe. It's not an easy course. You say, how in the world are we going to make it? I'll tell you how. On the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. We, Romans 8:37 says, we are more than conquerors. through him that loved us and gave himself for us. That's only one person. That's Jesus Christ. Our victory and and success in the war is because of the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is my victor. He is the victory. And my friend, if I lean on him and trust him and look to him, I can overcome. Paul wrote this in 2 Corinthians 2, 14, thanks be unto God, which always causeth us to triumph through our Lord Jesus Christ. Always causes us to triumph. Now I'll tell you what, every once in a while you and I get dealt a blow You ever get a blow? I mean just a a blow? And it surprises you. And usually it hurts. The other day I was doing something and something heavy fell and hit me right here where I'd had my surgery and it hurt. I'm not gonna say I cried, but my eyes watered a little bit And I'm trying to I'm reeling from that thing. I think mercy. I didn't s I didn't even see that coming. I was like, where what You know, for a few minutes I thought maybe Elizabeth had took a whack at me. I thought, what? Maybe she snuck around the corner and taught me, you know. She probably should, but nevertheless And you know every once in a while spiritually you'll get a blow. Man, your feet get cut right in mud, and you're like, what? I didn't see that coming How do you get up? You know what the Bible says? That a just man. He'll fall seven times, he'll rise again. You know why he rises? Because he has the resurrection and the life inside of him. He has the Lord Jesus living on the inside. And our victory is not based on our feelings, and our victory It's not based on our circumstance. Our victory is based on the person of the Lord Jesus Christ who lives inside of us. No wonder Paul said in Ephesians 2. 20 that Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone. You know, you take him away and you've got nothing. Got nothing. You take a chief cornerstone out of place and the whole building collapses You take Jesus Christ away, and Christianity is a shale of religious disappointments. But thank God He's real. He lives. And like Paul said, Lord Jesus Christ, our hope. He's our hope. Dear friend, my advice to you this morning is very simple. You better get to know him. Get close to him. Make sure your faith's in him. Follow him. Make it all about him. Just make it all about him. Don't make it a little bit about you and a whole lot about him. Make it all about him. Make your Christianity a life of Christ in you, where you live so that others see Christ, not you. Make it all about Him. Make Him the emphasis. Here's what John said in John 3. 30 He said he must increase and I must decrease. Make it about him Now, if you're not saved today, you need to come to Jesus. I'm not asking you to join Marinath Baptist Church. I'm not asking you to be baptized. I'm not asking you to repeat something after me. I'm simply asking you today on the authority of the Word of God to believe on the Lord Jesus who took every one of your filthy sins and paid for them in full on Calvary. He was buried in the grave and three days later he got up and he said, I'll give eternal life to whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord. If you'll call on him, he'll save you right where you are. You might be a religious hypocrite, you might have been playing the game, you might have been holding the name, but you've never been changed inside. Put all of that stuff away, throw it all out the window, come to Jesus like you are and say, God save me and make me a new creature, and I'll tell you what he'll do. He'll take you up on the proposition. He'll save you this morning if you'll let him Dear friend, if you're not where you ought to be with God, just get right with God. You don't have to get right with people necessarily to get right with God, you've got to get right with God first, then let Him tell you what to do about people Get right with God. Get right with Christ. Get right get close to Him. You know the safest place for the sheep is right up next to the shepherd. That's the safest place. And the Lord is our shepherd. That's a safe place to be, church. As you get close to him, you you get in that place where you're off limits from the enemy. Because he's protecting you. Get close to that shepherd. Follow him. May the Lord help us. You've got a need this morning. These altars are open. We're going to stand together. I want the pianist to play on