Putting things together. I want you to open your Bibles to Philippians chapter number two, and I want to begin reading in verse number twenty-five. And I want to preach a message tonight on a biblical perspective on the people of God. You and I need to view each other through the lens of Scripture. I walked back in the back there, those the men were practicing, and they were singing that song, a band of brothers. And as I heard that, I said, Lord, thank you for confirming what we sometimes struggle to know, and that is, is this your will? And I'm grateful that God's word helps me see things the way they are. You say, what's reality right here? And I've got to see things like they are. You see, the way you view one another, I I think there's one thing that I have witnessed over the years that has done more damage than anything else I could name or identify. And that is the way God's people view God's people. Sometimes we look at one another through the lens of our failures. And we look at that individual, and you know what we see? We see what they were, not what they are. That'll hurt you. Uh all of God's people have a story of some sorts. And we've got to be careful that we view one another through the lens of truth. Sometimes we like the early church, you know, it's interesting there in the book of James. That James warned the Christians that when a rich man came in their midst, to be careful how they treated them, because the tendency of that early church, they would treat those rich people much better than they would the poor And he had to rebuke them for that. And said you've become judges of evil thoughts And these uh these individuals would look and they would they would uh look at uh people through the lens of their possessions. I love what Spurgeon wrote about his church. He said the banker and the pauper worship on the same pew. And enjoy the blessings of the same God. Isn't that the beauty of being a Christian? That all of those non-essential things are left outside or should be. But if we don't view one another through the lens of Scripture, you know, sometimes if we're not careful, we'll view one another through the lens of personality. Everybody's got a personality. Even if you don't have a personality, that's your personality. And so we'll view one another through that. And oftentimes that's how we define that individual. But I'm glad the blood of Jesus Christ does not regard my personality. It still saves me by his grace. And I've got to see that. I've got to see God's people through the lens of truth. The Bible says in Philippians 2, if you found it, would you stand with me please? Verse 25. Paul writes of a brother, and here's what he says, yet I supposed it necessary. To ascend to you Epaphroditus, my brother and companion in labor and fellow soldier, but your messenger, and he that ministered to my wants For he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because that ye had heard that he had been sick. For indeed he was sick, nigh unto death, but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but on me also Lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. I sent him therefore the more carefully, that when you see him again you may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful Receive him, therefore, in the Lord with all gladness, and hold such an reputation, because for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death. not regarding his life to supply your lack of service toward me. Now Paul describes a man here by the name of Epaphroditus and in the description I believe he tells us the way that we ought to view one another as the people of God. How should we look at each other? May the Lord help us to see it. Father, would you in mercy help us just now? We've come now to that very serious time where we open our Bible and hear from heaven. And I pray help to preach, Lord, what you've burdened my heart with, and I pray, dear Lord, for your dear people to hear, with an ear of understanding and a desire to obey. And Lord, would you Do the special work that's needed in each of our hearts. I thank you for the power of your word. I thank you for the truth. And Lord, would you please use it to transform our hearts and lives here this evening? Lord, we love you, and we thank you for your love for us, and thank you for this time To bow our heads and pray, and we ask all these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated I do believe that the devil is an ever active enemy. Whether seen or unseen, he's really attempting to do or undo all that God is doing. And I believe one of the most fatal blows that he deals many a Christian is the blow of a wrong view of God's people. Someone said this suspicion will always find reason to be suspect. You and I have got to be careful in the day that we're living in. The Bible says that the Uh abundance, because of the abundance of iniquity, the love of many will wax cold. And our view will begin, if we're not careful, we'll become cynical and critical and And even get to the place that we're continually suspicious of God's children. But when Paul wrote about this man Epaphroditus, I believe he tells us Not just how he felt, but how you and I should feel about one another. How we should view God's children. How do I look at God's people? Do I look at them through those lenses of suspicion? You know, I remember a certain group, I used to, I love to hear them preach the gospel, but when you got around them, if anybody ever got saved, they would always say, We'll see if it's real. That was their attitude. We'll see if it's real. They couldn't rejoice in anybody being saved because they really didn't believe anybody ever got saved. There was a continual suspicion. And then when somebody messed up, they would say, See, I told you it wasn't real. Well The problem was not perhaps with the convert. The problem was with the converted, who needed to be converted from their conversion. Needed to look at God's people the way we ought to look at God's people. Now, we know this. God's people aren't perfect. That's the reality. Even Paul writing to some of his favorite churches and believers that he loved dearly and was closest to pointed out sin that needed to be addressed in their lives. But the way you view one another will determine the depth of fellowship we have one with another. Oh, listen, you could say, well, preacher, but I I I know too much. I think we need to check what we know at the altar of what God says. Bow to the authority of truth. Epaphyrodatis, I believe, and it's very, very unclear in many ways, we only have two places where he's talked about. We know a bit more about him historically than we do biblically. We know that he was uh perhaps a member of that uh great Praetorian guard that he had fought in the Battle of Philippi and had retired there and been given uh uh perhaps a piece of land because of his bravery in battle And he at this time was probably in his mid-50s as as he would uh hear the apostle Paul preach and be one of his converts and God would use him. I believe he was a pastor there at this time in Philippi, and he was shepherding this flock and and leading them. But be that as it may. When Paul wrote about him He was very specific in the things he identified that he appreciated about the Apostle Paul, or excuse me, about Epaphroditus. The Apostle Paul was very clear. He said, These are the things that stand out to me about him. These are the things that I see first and foremost. He doesn't tell us about his height. He doesn't tell us about his background. He doesn't tell us about his social standing. But he does tell us some things that are very, very important. And I believe there are things that the Lord will help us with. Number one, if you're making notes, how did he view him? Number one, he viewed him as family. You see, family? Look what he says. My brother. My brother. Paphroditus is my brother. He's part of my family. And you know, when we look at the people of God, you and I need to look at them through the lens of the reality that they are family. The Bible says this. Flip back over in a couple of places to the book of Ephesians and Ephesians chapter 2. We've read this recently, but I want you to see it again. Ephesians chapter 2. And verse number 19 says, Now therefore you're no more strangers and foreigners. But you're fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. You're part of the family. You see, when you got born again, you got born again into the family of God. And when I look at a brother or sister in the Lord Jesus, I need to recognize them for what they are. They are family. Paul writes again Ephesians chapter 3, verse 14 and 15. He says, For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named. That whole family, now that's a big old family. That family has some members are already on the other side, but they're still family. The family down here, uh listen, we're still family. And when you view the people of God, you need to see them through the lens of truth. And the lens of truth says this, they are family. That's my brother or my sister in the Lord Jesus Christ. We share a common father, have the same elder brother, been vault by the same blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. We're saved by grace through faith and been brought into the family through the new birth. We're family. We're family. When Paul identified Eupaphrodis, he didn't say that great uh soldier from Philippi. He didn't say uh that that man who uh again, who risked his life and did heroic things initially. He said he's my brother. That's where he started And can I say to you that that that's where we need to start in our view of one another? Oh, but preacher, I I don't like hey, how many of you know you don't have no choice over your family? Right? You got born into that family. Alright? You didn't get to pick. You didn't get a roster and say, okay, do you want this family, that family, this No, no, you got the family. And I'll tell you what, you don't have no say over your spiritual family. It's God who births the family. It's God who brings in it's God who saves. And what we must do is recognize The reality that Jesus Christ saves and makes that man or woman a brother or sister in the Lord Jesus Christ and makes them family. I think about ninety-nine percent of our quarrels and contentions would die right here if we would just see that's family. Remember what Abraham said to Lot? He said, We be brethren. There was contention over their possessions, and they was quarreling over all of their things. And he said, Hold on a minute. We're family. We're family. Family don't do this. And so you need to see, and I need to see that God's people are family. Paul said he's my brother. And I don't think it's on accident that he listed it in this fashion that he that he started at this point, because this is where we've got to start And the only way that I can say you're my brother or you're my sister or vice versa is to know that you have been saved, and I have been saved by the wonderful grace of God. We're not family because we go to the same church. Not family because we go to the same church. We're not family because we have an independent Baptist conviction. We're not family just simply because, you know, I've watched churches over the years and some build around what they hate They build around all the things they just don't like. And they say, no, I don't like that. I don't like this. I don't like that. Well, good, you can be a part of it's because we all don't like it. They ought to call themselves the church of the haters. Well we just hate all this, you know. I remember a old fellow one time he got up to preach when I was a little boy and somebody said, he said, I'm against it. He said, I you you name whatever you want to name, I'm against it. Somebody out in the congregation said, Jesus. He said, smart Alec. Well, you know, but you know what I'm saying is true? A lot of times we build on the wrong foundation. The foundation we build on as a family. Is our mutual faith in the Lord Jesus who loved us and gave himself for us, Church? Beware of any other foundation. Did he not say here in the text of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named? And then back there in Ephesians uh what is it chapter number two he talked about that foundation. He talks about here in verse nineteen, we're no more strangers, foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints in the household of God. And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. That's the foundation. The rock upon which we stand as a church is our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the unshakable, immovable part of what it means to be a Christian. Oftentimes our little uh pet ponies and peeves and all the things that we want a hobby horse on, we make those the foundation. I've got news for you. Those will change in time. All the hobby horses will get rowed, their legs will be run off of them, and they'll have to build new ones. And the very things that was was such a big deal in one day is not a big deal anymore. But I'll tell you what's always the same Jesus Christ to say yesterday, today, and forever. Oh church, know this, know this, that we are a family. Number two though, Paul goes on to say, and he talks he talks about Epaphroditus in this way, and he calls him a companion. in labor. A companion in labor. Now there's another word that's used in the New Testament that's translated a little bit differently. And yet it's really the same meaning or the same word. It's the thing of a fellow laborer. So not only are we family, but we're fellow laborers. Listen to what Paul says over here. In 1 Thessalonians chapter number 3. 1 Thessalonians chapter number 3 and verse 2, he's talking about Timotheus. And again, notice he says, our brother. Our brother. See, those early saints did not take for granted the special bond that was built by the new birth. That's my brother, our brother. And then he said, and minister of God and fellow laborer in the gospel of Christ. That's what he was. He was a fellow laborer in the gospel of Christ. When he wrote about Philemon in Philemon 1 in verse 1, he points out that Philemon was a fellow laborer. You say, what's a fellow laborer? A fellow laborer is someone who works in the same business. Someone interested in the same pursuit, someone that possessing the same ends or the same goals or the same purposes. One who works together in the furthering of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's a fellow laborer. Now, know this, when you look at God's people, you're looking at fellow laborers. You're looking at individuals who are working together for the cause of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's what we're called to do. It's how we're to view one another. When he looked at Epaphrodotus, he said, that's a fellow laborer. We're working together for the same end. I I'm I'm a little bothered at times by the spirit we see among a lot of Christians when there's an attitude that somehow or another God's people Are on a different team. Now, look, I don't have to believe everything you believe I 'm not talking about compromising truth. But I believe there comes a place where you get your little boat in the water and keep your oar on your boat and just sail away. You understand what I'm saying? Went to a camp meeting, Joe. You might remember we were down in in the valley, they called it the Blue Nose camp meeting and At camp meeting, the old preacher got up and he said, Now I don't know a lot of you preachers out there. He's looking, you know, sort of suspicious of everybody. He said, but I'll tell you what we do around here. He said we row our own boats. I said, that's good. We'll just row our own boats. Don't throw it don't try to row mine and and I won't try to row yours and we'll row our own boats. I'm not talking about going against the teaching of the Word of God But I'm talking about the understanding that we're fellow laborers in the cause of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul had such a big mind about this when he wrote, and he said, some there in Philippians chapter 1, when he wrote about some preaching Christ, he said, some preach him of contention. Hoping to add to my bonds. He understood full well they were down there there were people that were rascals and people that were just ornery and they were out there preaching so to get Paul in more trouble. And they said, we're going to stow the pot so he'll get the heat and it's going to be on him. That's what they were doing. And he said some out of sincerity have been they've been made, and I'm I'm paraphrasing here, but they've been made more bold. They've been exercised in boldness because they see me suffering gladly for the cause of Jesus Christ. He said What's that? It really don't matter. Christ is preached. And I rejoice and therein will rejoice. You know a lot of times we get the Spirit about us that if you don't dot your I's and cross your T's and part your hair and spit this way and that way and do everything that everybody else does that they're just not for Christ. I've got news for you. That's of the flesh and of the devil Because the reality is, my friend, when the gospel we're fellow laborers in the gospel of Jesus Christ. I'm not talking about holding hands with Joel Osteen. He's a heretic. He don't tell people how to get saved. He tells them how to live a good life. He ought to write motivational books instead of stand behind the minister's desk and preach the truth. But I am talking about recognizing that God's little children, God's little children are often very unique. I think of the preachers I grew up around, and most of them you'd be scared to death of. Strange. Unusual men I was listening to my pastor preach that message on the goodness of God, and they got so excited I couldn't hear him preaching. And I guess I've been up north too long because I felt like saying, stop all that shouting, because I want to hear what he's saying Couldn't hear a thing. But they were so excited about the the goodness of God. You say that's wrong. Well, let the Lord work that thing out. I find a whole lot more Bible to praise the Lord than I do to sit on my hands with my mouth shut and my lip run out. Find a whole lot more But the reality is, my friend, that God wants you to see and me to see God's children. You know what they are? They're fellow laborers. Fellow laborers. I'm not going to put a hole in somebody's boat just because it's not mine. I'm not going to blow somebody out of the water just simply because they're not rowing like I row. Let them stand and fall before their own master. I'm not the master. But if Christ be preached, I don't have a problem with anybody that takes a high view of God. A high view of God. Now I got problems with this crowd that That tries to humanize deity and deify humanity. Because I don't see that in my precious Bible Even Jesus, the Son of God, my friend, was still God, the very God. But we're fellow laborers. The joy of Paul's heart was to see the gospel go forth. I went with a missionary from Australia and we went to a funeral down in the eastern part of state of North Carolina and And uh I'd been pastoring maybe three months, thought I knew everything, was about to figure out I didn't know anything And uh the preachers up there conducting the funeral and doing things I wouldn't do, and nothing against the scripture, but just different. And you know what I was doing in that funeral? I'm sitting there Andy and I'm writing him a note. Now if I was you, this is what I'd do. I'd take the Bible and blah blah blah blah. I got a whole page full of notes. And uh Brother Gill, he was an Australian. And you know how blunt they can be. Some of you remember our dear brother. That's in heaven now. He he said, hand me that. And I handed him that piece of paper. He said, Looks like you got him straightened out. He said, It's a shame you're not God. You say, what'd you do? I hid that thing. I was ashamed I wrote it, and I was I didn't want nobody else to see it, and as soon as I could I got rid of it But sometimes we get that spirit. Bless God, if I was I'll tell you what, if I if I was them, can I give you a news flash? You're not? Just you're not. Not trying to be smart. I'm just trying to be real about how we view one another You're not the authority, and I'm not the authority. We got one authority. It's right here in these 66 books. This is the authority. And it's on this I must bow. So how do I look at God's people? I need to look at them as family. I need to look at them as fellow laborers. Number three, how do I look at God's people? I need to see them as fellow soldiers. Look what Paul writes. He says, Epapyritus, my brother, companion in labor, and fellow soldier. I like this definition. It means to be an associate in conflict. An associate in conflict. Hey, do you understand that you're in the trenches together? We're in the trenches. Say, you're fighting the same battles. Many of God's people, all of us are engaged in some way or another, with the flesh, with the world, and with the devil. There is a mutual battle that's raging, and and we are associates in this conflict, this war of the ages. And by the way, there's a special bond that forms when men fight together. I had two deacons in that first church. I told you about one of them this morning. I'll tell you about the other one now. He was the Vietnam vet. His company had gotten ambushed and and he and about ten other men were separated and lived in the jungle for several months. They found an old uh landfield And they would slip in at night and get things that had been thrown away to live on Probably to this day, as brother's still alive, he he made the statement, he said, I cannot drink pineapple juice. I said, why? He and I were on a trip together. And he said, you know, I I found in that dump an old can of pineapple juice and he said I remember opening it and drinking it. He said it was bad, but I drunk it anyway because I didn't have anything else. So I can't stand the smell, the taste And those men fought together. Many of them died. This brother, just before they were rescued, was shot full of shrapnel, and he he was really in bad shape. And about that time they were they were rescued, discovered, and they were medevaced out to safety. He talked about those men. He talked about them like they were the dearest men on earth to him. He said, we fought battles together. He said we fought the enemy together. We covered each other's back. We stood for one another Boy, he talked about it in such a way it just made you, you know, just almost shiver inside of the of the heroism that was involved and of the uh of the courage that it must have taken to be such men. When I resigned to go north, I remember there's such a sweet send-off, and they ask him to speak. He has a big deep voice. Great big old man. And he got up and he said, Preacher, we fought some good battles together. He said we won a few and we lost a few. But he said we locked armed in the trenches. And I'll tell you, I heard I knew the stories of these Vietnam days. I'd heard some of that. And for him to liken that to this spiritual battle made my heart swell with pride. That we were in the same battle. We were brothers in this warfare. We were laboring together in the battle and fighting together as fellow soldiers. Oh my friend, listen, we've got the common enemy, and it's not each other. Oh, we need to remember that. I don't know what technology has done much good. I know what social media has. It's given the dumb the ability to speak. And the reality is there's a whole lot of things we say we ought not to say because not everybody whom we disagree with is our enemy. I think a lot of times we forget who the enemy is. You know who the enemy is? The devil. He's the enemy. And we're fellow soldiers. I know you've heard it said probably continually, but the reality is God's people are about the only ones that shoot their own wounded. We turn like coyotes do on each other, you know. But oh God help us to see we're fellow soldiers. We fight and cover one another. We stand and pray. Lock arms together and say, We're not going to leave you behind. Brother Rodney said when he when he got shot his fear was they'd leave him. And uh a couple of men, he was always a very big man, and he said a couple of them boys grabbed him and said, Come on, we're not leaving you. They took him back to a place of safety and covered him until the copter came, the helicopter came and whisked him away. I've seen him stand with tears and say, I owe my life to those boys. I owe my life to those boys. Hey, you don't know who in God's little family you owe your life to. They got on their knees and prayed when the Holy Ghost said, pray for Mark. They got on their knees and they said, pray for Becky. They got on their knees and they prayed. And you know what? The God of heaven moved and diverted catastrophe because somebody prayed. You know why? We're fellow soldiers. We're covering one another in this battle that we're engaged in. I believe the last title he gave him, Outside of Brother, is probably the most special. You'll notice what he says in the latter part of verse 25, he that ministered to my wants He that ministered to my wants. Look over here in chapter four and verse eighteen. And you'll see Paul's writing to the church and he says, I have all and abound, I am full. having received of the Paphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odor of a sweet smell and a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. I don't know what they took to Paul, but whatever they took to Paul relieved him of some of his suffering. He called them wants. They might have been needs, but he called them wants. Perhaps it was something that made his prison time a little bit more comfortable. Uh certainly they were not interested in in uh uh in making his stay uh you know like a five star hotel stay. I'm sure there was a great deal of of cold and hunger and and all of this that he had to endure but The reality is that the paper disrelieves some of that. You say, what do you call it? Here's what I call him. I call him a friend. He's a friend. Epaphroditus was a friend. Not only was he family, he was a fellow laborer, he was a fellow soldier, but he was a friend. You say, how do you know he was a friend? Because he risked his life for the Apostle Paul. Paul said, when he comes back, you hold him in high regard, because look, for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death. Now what happened to him? He caught something, got sick there because of his journeys. Something happened in his life that took him to the very brink of death, and it was all for the good of the Apostle Paul. And Paul wrote back and said, Now that man's my friend. Can I say to you, Jesus said that a man, there's no greater love than this, that a man do what? Lay down his life for his friend. That's exactly what Epaphroditus was doing here. He wanted to relieve him from some of the sufferings in his trials. I'm going to tell you something. This world's not your friend. Oh preacher, but they're so good to me. Well, it could be just buttering you up. This world's not your friend. This lost world is not the friend of the saved. We're on two roads, two different roads. Walking two different paths. But I'll tell you who will be there. I mean when the rubber meets the road, when all the bottom falls out, you know who will be there? God's little people. Yeah. God's children. God's children. Next year, Lord willing, I live, I'll I'll have been had the privilege of pastoring for thirty years. I've been preaching for a lot longer than that. Almost thirty eight years I guess now But I've been pastoring 30 years. You know what I've watched? I've watched disaster walk into people's lives. And I've watched God's people rally around. They're the ones who walk in when everybody else walks out. We're talking about friends. Friends that have a bond that's much deeper than just mutual enjoyments. Dear brother just met a son he didn't know he had. He met him, and within a month, that young man was dead in a car accident. His heart was broken. He came to church that Sunday night. He said, church, please pray for me. He said, I just got word that my son was killed, and I don't know what I'm going to do. And I watched that church. You know what they did? They were his friend. They come round to him. They prayed for him. They said, Preacher, I hope it's not out of order, but we're going to buy a ticket for him to get clear across the country so he can be there with that uh with with the body of that young man and and right there in that service. I mean it was really nothing organized, but it was organized because the Spirit of God was just working. And they had prayer over that man. They paid for the tickets for that man to go out there and his wife and come back and and looked after all of that right in just a matter of a few minutes of him getting up and saying, Please pray for me, my son's been killed. You know what that's called? That's called friends. That's called friends. Now I'm here to tell you, God's people. You know how we need to look at each other? You need to take your Bible and and let the Bible take those blinders off. You know, if my glasses were dirty, and they probably are, but if my glasses were dirty and I were to look out through there, every one of you would have spots. And I could stand up here Andy and say, Andy, I wish you'd go wear some spots off you And I confess about all the speckles and the and the debris that I'm seeing and and what a difference it would make if I took my glasses off and just cleaned them real good and put them back on. Say, well lo and behold, he don't have the spots no more Sometimes we look at God's people and we look at them through again all of those wrong lenses and we say, Oh, well, I don't have any friends. Well, remember this: he that hath friends must show himself friendly And you do reap what you sow. And I'm here to tell you, my friend, Olypaphroditus, not only was he a friend, he had a friend in the Apostle Paul. Because when he went back, he went back with orders. Church, you hold that man in reputation. He hazarded his life for the gospel. He's a man to be respected and upheld and appreciated because of what he's done. He is my friend. I heard a story about Dr. Dickerson years ago, and there was someone that was looked down upon that should never have been. And he went and sat beside him and said very loudly for all to hear, he's my friend. He's my friend. That meant something to that crowd. You mean he's your friend? Yeah, he's your he's he's my friend. I'm going to tell you something. You you make friends here and there, but the people of God, you ought to look at them. That's my friends. Not only do I have here how Paul viewed Epaphroditus, but I think we have here what we should all strive to be. We have a benchmark that we should say, this is what I want to be. This is the kind of Christian I want to be. I want to be one of those that can be recognized as family. I want to be one of those who's a fellow laborer. I want to be a fellow soldier. And I want to be a friend. A friend. One of the highest Praises given to Jesus. He's a friend of sinners. Oh, I knew it was an insult cast from an unbelieving crowd, but it was really a badge of honor that he wore with great joy. And praise be to God, because if it weren't the truth, you and I'd be in trouble. Jesus is the sinner's friend. And you and I need to view one another through a lens of truth. Can I ask you, how do you look at God's people? And by the way, it's more important now And the longer you labor together, it's more critical that you learn to look through the lens of truth. You know why? Because the longer you labor together, the more easy it is to see faults and failures. They just show up. But if we see each other as family, that's my brother, that's my sister, that elevates a relationship When we see each other as fellow laborers, that engages us in the right activity. When we see each other as fellow soldiers That enlivens us to keep step in this great battle. And when we see one another as friends, It exhorts us to edify one another because it's the truth of God's word. How do you view each other? Do it through the scriptures. May the Lord help us. Would you stand with me please? We're going to pray and be dismissed. We'll not have a hymn of invitation, but