Would you take your Bible, please, and go with me to the book of Acts? Acts chapter number one, and I want to read one verse. In your hearing. Acts chapter number one. And I'm going to read verse number eight. And I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please, as we read the Word of God this evening. Acts chapter number one and verse number eight The Bible says, but ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth I want you to notice that little word, but a word that carries a great deal of meaning, and that's the word power. Ye shall receive power. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you now in Jesus' strong and powerful name and thank you for the opportunity that we have to gather again and seek your face. Lord, hear your voice. Oh, how we pray that we might hear that still small voice this evening as we sit with an open heart and an open Bible Lord, would you do for us what we cannot do for ourselves? Make these truths live in us. And Lord, we'll thank you for what you do. Father, we love you. We thank you for your great love for us. Lord, in these few moments, please hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus and have your way among us, we pray. In Christ's name and God's people said. He can be seated, thank you. And we're adding to the foundation we're trying to lay in the month of January in the studies of the Word of God. And we've come to this thing of power. We have started, of course, uh last Sunday in the As we began to look at that principle and then the prayer on Sunday night, the practice there on Wednesday night. And then our study this morning, but tonight I want us to look at this thing of power. Power. Jesus said, but ye shall receive power. He said, you're going to have power. That power is going to come after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. Now that word power is the word dynamic, and it's the word that we get our English word dynamite from. It's a word, and I mean when you think about dynamite and what it does, you can't think of a better word than the word power Because there's power in dynamite. There's power in that explosive. God says, I'm going to give you power. You're going to have power as a Christian. Now, that word means, as it's used throughout the scripture, it means strength. Or ability. It also means, and is culminated in this definition, that miraculous assistance from above. It's more than the norm. How many of you have learned that you need more than the norm to be a Christian? Huh? Have you not discovered that you need more than what you've got in you of yourself to do what pleases the Lord? Oh, we might have a willing spirit, but our problem is in this, we have flesh that is weak. And because we have flesh that is weak, we need power. Power that is beyond ourselves, power that is greater than ourselves, power that doesn't originate In ourselves a power that goes beyond the norm. But here our Lord say, Ye shall receive power. The Spirit of God, after the Holy Ghost has come upon you, ye shall receive power. Salvation is a twofold work of God. We see it illustrated in the Old Testament. We're not going to go there, but if you go back and read at some point, Exodus 12. And Exodus 13, you see there's two aspects in salvation. One is blood, and the other is power. In Exodus twelve, you have blood. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sin. Now you can Try to shy away from it or try to skirt around it, but the reality is, had the blood of Jesus Christ not been shed, your sin could not be forgiven. Our forgiveness rests in that fountain, like the old hymn writer said, that fountain filled with blood drawn from Emmanuel's veins. Sinners plunged beneath that flood lose all their guilty stains. There's a cleansing in the blood of Christ. There's cleansing only in the blood of Christ. And so you see that typified in that Passover lamb. Every person, every person behind the bloody doorpost was safe From the judgment of God. It it listen, it didn't matter how old, how young, if they were the firstborn behind that bloody door post, they were safe. And my friend, listen, the only place you'll find safety in eternity is under the precious blood of Jesus Christ. And that happens when you believe on the Lord Jesus for the saving of your soul and you trust him exclusively for your salvation, then you, my friend, can say, I'm washed in the blood of the Lamb. Know this tonight, my friend, that is the first and primary aspect of salvation, but it doesn't end there. God didn't just save them. And then leave them in Egypt. There was a, read on, chapter 13. There was a demonstration of power There was a demonstration of the mighty power of God. We see it, well, we see it first in them leaving Egypt. Pharaoh said, I will not let you go. That was his He had no intention of allowing uh that great mass of workers and laborers and people that were profitable for his uh progress as as a leader and as a country. He had no intentions of letting them go. He said, I will not let you go. When God got through of him he through with them, he said, Go on, get out of here We don't want you around here anymore. You know what happened? Power. God's power was demonstrated again and again and again. You know something? I was thinking of this the other day, that the power of God was demonstrated not just in their leaving, but if you'll let me use this word, their looting. You remember they borrowed things from the Egyptians? I really can't call it borrowing because they had no intention of bringing it back. But they came out of there is it they came out of there very wealthy. And God's power must have been upon them in that occasion because here they are and He's and they're giving, they're willingly giving all of these things. And they leave that land literally loaded with the wealth of Egypt. But then we see the power of God demonstrated Not only in their leaving and their looting, but in the Lord's working. Because when they started out, listen, they were in trouble because they had a Red Sea stretched out in front of them. And they didn't have time to build boats and they didn't have time to uh to start trying to organize a way to ferry everybody across. They had no time for that You know what they had to do? They had to wait on God. And there had to be a demonstration of power. As Moses stood on the banks of the Red Sea, And called on the Lord. The Lord spoke very clearly to him, stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. This wasn't time to wring your hands and walk in circles and try to figure out a plan B. The Egyptians are coming hard and fast. Pharaoh's come to his senses, we could say. And he's thought, what did I do? And he pursues them. But remember, God's working. God's doing something there. What does he do? He causes a fog to come between them. Brings darkness and makes a separation and he holds the enemy back. Know this. Know this. The enemy is on God's leash, not his own. God is still a God of power. He said, I'm gonna hold them fellas back until I'm ready to part the sea. And he held them back and he parted the sea, and when he parted the sea, the Bible says they went across on dry ground. They went dry shod. They didn't slosh in the mud. They didn't have to go knee deep through all the muck and the mire of the bottom of the sea. They went across on dry ground. But that's not the end of the demonstration of the power of God. God's power was further demonstrated once he let the uh enemy get inside of the Red Sea, and then he closed the waters up. And he destroyed the army of Egypt and the enemies of the people of God all in one fell swoop. Now that's power. You can talk about power and powerful things. You might have in your mind in your imagination something that you believe is powerful or something that you deem As a a picture of power to you, but know this there is nothing on earth compared to the mighty power of God. There's nothing. You can't take anything and stand it up and say, Now this is similar. Friend, there is nothing even similar. Everything falls short. And I believe that the greatest demonstration of God's almighty power is not what He did to things on earth, like the Red Sea or the Jordan River, or anything of that nature. I believe the greatest demonstration of God's power is when he emptied out the grave on resurrection morning and demonstrated he had power over life and over death, over hell, over the grave, over the enemy. over everything, listen, and rose King, supreme, lord of all. Now listen, there's power. God is a God of power. Now hear what he said. But ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost is come upon you. I want you to think with me tonight about the power of God. And if you're making notes, you can note this. Notice first the person of power. The person of power. Oh, the blessed person of the Holy Ghost of God. The person who I believe is the most misrepresented member of the Godhead today. If not misrepresented, he's misunderstood. And oftentimes misaligned, the blessed Spirit of God. But ye shall receive power after what? The Holy Ghost Now, folks, I think we've shied away from a Bible truth because we fear. Well, we fear men, we fear foolish ideas. We dare not mention the Holy Ghost lest we get labeled of some and by the way, people, have you found out people label you no matter what you do. You know, I think one of the beauties of getting older is you quit caring what people think. That's been a liberating experience. Who cares? They're gonna think what they think. And you just do what's right and let everything else go by the way. But listen, he's the Spirit of God, the Holy Ghost. Jesus taught us that He would come. And as we think about the person of power, we see that the Spirit of God is that person, the Holy Ghost, as he's called here in Acts 1, verse 8, the Holy Spirit. The Spirit of Truth, the Comforter, and all of those names are the names of this person that I'm speaking of just now. I want you to notice tonight that the Holy Ghost is essential. Remember that word? Remember that word from a few years ago? When they said you're a non-essential worker, or you're essential, we learn that there are some things men label non-essential that are essential. Well, the Holy Ghost is essential. Just what Jesus said in John 16, 7. He said, It's expedient for you that I go away. For if I go not away, who couldn't come? The Comforter, the Spirit of God. He could not come except I go away. He said it's expedient. It means he's necessary. It's absolutely necessary. Now you might be sitting here with the foolish notion, well, I don't preach and I don't teach and I don't do this or that or the other. I'm saved. I don't need the Holy Spirit. Can I say to you, every child of God needs the Holy Spirit. He's essential. In fact, you can't be the kind of Christian God wants you to be without the Spirit of God. You need him. You need him. When Jesus said in John 15, 5, without me, ye can do nothing. Do you know who he's speaking of there in this age? He's speaking of the Spirit of God. Without the Spirit of God, you can do nothing. I believe it was Vance Habner who said, take the Holy Spirit out of the average believer and church. And ninety-five percent of what went on would go on because we've learned to live without him. You know what that is? That's an indictment on our Christianity. If your Christianity can operate without the Holy Ghost, you don't have the right kind. You need him. You need the Spirit of God to enable you to live for the Lord. We're not talking about performance now. We're not talking about, you know, a lot of our Christianity today is Christianized humanism. I was listening to some preaching the other day, and the more I listened to it, it had a ring that just didn't set right. And I listened, I thought, well I can't fault them on what the they're they're using the scripture, so the scripture they're using is right. And I can't fault there's just something and I wasn't being critical. I wouldn't fault finding. That's not generally my nature. But but there was just something didn't sit right. And I was thinking, what's wrong? I I can't put my hand on it. What's wrong? And when it got down to the last part of the message I realize, you know what this is? This is mere humanism. Wearing the clothes of Christianity You can do it. It was positive thinking and positive speaking and positive acting and Oh, you can, you can do it, you know you can do it. Just cheerleading. It was mere cheerleading for Christian. I need something more than cheerleading. I need power from on high. Now the high school we went to, my wife and I went to, and uh we had friends that were on the football team, but it was the most pitiful football team in the county Probably in the state. I don't ever remember winning a game. And uh we were the jets. But but you know, so I got thinking about that. We had we had a jet sitting in the parking lot That they had gotten somewhere. And uh it it was it was our mascot, you know, and that old thing was about falling apart when we went to school. And I thought, what a proper representation of what we do every time we get on the football field. But you know what? Every time we had a game, they would have a pep rally in the in the uh gymnasium And they would get in there and rooting and hollering, you know, try to fire everybody up. And boy, you would think coming out of there we were going to be state champions. Coming out of there. And then we get on the field. And we weren't state champions. I don't know what you call the younger ones in football. I know baseball is little league. But whatever you call it, I mean we couldn't even win that champion, I'm afraid. You know what we lacked? We just didn't have power. We didn't have the power and didn't have that ability to do what those other teams were doing. Now listen, dear Christian. You can try to cheer yourself up and cheer yourself on and you can try to rev yourself up and ramp yourself up, but you're going to need more than just emotional revving up. You need power. And the Holy Ghost of God has come to give you that power. We see the person of the Holy Ghost or the person of power. He's essential. But let me say this: He's also Consequential. Where he is, he works Acts chapter 2, you don't need to read it right now. You know it, I hope, but read it sometime again to refresh your memory and mind and look at the demonstration of power. When the Holy Ghost came on them, everything changed. I like how one person put it. They said the church went from being pitiful to being powerful. Here they are, hiding out in the upper room. For fear, the Bible says for fear of the Jews. That's where Jesus found them. They were hiding out in the upper room for fear of the Jews. And yet, where do you find them after the Holy Ghost came? They're preaching all through Jerusalem that this Jesus that you took and with wicked hands slew. God hath raised him up and demonstrating before you. What was that? That was power. Young Peter wasn't, or Peter wasn't uh there before a young maid cowered down and said, uh, you know, I don't know the man. He was standing and boldly proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ. What changed, beloved? It wasn't his personality. It wasn't his ability. It was the power of God came on him. in reality and made him something. He was not without the Lord. I can still hear Dr. James Stewart. Telling as a young boy preacher getting afraid in front of the stands of of football fans, the the the soccer fans, we'd call it And he would go to these big stadiums and he was 14, 15, I forget, he's a teenager, and he would preach And he said he got struck by fear on many occasion, and he wore those sandwich boards, had a scripture on the front and one on the back, head popped out, and he walked around, and when the game was going, he said, You dare not in Scotland interfere with the game. He said they'd have killed me. But he said while the game was going on, he would walk up and down in front of that mass of people and bear witness with those signs. And then when a a a break or a uh something occurred where he could take time to preach even before and after, he would preach the word of God. And he said he remembered on one occasion being extremely afraid there was a big crowd of people in that stadium and And he said, I knelt down in between that sandwich board. Nobody could see me. I got down in there and he said I started to pray. And he said, it wasn't long till God met me there. And great power came upon me. And you know what he said? I was able to stand and boldly proclaim the name of Jesus Christ. I'm talking about power, church. There's power in the person of the Holy Ghost. Yes, He's essential, and He's also consequential. He will not leave you without help. His enablement will be enough. His ability and strength will be your portion when you have his power. You cannot separate the power of God from the person of the Holy Spirit. And I think this is where we fail. We want the power without the person. Can I say this? You can't have either or. The person brings the power. The person is the power. So we see the person of the Holy Ghost. But quickly, could you note number two, the potential of power? The potential of power. Look what it says. But ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you. Come upon you. Friend, do you realize that you Have in the person of the Holy Spirit the power of God. You have the person, and the person is the power. And note the potential. You know, the reality is, I think we live like paupers when we ought to live like princes. There's power. There's power in the Lord. There's a command here in the Word of God that says Be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be what? Filled with the Spirit. Filled with the Spirit Friend, listen. It is a command of God, and the potential exists for every believer to be filled with the Spirit of God. Every person who's saved can be. You know what revival is? Revival is simply this: every Christian being filled with the Spirit of God. The Holy Spirit of God have in full control. By the way, that's what that word means. It means to control. To be under the influence of. That's why it says, be not drunk with wine. I sort of feel like Billy Sunday. I can't hardly walk by it without kicking it. So if you'll let me kick it just a minute, if it's a sin to be drunk with wine, and I say that with confidence, because it is a sin, It's a y you violate hundreds of scriptures when you use alcohol. The Word of God condemns it solely and completely and totally My friend, you can say what you want to say and think what you want to think, but the precious word of God is our final authority. And there's no need no need to try to twist it. Look at what it's done. Look at what it continues to do. Damn, destroy, devastate individuals, families, homes, communities. In fact, if you were to take that demon liquor out of this community, there would be a transformation from the regular house right down to the prison house. Could probably uh bring down that the the jail size to a far, far, much smaller place if alcohol were removed. It's such a damning and destroying thing, and it's straight out of the piss of hell Be not drunk with wine where it is excess, but be filled. Be filled. Be filled with the Spirit. It's a command of God. It's a sin not to be full of the Spirit of God. Not only do I see a command here, but I need to make something clear. Now, friend, if we would use Bible language, perhaps we would not confuse Bible doctrine. In Acts chapter 1, the Bible says you'll be baptized with the Holy Ghost, not many days hence. Acts chapter 1, verse 5, they were going to be baptized. Now, the Bible says there's one baptism. There's one baptism. Can I say this? There are many, many, many feelings. One baptism, many feelings. Your place that baptism is that supernatural work of God where you're placed in Christ and Christ is placed in you. The Spirit of God comes to dwell inside of you. 1 Corinthians is it 10 that teaches us that if you don't have the Holy Spirit, you're none of his. And so there's no receiving Christ in piecemeal. How many of you are parents? Do you have children? How many of you have children you acknowledge you admit I got this is mine? Okay? There's a few reluctant ones there I see. Miss Jessica, you're awful slow. But the reality is, friend, you receive that person in whole. Is that true? When that child was born, you didn't get down payments or installments. You received the whole child And when you get saved, you receive all that you're going to receive in the Spirit of God. He comes to live inside of you. There's no need or no Bible or no reason to be praying for more of the Holy Spirit. You have all the Holy Spirit you're ever going to get. Here's the big question. This is the big question. Does he have all of you? Right. Does he have all of me? Searching, isn't it? There was complaint in England over the choice of evangelist. They said he's uneducated, his speech is Awful offensive to an Englishman. And on and on and on. And one man stood and even said Moody, Moody, Moody, talking about D. L. Moody. Does he have a monopoly on the Holy Spirit? And a wise man stood and said, no, but the Holy Spirit has a monopoly on him. Now friend, understand something. The moment you got saved, you got the Spirit of God living inside of you. He came to dwell. He lives there now. He'll never leave. David prayed a prayer, you've got no business praying. Take not thy Holy Spirit from me. David lived in a different dispensation of time. The Spirit of God would come and go, and especially came upon those and equipped them for service. Remember King Saul? He had the Spirit of God on him. And then God took it and sent an evil spirit. And he was no longer fit for man nor beast. David said, Don't do that to me, don't take the Holy Spirit from me, but living on this side of the cross and the resurrection. And Pentecost, you can't pray that prayer because the comforter comes to abide forever, is what Jesus said. He'll never take him away from you. One baptism, many fillings. Acts chapter 2, they were all filled with the Holy Ghost. And they began to speak in other languages as God gave them utterance. Acts chapter 4. They've just been through a crises and they've been through a difficulty, and they gather with the church and they pray. And what happens? They're all filled with the Holy Ghost again. Read on. Chapter 5, Chapter 6, Chapter 7, Chapter 8. James Stewart said it like this. He said they had used up their spending money and had to go to the Bank of Heaven to implore for more. They needed more. Listen, your place in Christ is placed in you. The Spirit of God indwells you at the moment of your salvation. You don't need to pray for the Holy Ghost, but you do need to stay full of the Holy Ghost. It's necessary that you and I be filled. It may be, it may be, my friend, that you need to be sealed afresh. I believe there's biblical reference to this, but I believe there's an initial feeling, and then there are subsequent feelings. There's an initial feeling. And usually it's a crises or a crossroads that you come to spiritually. And you surrender your life to the Lord. And when you surrender your life to the Lord, the Spirit of God comes in mighty power and takes control. You've been filled with the Spirit of God in that fashion You young people, you'll never amount to anything for God unless you're full of the Holy Ghost. You'll never live for the Lord like you can't, like you want to, like God put a desire in you to live without being filled with the Holy Spirit. I believe it's as real as being saved by God's grace. It's a real work of God. I'm not talking about another work of grace. I like what one fellow said. If grace just worked once, we'd all be in trouble. Man, I need God to work again and again and again. I need to be filled and be full of the Spirit of God. Be filled and stay full. The only way you stay full is you get filled again. And again and again. So we see they were filled with the Spirit of God. That's the potential. Are you full? Are you filled with the Spirit of God? Are you living under his control? The danger, I think, of being a mature Christian is the danger of leaning on the arm of flesh. We've learned to live, we've learned to walk, we've learned to speak, we've learned to do, and yet we don't understand that we cannot do it without Him. And we need his power. I listen, it it doesn't matter what you do as far as occupation or otherwise, or even service to the Lord. I'm not even talking about that. I'm talking about just being the kind of Christian You and I are supposed to be, we've got to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Now you can take the time and read Ephesians 5, and it gives you those evidences of being full. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. You know what? That's an evidence of joy, the fullness of joy. The moment your joy meter starts running low, you need to make sure you're full of the Holy Ghost I remember as a little boy, I wasn't even converted, but I can still remember the illustration. My pastor would make his rounds through the Sunday school He was just watchful of everything and he was just wandering to a class and as a little boy. I the reason I remembered he'd come over, and I must have had hair sticking up on the back of my head. And he put he patted my hair down, and my tie was probably hanging over my shoulder, and he pulled my little tie around, he patted me on the head. He said, Let me tell you boys something. It was a little boys class, it was all boys. He said, let me tell you something. He said, you young men, you need to get saved. And when you get saved, you need to let the Lord control your life. And he said, you know, there'll be great joy when the Lord's living inside of you and when he's in control. He said, He'll be like a little bird just singing its little heart out. He said, when the bird stops singing Find out where you're sinning. He turned and walked off. I've never forgot it I was seven years old. I was in that class, seven-year-old. And it's just stuck in my mind. Simple illustration, but it's a reality. When when my when my joy is gone, and when my song is gone, and when when my heart is silent as far as praises to the Lord. You better be looking and seeing what it is that has stopped you from being full of the Holy Ghost and be filled with the Spirit of God. Now, let me close with this quickly: the purpose of power. Back in our text in Acts chapter number one, but ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me. I want you to notice two things here. Number one, the representation. Jesus said, Ye shall be witnesses unto me. Unto me. The power of God enables me to represent Him well You're witnesses unto him. The Bible uses this term. It calls us ambassadors. We're ambassadors. What's an ambassador do? An ambassador represents another person or another country. I know I've told you, but I I really enjoyed uh I I forget under whose presidency he was, but he was the ambassador from the United States to Canada and had an opportunity to meet him He was from uh upstate South Carolina. And I remember hearing him on the on the television, I thought, you know, that guy's cla he's got to be from the Carolinas. He's not West North Carolina He doesn't have that pure form of English that we held to there. But he was from the Carolinas, and I noted that anyway, my wife had an opportunity to go over to the university. of New Brunswick and meet in a open forum he had there. And I went up to him afterwards. I said, Sir, I I know you you you're from the Carolinas, but from where? And he said, I know you're from the Carolinas too. And he said, You're from western North Carolina. I said, you better believe it. And I told him where. And he said, well, I'm from. And he told me he told me where he was from But I watched him among those students. Man, they were grilling him. It was a controversial thing. I don't know what was going on, but it was he he was hated by the uh by by about everybody that was in that crowd save a handful of us. And they were just just putting it to him, but he held his composure and he answered so so tactfully and and and he just he made me proud that he represented my country. And I said, that man's a good ambassador. Now, church, don't miss it. You're an ambassador for another country. You 're heaven's ambassador living on this earth. And the way you carry yourself and the words you speak and the life you live My friend, it's making someone think something about the Lord Jesus. I'm saying tonight you can't represent him well. without the power of the Holy Ghost. If you don't have God's power on your life, your tongue will get away from you and won't represent Jesus right. Your actions will be such, or your reactions will be such, that it will not represent Jesus well. Friend, you and I need the Holy Ghost to help us, enable us to be able to represent the Lord Jesus well. You're witnesses, he said unto me. Not only a representation, but I want you to see a presentation. He said, Ye are witnesses. Witnesses. All that's included with being a witness, whether it's boldness or compassion or burden or discernment, like we talked about on Wednesday night. Some have compassion, others say with fear. How do I know to handle someone in the proper way? All of that takes the Spirit of God. All of it takes the Spirit of God. Now I think we need to be trained, and my heart's exercised on this, and I'm going to be doing some of that. I dare not lay a challenge without giving instruction. Someone said there's no use to run a freight train down a gravel road. You need to lay some tracks. But understand this that all of the teaching and all of the learning about Soul winning and pointing people to Jesus can never take the place of the Holy Ghost. The Holy Ghost is the best teacher and the best motivator and the greatest enabler of men and women to be able to take the gospel and give it to some lost soul. You say, but I don't know if I can witness. I don't have a lot of scripture memorized. Well, memorize scripture, get to it. But know this my friend, don't sit around and wait. Let the Spirit of God fire your heart up. He'll give you the words to say. And if you can't think of anything else, tell them what the Lord has done for you. Tell them what great things he's done in your heart. You may not be able to answer all their questions or fight against all their arguments, and that's not what you're there for anyway. You're there to present Jesus Christ, crucified, buried, risen again, and mighty to save. Tell them about him. Tell them about him. And that's what the Holy Ghost does. He enables us. You know what? He said he'll testify me. Just what Jesus said he would do. He'll testify me. He'll point men to me. He'll talk about me. He'll turn your attention on me. He's all about me. That's the ministry work of the Holy Spirit. So church, please. Understand this, the purpose, the power is for representation and the presentation of the gospel. And my friend, it takes God's power to accomplish his purpose. He's left you here for a purpose. Our purpose is to bring glory to God. And what brings glory to God? Pointing men to Jesus. Pointing them to Him. Your salt, your light, you're an ambassador. You work in that office of reconciliation, you're a reconciler. And listen, oh, that takes God. It takes the Holy Spirit of God. I'm saying, my friend, and pleading with my brothers and sisters tonight, look to Him for power. Lean on Him for power. Believe the Word of God. Let Him fill your heart to the full. And the only reason we're not full. Is because something else is there that's keeping us from being filled. And whatever that is, it's sin. I'll tell you something. I struggled along, preached a few years, had no power and and thought many times. There's gotta be more than this I was in a camp meeting out in Cherokee, North Carolina on the reservation. My pastor Emeritus, who's now in heaven, he was the moderator for that meeting for all the Baptist churches on the reservation. His mother had been uh Cherokee and and they loved him there and he preached there often and he would lead that meeting. He preached that night. I'll never forget it. He preached that night on being filled with the Spirit of God. I knew in my heart why I wasn't full. I knew what was keep and God was dealing with me. Say what was it? Not going to tell you. I'm not going to tell you because number one, God needs to deal with you about you. God's dealings are personal. And I knew in my heart, this is why you're not full. I remember driving home, we had to you had to cross the mountain, they call it Soko Mountain. And you cross the mountain, come up over the parkway, and then back down the other side into on the other side of the mountain and off the reservation. I remember coming up the mountain and I got near the top. Man, I just couldn't take it. I knew what it was. I knew what was keeping me from being filled with the Spirit of God. God is making it so plain and painfully plain. I pulled over at the top of the mountain. There's a little pull-off there. And I went around the side and I got down the ditch on my knees and I said, God, I give it up. I don't want it anymore. I want you more than I want that. God feel me. I'm going to tell you something. I didn't hear voices or see visions. But things changed in my life. Things changed in my life, changed in the ministry. Everything started to change. There was a difference. You know what the difference was? I was full. And I've had to be filled again and again and again and again, just like you. And I'm saying tonight, if you're not full, why? What? Where does what's God putting his finger on saying, here's why you're not full? Here's what you need to confess and get out of your life Here's what you need. And I'll tell you something. It may be a very practical thing that God says, throw it away. And it may be a very personal thing where God says, give it up But whatever it is, it's going to require surrender on your part, or you can just go on as you've been. You say, well, I'm content. Well, I pray you won't be. I pray God will stir your heart to see that you can be full of the Holy Ghost. By the way, don't fear what the foolish teachings of this hour say. Men are full of the Holy Ghost, don't act like fools. They act like Jesus. They represent Him. They demonstrate His likeness. Oh, may God help us to be full. Brother, sister, are you full? Are you filled with the Spirit of God? Are you living under his control or perhaps God's saying, hey, son, daughter, put this down? Get this out. Confess. Get it clean. Surrender it. Surrender it. Whatever it is that's keeping you from being filled. Lay it before God on this altar tonight and leave here full of the Holy Ghost. But ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And you shall be witnesses unto me. Oh, may God search us and help us. Would you bow your head with me this evening? Lydia, if you'll come, dear, and begin to play just softly. Just begin to play