Minded just how good God is. It's awful easy in the conflict to lose sight of the reality that God is good. Uh things may not be good and circumstances may not be good, and you might not be good, but God's good. And we need that reminder every once in a while. And uh if we're going to sing about anything, let's sing about the goodness of God. He's been, as Dr. Etchens often says, he's been better to me than I deserve. And boy, ain't that true. Thank you for that. Pray for Mark and Julia as they drive back to Connecticut. I think they're going to try to do that tonight. So uh you pray for them. That's five hours, roughly. And uh that's heading north. So you pray for their safety and ask the Lord to watch over them and and keep them as they travel. It's been good to have Joe and Sarah and Jack here and they'll be traveling in the morning and uh taking my mother-in-law with them. So you pray for them. That the Lord to keep them safe as they travel back to Ohio and ask the Lord to just encourage them and continue to use them. Pray for Joas as he uh labors there with his father in Atwater. And the Lord's given many open doors there to be a witness, and not just there in Atwater, but other communities. And so pray God will continue to help them, would you? It's been good to be in God's house already today. And uh I needed that reminder tonight that God is good. And uh that's an unchanging fact. Settled forever. Amen. And we praise his name for that. So you pray for Joe as he preaches God's word. Let's hear him gladly. Amen. It's good to be in the house of the Lord for sure. I like that song them kids sang. The goodness of the Lord. That's good. That is good. You know, I think I thank the preacher again for an opportunity to preach. And uh you know, he said it this morning at the close of the service that they were glad to see Jack and Sarah. And then he did mention me, but I you know, I think There's a couple people I think are happy to see me here, but I you know I know I know the truth and you know and I'm fine with that It's happened even at our church. I I'm I get snubbed at our church. They walk right past me and right past Sarah, right to Jack, you know, and that's okay. That's fine. Uh but God is so good to us. Go to the book of Acts if you would tonight. I've been battling this afternoon with two different passages here, but I think we're going to be in Acts chapter number four. And uh Pray the Lord will be in this. You know, I don't know about anybody else, but I love the book of Acts. And uh the book of Acts is the Acts of the Apostles. It's full of action. And uh I like action movies and I like um the old westerns and things like that, and I don't like a slow, dry, dead movie. I like some action. And uh, you know, there's there's some westerns that I used to watch when we were kids and I s me and dad was ah that one's too slow moving. We need one with a little more action in it. But the book of Acts is full of action And uh, you know, as I thought about this, as um young people were singing that about the goodness of God, you know, the apostles, the early church They were familiar with the goodness of God and the grace of God in the hardest times. And I think about that as I was praying about this message, and the Lord laid this on my heart. about power from powerful prayer. And we're going to look at the tail end of Acts chapter number 4. Acts chapter number 4 and verse number 23, we'll begin reading there. It says, And being let go, they went to their own company and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said unto them. And when they had heard that, they lift up their voice to God with one accord and said , Lord, thou art God, which hath made heaven and earth and the sea, and all that is in them. All that in them is Excuse me. Verse twenty five Who by the mouth of thy servant David hath said, Why did the heathen rage and the people imagine vain things? The kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers were against were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ, for of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed both Herod and Ponus Pilate With the Gentiles and the people of Israel were gathered together, for to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done. And now, Lord, behold their threatenings, and grant unto thy servants that with all boldness they may speak thy word. By stretching forth thine hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may be done. By the name of thy holy child Jesus. Verse thirty one And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness. And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul. Neither said any of them that aught of the things which he possessed was his own, but they had all things common And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. And may the Lord add a blessing. As you back up in the chapter, we won't read the entire chapter, but if you realize It started back in chapter three after Peter and John went into the temple to pray, and the man begging for alms was there and he was healed. And this caused a stir amongst the religious people. And they were brought in and they were then arrested there in verse chapter one of verse 4, chapter 1 and 2 there. And as you look at that, I see the problem it's it's discovered, it's universal here the problem, and we still have the same problem today. The problem is r lost religion in this day. We see the same problem there And uh notice then secondly as we read go through chapter four, the preaching disturbed them. And that same thing happens today. The preaching still disturbs the lost religious world and the lost world. And then unfortunately a lot of backslidden Christians they get disturbed by preaching. It said there in verse two that they were grieved. Amen. And uh we as they went on, is uh we see that the presence of God was displayed by how they preached and they had uh the the power of the Holy Spirit upon them in verse number eight And as we see that the proof was undeniable, God was definitely working amongst them in the fact that the man was healed. And they said, We can't deny what has been done here. Amen. But then they they take them in and they threaten them and they say, you know, don't go out and preach in the name of Jesus anymore. Don't heal anymore. Don't do anything else in the name of the Lord. But you know, the power of God can't be stopped. And praise God for that. They let them loose, and here we it brings us to where we're at in this passage, and I I'm so grateful for the fact that they're preaching, they're praising, and the praying goes unhindered after they're released from this. You know, a lot of times I think we would give up in this situation, but they didn't. And praise God for it. And as we come to the text where we're at, I want to look at powerful prayer that was had here and how we can get a little bit of that. If the Lord be our helper, I hope this will be a blessing to you as it was to me. Let's go ahead and ask the Lord for help this evening. Our Heavenly Father I come to you this evening and I need your help and your touch. Lord, I pray that you'll once again speak through me. I pray, Lord, that you'll fill me with the Spirit, empty me in myself. Lord, I need your power and your touch upon this message And I pray, Lord, as there's many here that have different issues, some are grieving and some are battling with different things, and maybe someone's listening that's lost God, I pray that you would meet the needs of each person here tonight. And God, I pray for that lost one that's listening in or here tonight, Lord, I pray they realize they need to be saved. Quit playing games with you and just turn it over and get saved before it's too late. Same for the Christians. I pray that they would get things straight before it's too late. We love you. We thank you for all you do. Have your will and your way in the service. In Jesus' matchless name we pray. Amen. As I looked here at this text and I thought about as you know the situation where the apostles are in, um, praise God for the freedom we still have in America. I I mean I haven't had this encounter with w to me, I mean I've had a couple meetings with some deacons that I thought were gonna go this way. At a at church we had I sat down with a deacon board once and I thought that I was gonna have some of these encounters here. You know, you think about Um I w I'll I'll keep my deacon comments to myself. I don't I don't want to get stoned at this church. But uh I think about this, you know, the religious people sometimes are the hardest people to deal with. The church people, how sad that is. But I see this. These people were lost, the lost religion here, and they were grieved by the preaching of the Word of God. And it still happens today. You know, but I'm so glad for the fact that you know in this text and we can back up there and you look at it, some people were grieved and disturbed by the preaching, but the Bible then s came to say that five thousand men Come to know Christ out of this whole ordeal. I'd say it was worth the trouble for them men right there. I think Peter and John realize that after it was all said and done. They say, hey, it was worth it all. Amen I think about that hymn that sung, uh, It Will Be Worth It All When We See Jesus. Amen. I think about that sometimes when we're down in the dumps. And I I was I was just praying this afternoon, I thought about oh Lord I pr uh when we get to heaven and we can see I don't know if this will happen or not, but I would like for it to be the case, maybe not, we would probably won't even care about it anymore, we'll just be so focused on the Lord Jesus. But If it'd be nice to see all the people that we were able to help somehow along the way and see how the fruit of our labor come to fruition, that I I believe that would be a blessing. But even if that doesn't happen, just to be in heaven, it'll be worth it all, amen. When we see Jesus. That's what it's all about. And I think about this, these men were looking for their Savior. And I I love the fact that uh They were they were in a uh a tough place, they were being uh not treated very kindly. They weren't held up in a nice uh air conditioned room and and given soda pops and crackers and all this. Uh they were not treated very kindly when they were here held overnight. But they were threatened and they were mistreated, and as they're let loose they go into the the the church and they tell all the people everything that had happened And I love the fact that when they reported this, it wasn't a woe is me report. But as they they said this, it stirred them to just lift up their voice in prayer. And I think about sometimes we're very quick to complain or give our troubles to one another when really what we need to do is just say, Why don't you come with me and let's pray about this? Brother, sister, I just need we need to pray for this matter. I I encourage the church, we've already mentioned it several times, be praying for the Peters family and be praying for God's grace in this time. And that's what they need. But that's what our responsibility as a church family is to gather rally around them and pray. Just in this picture, these folks rallied around these men that have just been threatened and the the conditions and and things that are going on And and these weren't idle threats either. I mean, th this is not long after they've already crucified the Lord, right? And we can see that that there there's a lot of persecution happening right here in this in the very moments of all around this prayer. But yet they they said we're not going to worry about all that, we're just going to take it to God. And that's why we need to we need to take our problems. And that's why I look at this powerful prayer meeting I noticed the first thing that they did in their prayer is they prayed to a sovereign Lord. They said, it starts off there in verse 24, they lifted up their voice to God, and then you can see it right there. They just said, Lord, thou art God. You know, that phrase sums up so much right there. I I don't know about anybody else, but there's been times when I've prayed and I've just said, Lord, you know. Amen. Anyone else ever been in that position where you could you didn't even have the words, you had no idea how to even express what was really on your heart, you're so broken or or worn down with whatever it might be, and you just say, God, you know. Lord you're God. And I don't understand all this, but you do. Amen. And as I think about how God these folks look up here and they say, Lord, thou art God. And then they go on bragging about him, just like we were doing here tonight. He says, You made heaven and earth I think that's important to remember with uh the fact that he's sovereign, meaning he's supreme, he's all powerful. Amen. He is the God that created the only one that there is. Amen. There's none else. There's no other God like there's nothing like him. He's the only God there is. He's the only A one that ever created anything, he's the only one that created man, he's the only one that died for that sinful man. Amen. And we need to realize that as as they they started praying, they said, Wow, Lord, thou art God which hath made heaven. And earth and the sea and all that in them is. You know, I don't know about anybody else, but this sometimes is a problem with me and it's probably a problem with other people, is when we get to praying, it helps to remember who we're praying to. I'm not praying and asking Brother Bishop for something. Brother Bishop would help me all he could, I know that, but I'm not praying to Brother Bishop to help me with my physical needs or my broken heart. He pray with me. But see the one I gotta pray to is the one that can actually do something about it, right? We're told to cast our care upon him. Why? 'Cause he careth for us, but also he's the only one that can do anything about it. Because he is God. Amen. I think about this that that he he says thou art God which hath made heaven and earth and the sea and all that in them is It says, God, you're the one that has done everything that there is around us. You have the power to do exactly what we need, and you're the only one that has that power. I think about how many times the key to prayer is faith, but not just faith in the in in praying, but faith in who we're praying to. Remember that my prayers aren't just bouncing off the ceiling and coming right back down. Amen. There's people out there that are praying to all kinds of different funny things, and their prayers are doing that. They're just bouncing off of the walls, bouncing off off of stones and everything else But if we're praying to the Lord God Almighty, you're praying to the one that hears and answers prayer. Amen. I'm so glad Jeremiah 33. 3, that's God's 911 Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great things which thou knowest not. He's going to answer and show you. What a blessing that is. But these people it it helps sometime. If you're having trouble in your prayer life, maybe just start with praying and a and saying, Lord, thou art God. Which hath made. And just start talking about all that God has done. Amen. When you start thinking about God, who in the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. And nobody helped him. Amen. Amen. God sat there upon his throne or however it was, and he said, Let there be light. And there was light. Amen. He said, Oh, I'm gonna divide the waters and I'm gonna do this. And then he said, I'm gonna reach down here in the dirt. And I'm going to form man out of the dirt that he just created, amen? And breathe the breath of life into that man. He didn't do that for any other creature. Amen. That's why God so loved the world, because it's the only the mankind is the only thing that he put the breath of life, the spirit of of the soul into. Amen But as you think about that, God did that. No one else helped him. I I I I've talked about this that that point right there that uh they that I heard a article or uh thing about uh the scientist they said they wanted to tell a preacher something, they said, you know Evolution and all this stuff is is is true, which it's not, but anyways, they said, Preacher, what we've discovered we can create human life in a laboratory. So we don't need God. And the preacher said, Alright, I I'll entertain this for a moment. Why don't you show me what you got going on here? So they went into this laboratory and they're looking at all this stuff and the scientists said, So we start with all the we have all this stuff here, these potions and things like that. And then he says we get start with a little bit of dirt here. And the the preacher says, Stop right there. Get your own dirt. Make dirt. Amen. Amen. God made the dirt. And this guy says, Oh, I can make man, but I gotta have something God made still. Amen. And then they can't do it. God made the dirt that we're made out of. Amen. And when you're praying, that's who we're praying to. An all-powerful God. That's helpful to remember that. Amen. I think about Hebrews chapter eleven and verse six, tells us, but without faith it is impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him I think about how in order to have a successful, powerful prayer life or have a meeting with God, we've got to believe that He is, and that He's able to take care of the things we need. Amen. I think about how we won't look there for time's sake, but in Mark chapter twenty-two, or eleven, and verse twenty-two, and then the parallel passage in Matthew twenty-one. Matthew 21, verse 22 says, In all things whatsoever ye ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive. You know, the thing that's missing in a lot of our prayer lives, mine included, is the faith that God will and is able to answer that prayer. I I may maybe I'm the only one that this that is this carnal and I'm just telling on myself, if that's the case, just pray for me. But I've caught myself before in prayer and praying and in the back of my mind thinking it's not going to happen. I've caught myself do that. And then I've done like the man in the Bible that says, Lord, I believe, but Lord help my unbelief. Right? Because some things some things seem so far from our our our imagination of it happening, but we've got to remember we're praying to the God that created everything. It's not out of his realm of capability. It may be out of your imagination to think it's possible, but we got to believe that God is able to do it. He said if you could if you have the faith the size of a mustard seed, you say that mutton that mountain to be removed It 'll be. But you gotta have that faith. Many times we don't have the faith in behind the prayer. And we're just muttering idle words. Listen, I maybe I'm the only one that battles with that, but we've got to remember who we're praying to and believe that He is able to do that. Amen. I think about how many times we we come to God and we we pray and we pray But then do are we really believing that he'll answer that prayer? May we get a little bit more faith behind us to believe who we're praying to, amen? I know that as we looked at this text, they knew the opposition, and it says it here in their prayer, they say it several times. Who the opposition is not against them personally. The opposition was against God. And we've got to remember that in our Christian life. Hey, it's still against God The opposition is still against God. As you read it there in this text, he said there uh in verse twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven that uh in verse twenty uh six The kings of the earth stood up and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ. For a truth against my holy child Jesus. Hey, they were against God And he says, listen, they're still against God. These folks are saying this is happening because they're against you and they're against what you have told us to do. So we're praying to you to take care of this situation because they're against you anyway. And we've got to remember that as a Christian, if you're trying to serve the Lord, And the devil's on your heels. He's on your heels because he's against God. Amen. We've got to remember that. The opposition is against God. We need to take it to him. And the reason it is is because what were they doing? They're preaching in the name of Jesus. Acts 4 12, they just said, Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Amen. The devil don't like that. And the devil doesn't like it when you go tell other people that. And when it's just said five thousand men believed upon all that, the devil's not happy. Amen. And I think it's important to realize when we're doing the Great Commission, when we're going into all the world and preaching the gospel to every creature, the devil's not going to like that. And that's what we've got to remember, we've got to pray for the power to do these things. Because after all, the devil's against all of all the things of God. But we can remember Romans 8 and verse 31 that if God be for us, who can be against us? Amen. I think these these this early church, they looked at this and they realized that. As they just said back a few uh in chapter uh four and verse nineteen, they answered the the s the s the religious people there. They said, Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye. For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. They said, Listen, we know that we're on the side of right here, and we cannot go against God. And that's the way we ought to look at life. If we're on the side of right, if you're lined up with this book and you're doing it God's way, stick with the book. Stick with God. Amen. And pray and say, God, I I may not understand what's going on around me right now. I may not see the whole picture here, but God, I'm trying to do the best I can to follow your word. It's in your hands. And leave it there. Amen. And that's what these this early church was doing. They said, We we're we're not able to do anything with this, but we're going to take it to God. And they they did. So they prayed to a sovereign God. But then we see in verse twenty nine, they prayed as servants. Verse twenty-nine they said, And Lord, and now Lord, behold their threatenings and grant unto thy servants. That with all boldness they may speak thy word. You know, the humility in prayer helps a significant amount. I don't know, I've heard people maybe I'm no I maybe I've just been in about a bunch of bad churches. I don't know. I've heard people stand up in prayer and brag about themselves. Anyone else ever been like somewhere like that? And you're thinking, what in the world? Bragg on God, not yourself, amen. In me that is in my flesh dwelleth no good thing. The only good thing in Joe Teague is the Lord Jesus Christ, amen. And I thank God for that. And we need to look at ourselves as just we're lowly servants. And you know, I think about this as servants. They said we're they're praying to God, and they said, We are your servants. Servants are at the beck and call of their master. They're there to do whatever, whenever, however, for their master. That's what a servant does. And the thing about this is they looked at themselves, that's what they said they were. They said, We are your servants, God, and we want to serve you to the best of our ability. We want the boldness to be able to do it. Why? Because things are tough And if you're if you're if you're familiar with the world today, things are tough. It's not an easy road for a Christian in this world But with God all things are possible. Amen. And I think I think the Lord for the fact that we can we need to look at ourselves as servants. And you know, the funny thing, as I as I study this and I thought about this A master of the house has to worry about taking care of everything, finances, and things like that. I just become a dad, so now I you worry more about things like that, right? You worry about the money to take care of the family and the things like that. We shouldn't worry about it. Obviously, I'm preaching about prayer and talking about worrying at the same time. But I need this message. Amen. I'm preaching to myself. But listen, you know what I'm talking about. We're concerned about that. We realize it's my responsibility, right? You've heard of the saying you're the breadwinner in the family or something like that, right? The master of the house is the one that takes care of that. He's the one that has the funds to supply the need to take care of the things. The servants are just there doing work. You know, uh the servants, their their their lodgings provided because they're working for the master. Their food and everything is provided because they're working for the master that they're under. And I think about that for the Lord. We are his servants. All that's provided for us Because we're serving him. I think about that when he he tells the in I believe it's in the book of Matthew, he says Think not. Don't worry about your raiment and your food and what you're going to wear and what and then the things like that. Why? He says Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all this, all the other issues are taken care of. Amen. What's he saying? Be a servant. Humble yourself under the Master. Come into the Master's house. Amen. And what a blessing that is. We can look in you can read in Romans chapter six and see about being a servant in Ephesians chapter six. We don't have time to be there, but We're to be a servant, amen. The Lord Jesus Christ in Philippians said he took upon himself the form of a servant. That's humility. Amen. And we see that in their prayer here. They were humble and they were praying as servants. Then they also prayed, and their prayer wasn't for Money. They weren't praying, Lord, give us a new bass boat. Right? They didn't pray that. They didn't pray, Lord, give me a new Corvette. They said, pray, they said in verse 29, grant unto thy servants that with all boldness they may speak thy word. They prayed to speak God's word. Their prayer wasn't for themselves. It wasn't even that they didn't get beat. It wasn't that they didn't die for the Lord. You notice that? That stood out to me when I studied this a while back and I was looking at it. They were just coming from a a a courtroom session type thing where they were being threatened. And they were under this I mean the impression that if if they continue to preach in the name of the Lord, bad physical things were going to happen to them. As you read the book of Acts, it happened. Read history books, and you'll see the men and women that died for the faith. Listen, but they didn't pray that that wouldn't happen. They just prayed for boldness to speak the word of God. We need that. We need that in this world today. We need boldness to speak the word. And this isn't just for preachers. We need preachers with backbone to stand up and say what thus saith the Lord and don't matter who it hair lips. But Christians, we need the backbone to take a handful of gospel tracts And go out into our mission field wherever we go every day of the week and witness to people. We need that boldness. Some people you may not have an issue with it, they may not b you may not have any trouble. Talking to people, and you may not have any trouble witnessing, praise God for it, but there's probably other people in here that would say, I really have a hard time with that. Amen? Because why? It's it's difficult sometimes. I struggle with that sometimes myself. I I struggle with that. I I've got a pocket full of tracks. I know I want to witness to people. I want to give them out. But listen, whatever the f I don't know why w they're not going to persecute me, they're not going to crucify me, but there's some sort of still fear. That that devil gets in there and says, they're they're gonna mock at you, they're gonna whatever it might be, and the devil speaks in your ear and tries to get you to not witness. We need to pray for boldness, amen, to speak His word. Wherever we go to proclaim the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen. We need that. We need to pray for that power, that boldness. And I see here as they prayed, they prayed to a sovereign God, they prayed as servants, and they prayed to speak his word, and we notice the outcome. As they prayed this , This is parenthetical. This isn't really I I was going to cover this and we don't have a lot of time, but they prayed for boldness to speak the word first. They did pray for other gifts, but those were secondary. You know, I noticed there's a hang up and a lot of different people today that wanna they wanna they wanna be all in the the charismatic thing and about the gifts and the signs and all this different stuff. But yet they don't have any they don't want to speak the Word of God, nor they even read the Word of God. Listen, the first concern for these this early church was to speak the Word of God before they had any other anything else The sign gifts and things were secondary to the Word of God. But as they prayed this way, notice the outcome. We see the presence of God. I think about this. When we get serious with God praying, praying to a sovereign God, praying as servants, and praying to speak his word, the presence of God shows up. Amen. I think about that if you're in that secret place of prayer, we were talking about the presence of God this morning a little bit. And uh Brother John was talking this morning about Psalm 16, 11, amen. There's uh there's fill fullness of joy In the presence of God. Amen. What a blessing that is when you're in that secret pray place praying and then out of nowhere. That w that that rush of mighty w rushing wind comes in there and just you get that breeze from another world coming in. Amen. What a blessing that is when that happens. And I think about this, that's what happened here. Because the presence of God showed up. In verse 31, it says, And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together. Amen. What a blessing to know that. When God, and I love this, when God moves, He moves. Amen. And I put in my Bible in the margin: prayer moves things. Amen. When you're praying to God, prayer moves things. And I think about this so many times we we we we get uh I don't know. We struggle in our prayer life and things like that. And I wonder if we're not actually praying. I we struggle with actually praying. I heard a preacher talking about this uh one time. He said uh when he was in Bible college they were challenged by their preacher, one of the uh uh professors to write down in a journal every time they prayed how long they prayed for. And this man said Thought, oh, I pray a lot. He said, the guys, the professor said, write it down in a journal, and at the end of the week, add it up and see how much time you spent praying this week. And uh maybe you want to do this this week, it'll be convicting to you. It was convicting to me when I tried it. But I think about it, he said, man, I went out I pray I pray a long time, so he said I Prayed that day, I was praying for this and I wrote down the time, looked at the clock, and I'm praying. He said, Man, I'm praying. I prayed over every person I knew. I prayed over every church I could think of, every preacher I could think of He said, I prayed and prayed and prayed. He said, man, I really felt like I got into another world. He said, I got done praying. I looked up and it had been five minutes. You know, I think about this, and that's that's a funny joke. He's probably being a little bit dramatic there, but I think about that. We do that. We pray and we think we're really praying, and it's only been 30 seconds. I think about that old hymn, Sweet Hour of Prayer I mean, how many, when is the last time? Think to yourself, don't raise any hands or do anything. When's the last time we spent an hour in prayer? And I'm stepping on my own toes right now. An hour in prayer, sixty minutes praying to God. Amen. That song, sweet hour of prayer, sweet hour of prayer. We sing it. But how many times when was the last time, if ever, did you spend an hour in prayer? We wonder why we don't feel the presence and the move of God, because we're praying in thirty seconds. Lord bless this flu food and the hogs that are eating it. Amen. If that's the most of your prayer life, that's a shame. Sadly, that is for most people. I think about uh this prayer, they they it wasn't a very long prayer. And so it's not the length of your prayer that matters. And I'm not saying you've got to pray a long-winded hour and a half prayer to be able to get God to move, because this wasn't a long prayer. But listen, the the attitude and the mind and what was behind the prayer is what brought the move of God. And I think about this as they prayed, they prayed, and God moved the presence came in there and it was known. They saw the presence of God, the place was shaken where they were assembled, and they felt the presence of God. When's the last time you felt the presence of God in your secret place of prayer? When's the last time? Have you ever felt the presence of God in the place of your secret place? If it has, if you haven't, you need to get in that secret place and stay there until he moves in there with you. Amen. I think about this. They were there praying. And I believe if you read the accounts here in the early book, I b uh in the early church, I believe that they'd have been praying until he did show up. They were praying and they were expecting him to move and do something. Amen. I think that's important as I talked about already, having no faith. Pray, bully, expecting him to show up and do something. Amen. But pray and we see the outcome of the presence of God, also the power of God. They were filled with the Holy Ghost Amen. It said there in verse 31 that the place was shaken where they were assembled, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost. Listen, the Holy Ghost filling does not happen by accident. You're not going to stumble upon it one day and just be filled with the Holy Ghost. Now, don't get me wrong, don't get confused here. When you get saved, you get all of God. But the amount of God that or amount of you that God has can is determined by us. Amen. And in this place where we uh when you surrender all and you give all to God and you say, Lord, I want to empty myself as a vessel Fill me and use me. I don't care what happens or where you send me or what you want me to do. I want to be used of you. That's when you get filled with the Holy Ghost. Well, and this is what happened here. They said, we don't care about the threatenings. We don't care about anything else. We want you to give us the boldness to speak your word and do what you've told us to do. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost. It don't happen by accident. You know, I preached a message at a church here not that long ago Actually it was a year or so ago I preached a message and I was preaching about Is Your All on the Altar? And I had the pianist play, Is Your All on the Altar of Sacrifice Laid? And sadly, the preacher after uh after the invitation, he got up and he says, You know, I don't expect anyone to come for this invitation because that's just a really hard thing to do. I thought what a shame. And you wonder why this place is dead as de as dead as last year's Christmas tree. It's because of that right there. Amen. But I thought about what a shame. Hey, listen, you won't be filled with the Holy Ghost by accident. It's not going to happen by accident. It's going to take that secret place to where you're getting in touch with the presence of God to be filled with the Holy Ghost. I believe everybody here wants that, would want, should want that. I want that, amen. As it goes on, it says that the presence of God was there, the power of God was there, and I'm trying to hurry, and the purpose of God. Notice here when they were filled with the Holy Ghost, they didn't speak in tongues. Anyone else notice that There's a there's a lot of people out there that want to talk about if you're not if you're not speaking in tongues, you're not filled with the Holy Ghost. Listen, every time they were filled with the Holy Ghost in the book of Acts They did not speak in tongues every time. They were filled with the Holy Ghost. And tongues is not gibberish. It's a language. Amen. But think about this. They weren't filled with the Holy Ghost to speak in tongues at that moment. Why? Because they didn't need that They were filled with the Holy Ghost and did what they needed at that current point in time. Hey, the reason in the book of uh in the the back up two chapters When they were filled with the Holy Ghost and they spake in tongues. That was on the day of Pentecost when there was all these different people there that couldn't all speak the same language and they needed that at that particular time. Listen, when you're filled with the Holy Ghost, he gives you what you need at that particular time. Amen? What a blessing that is. I think about this, and it's all for his purpose. It's for what to accomplish his purpose at that time. At that time, they were praying to speak the word of God, and that matched up with what he wanted done, and they received it. Amen. I I I just picture this. I try to put yourself there. And I think about this. I picture people just getting up and about ready to burst out the door. Why? Because they're ready to go preach to whoever will stand still and listen to it Dr. Hitchman was talking about that this morning in Sunday school about once he when he got saved and thought, everybody's going to want to hear about this, right? And it don't take you very long to figure out that not everybody wants to hear about it. But we ought to have the boldness and the heart for other people enough to just say, you may not want to hear it, but I'm going to tell you anyway. Amen. Some guy the other day I was w I was d delivering tires and this guy comes up to me. I've he works with me and he knows me and he knows uh that I'm a a preacher and he knows all this and he says to me, he goes, You probably don't want to hear this, but I got a funny joke for ya. And I said, I don't want to hear it. You're right. You started off correctly. I don't I'm I'm not interested. But you know what he did? He proceeded to tell me anyway And I think about that. We ought to be that way with the gospel. Listen, just start telling it to people. Let them walk away. Jesus loves you, Jesus died for you. Amen? Let them walk away. Tell them anyway. Have the boldness to say it. I think about what a blessing it is to know that these men, these ladies, these people in this upper room, they were filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God in boldness. They got what they were praying for. Amen. What a blessing it is. I see here also not only did they speak the word with God with boldness, but they had unity amongst the believers. In verse 32 and 33. To be and they had great power to be witnesses. What a blessing that is there. I'm thankful for the fact that we can have this same power. This isn't limited to this particular point in time. I think about how signs some of the gifts have had ceased, and I believe that with all my heart. I believe that some of the signed gifts has ended, but I don't believe that this here has ended. I believe that we can still pray. I believe that we can still be filled with the Holy Ghost and we can still accomplish the purpose of God. I believe that. If I didn't believe it, I wouldn't be standing here right now. I believe that with all my heart. I think about tonight. I think we all have issues, we all have burdens, we all have struggles in our life, but we need to realize that the power comes from prayer, comes from God. Amen. Pray to a sovereign God. Pray as servants. Pray to speak God's word. And watch and expect and wait for the outcome. Wait for God's presence. Wait for God's power and see God's purpose be fulfilled. Amen? Let's stand together. Let's pray.