Psalm one hundred and fifty and let's all stand together, Psalm one hundred and fifty, and I want to read this psalm in its entirety. What you hear what the Lord has to say here in this final psalm, in this collection of psalms, Psalm 150. There's six verses. Verse 1 reads like this: Praise ye the Lord. Praise God in his sanctuary. Praise him in the firmament of his power. Praise him for his mighty acts. Praise him according to his excellent greatness. Praise him with the sound of the trumpet. Praise him with the psaltery and harp. Praise him with the timbrel and dance. Praise him with stringed instruments and organs. Praise him upon the loud cymbals. Praise him upon the high-sounding cymbals. Let everything that hath breath Praise the Lord. Praise ye the Lord. Father, we thank you for your word this evening, and thank you for the reminder in song, Lord, of your goodness to us. Father, I pray that you'll help us just now to see what is perhaps the most high and holy occupation we can be engaged in as your people. May we be praisers of thee. May our voices lift and join those in heaven as we give you glory for who you are and all that you are. Lord, we love you and we sure need you, and I pray you'd help us and speak to us now in Jesus' mighty name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. I don't know if you noticed in this Psalm, Psalm 150, that 13 times we're commanded to praise the Lord. Thirteen times we're commanded to praise the Lord. In all, the Bible tells us to praise Him 165 times. 165 times. And it's interesting to me that 13 of those 165 times are found in one place. Here in Psalm 150. I want you to notice just a few things with me, but I want you to understand what the word praise means. The word praise, if we literally translate the word, it means shine. Just shine. He said, What do you mean? Well, it means to show forth the splendor of someone To show forth the glory of something. It's to boast in. The word can mean celebrate. It can also mean to sing. And uh ultimately it it's giving God the glory. It might be with your opened mouth and just a simple praise, it may be with a song, it may be With a tear. It may be with just an utterance from the heart, Lord, I want to praise you. But praise is vital to the Christian life And I want you to see that tonight here out of this psalm. Would you look with me at first the command, this praise is commanded. We're commanded to praise the Lord. Now, if you stop and think about what the Lord's done for you, you would think that it would just be natural to praise the Lord. But how many of you know that it's not always natural to praise the Lord? Sometimes you've got to go against the grain and praise him anyhow Praise is not about how I feel about something. Praise is an act of obedience upon that which God has already told me to do. I used to hear preachers say praise him on credit. And I I kind of understand what they're saying, but you know what? He's I I'm the one that's indebted to praise the Lord. I need to put if he don't do anything else for me, he's already done more than I already deserved. He's already been better to me than than I could ever ask. Listen, I owe him an eternity of praise Just in the fact that he saved my lost soul. And so the Bible commands me to praise him. Do you know this is the most repeated command in the scripture? Of all the things God tells me to do, and there's a lot of things God tells me to do, praise is the most oft-repeated command. Thirteen times, as I said here in this psalm, he's already commanded us. Let me say this: praise is not a luxury, but a necessity. A lot of times we think, well, you know, I'll praise the Lord when I feel like it. Or I'll praise the Lord when things get to going a little bit better. Can I say to you, if you hang around waiting on something to change other than what's already changed, you'll never praise the Lord like he needs to be praised. Praise is a necessity. You say for who? Well, for you, one, and for God, too. It is helpful to us. Not only is praise a necessity, it's an absolute. It's not an option. It's not an option. It is the one thing that links me to those who are already in heaven Do you know in heaven they're doing what we ought to be doing more of down here on earth? They're praising the Lord. And one of the things that you find out when you study the revelation is that in all of eternity, throughout all of eternity, we're going to be employed in praising the Lord. Look, everywhere you read it seems when you look up into heaven, men are praising the Lord. Now let me say this, it's the most unnatural thing for a person to do in in a in a real sense in our flesh, that's to praise the Lord. It's very na l isn't it natural to murmur and complain? I mean that just comes easy And the reality is that he's commanded me to praise him because he is worthy, and I need the help to be reminded that the Lord is worthy. In heaven they are continually praising the Lord. If we could roll back a screen, if we could peek into the glory world. If somehow or another you and I could see what's happening up there from down here, we would hear all of heaven just reverberating. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. His name would be being praised. In fact, he's encircled continually with the cry of the angels, holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. They are on their knees before him, giving him praise and glory and honor. And I'm telling you, my friend, one day we're going to join that heavenly company. And we'll lift and blend our voices and we'll do the same thing. And I think it's mighty wise to start practicing down here for what we're going to be doing up there Praise the Lord. We're commanded to praise the Lord. But I want you to see something else. It's concentrated. Our praises are concentrated. Fifteen times in this text, and I'm not going to go through all of them, but look at this. Praise ye the Lord. Praise God. Praise him. And not only praise him, but praise him for his mighty acts. Praise him according to his excellent greatness. Praise him with the sound of the trumpet. And so on and so forth. You see, praise puts the spotlight where it ought to be. Praise puts the spotlight on the Lord Have you ever noticed when you complain about something that thing grows? It's sort of like a dripping faucet in the middle of the night. And have you ever noticed you can go all day long and that thing don't bother you at all? But let you get still and quiet, and that little drip sounds almost like the Niagara Falls. In the middle of the night. You know why? Because you get concentrated on it. You hear it. Then you focus on it. And I believe that's that's the reason the Lord tells us to praise him so Because it concentrates our attention on the Lord. You know something, whether I praise him or not, he is the Lord. And he is good, and he is God, and he's everything the Bible says, whether I praise him or not. But I enter into the benefits of understanding who he is when I begin to praise him aright. He's to be the object of our praise. It's interesting that this psalm starts with and ends with the same statement. You see that in verse number one, praise ye the Lord. Verse number six, praise ye the Lord. You know why? Because it's concentrated on him. Praise ye the Lord. You praise the Lord. You praise him for who he is. You know one thing we often talk about praise, we sometimes get confused and we think praising is about feeling. Let me say this, praising has nothing to do with feeling. Feelings got to catch up with your praising. We don't praise him because we get an emotional tickle. We praise him because he's worthy to be praised. If you'll study that word through the Bible, men praise God in some of the most awful situations. Job, at the loss of all things, praise the Lord. You find Daniel praising the Lord in the lion's den. You find Jeremiah down in the pit praising the Lord You will find Moses praising God on the backside of the desert. You will find others like Sarah praising God. And throughout all the Word of God, you find Jacob as he's a dying. Praising the Lord. You'll find men and women of all sorts of situations. Look at that woman coming back from the well. You know what she was doing? She was praising the Lord that she had met someone who told her all things that she did. She said, This has got to be the Messiah. She had found the answer she was looking for. Praise concentrates on him. I want you to notice something else. I want you to see how praise is not only commanded and praise concentrates on the Lord, but praise is consuming. I want you to note something here. The Bible says, praise God in his sanctuary. That's an appropriate place. Praise God in his sanctuary. If you can't praise God in his sanctuary, I don't know where else you can praise him. If you can't praise God, listen now we don't have an Old Testament sanctuary, but we do have a New Testament assembly. And you and I are believers who are indwelt by the Spirit of God. And the Bible says your body's a temple of the Holy Spirit. If you can't praise him here, you tell me where you can praise him. Sometimes we've got to be careful that we don't get so full of ourselves that we forget what we're here for or who we're here for. And forget that, hey, he's worthy of our praise. He's worthy of our praise. Do you know we have opportunity to praise the Lord when we open up our hymn book and we begin to sing? We're praising the Lord. I want you to remember something. When you stand and sing, you don't need to worry about who's hearing you or who's watching you or what's happening as far as you're concerned. You are praising the Lord. We're praising the Lord. We're praising him when w when we sing. It look, it don't hurt my feelings if you want to sing while the choir's singing. I often do, because I don't want them to get in on all the good stuff I I mean that that's a little selfish of them, isn't it? And it wouldn't hurt their feelings if you join in and help them as we praise the Lord. When we bow our heads and pray, we can praise the Lord in prayer. We can praise the Lord in prayer. When we sit and and hear the word of God, we can praise him. I'm not trying to make us all the same and be just alike, but I am saying this. He ought to be praised. He's worthy to be praised. It's a consuming thing. They're praising God in his sanctuary. Then look at this. Praise him in the firmament of his power. And I believe he's speaking of the vast expanse of his creation. He's literally saying, you praise him in the sanctuary, praise him in the firmament of his power, in the greatness of his creation, praise the Lord. You know, if the Muslim can be so bold as to stop at a certain time of day and turn in a direction no matter where he is at or what's going on. and roll out his prayer mat and call on a God that does not exist. Surely to goodness you and I can praise God every once in a while, outside in the creation that He has made. You know the only thing that'll often get in our way is we're just proud. Well what will they think? Well, they might think you love the Lord. And they might not think of you at all. They may not care. But the bottom line is, it don't matter what they think, we ought to praise God in the firmament of his power. I believe everything God's created praises him in some way or another. Do you know they're saying that stars emit a certain musical note? that they are constantly admitting and they're trying to figure all that out. How are the stars making this musical note? How are they blending together, making this beautiful symphony of s I'll tell you what they're doing. They're up there praising the Lord. When the stars come out at night they're praising God. When the moon shines and the sun rises, it's praising the Lord. When the little bird sits on the limb, he's praising God. He's singing the praises of the Lord. God made them with that ability. I love those little Carolina wrens. We got them all over the campground. And they're just we little birds, but man, can they ever sing. And they'll jump up somewhere on top of something. Usually they'll sit right on the plant hanger right in front of the front window there and he'll sit there usually just as it's getting daylight and he'll sing his little heart out. He'll sing and sing and sing and And I know enough about those little birds to know that sometimes he's singing uh uh a call that he's trying to locate his mate or he's trying to draw or attract a mate. But you know at the end of the day he's just praising the Lord. Well w whatever he's he's engaged in, he's just praising the Lord. God made him with the ability to sing, and he's praising the Lord. I believe every beast of the forest Every animal that crawls on this earth somehow or another makes a sound that brings praise to God. You know why? Because they know God made them and they're giving him the glory for it, and they're praising the Lord. Now can you and I sit here tonight washed in the royal blood of Jesus Christ, on our way to heaven with all of our sins put away, never to be remembered against us again? our eternity secured in heaven by God and by his great power, can we let the created objects give God greater glory than redeemed souls? Shame look, may God help me not to ever let them outdo me in praising him. It's a consuming thing I want you to notice it was appropriate in the sanctuary. It was appropriate in the firmament of his power. It was appropriate to praise him with the trumpet. Andy, I thought of you. It's appropriate to s to to praise him with the trumpet. We've missed your trumpet over these few weeks, and it it's awesome to hear that thing go again. There's just something about a trumpet that stirs you And uh you know, it sometimes just makes you want to stand up or just stand up, just honor it, you know. But he said, praise him with the trumpet, praise him with the psalter and heart, praise him with the timbrel and dance, praise him with stringed instruments and organs. Praise him upon the loud symbols. Praise him upon the high-sounding symbols. You want to say? If I can just say it like this, just about anything you can get your hand on, praise God with it. Just praise him with it. You know why? Because he's worthy. He is worthy. I'd rather hear someone pluck and plink with a heart to praise God than to play with such majesty and orchestration that that it sounds just almost unreal because of its beauty, and it have no intent to praise God but to please the ear or draw attention to the person. Look, my friend, God's interested in your praising him. And he says, praise. It's a consuming thing. Look at it. It consumes everything. And then you'll notice this grand conclusion in verse 6. Let everything. Don't skip over that. Let everything that hath breath praise the Lord. You got breath? By the way, you ought to praise the Lord for it. If you didn't have it, you'd know how bad you missed it. Let everything that hath breath praise the Lord. Last Sunday morning I got tied up talking back here and the red light came on and we went on air and I had to go from about where Dr. Hitchin is to here before the choir let go. And uh give the greeting. I was praying Brother Dow would stretch it a little. But he he shortened it, I think. He was being mean. And boy, when I got here, I didn't have no breath. I didn't used to have that problem. And I it took me a minute to get my breath back. But you know my Bible says, look, take a deep breath. You've got breath. Praise the Lord. He's the one that gave it to you. Every beat of your heart, you feel that thing something in there? Every beat of your heart, that's God's doing. That's God's doing. Hey, thank God for the for the uh medical abilities and all of the discoveries and and a lot of the things that they can do now amaze me. But at the end of the day, my whole heart's still beating because God said beat. God said beat. He's the one in charge of that. You know why you're living tonight? Because God's let you live You know why, my friends, you still look among those that have breath, and ought you not and ought I not to praise the Lord, because He's the giver of life. Let everything that hath breath praise the Lord. Everything that hath breath ought to praise the Lord simply because he's the giver of life and he is the sustainer of life. Do you realize how fragile you are? I mean, let's just be honest. My preacher used to say in his little mountain way, he would say a gnat could go down your throat backwards and take you into eternity. And that's true. Man, it don't take a lot to take us out of here. It really don't. But the reason you're here and I'm here is because God sustained us. David said, I laid me down and slept, and I awaked. For the Lord sustain me. It was the Lord watching over him. Now by the way, he wrote that when he was running from Saul and he's sleeping in the forest and he's sleeping in the caves and he's all over the countryside and you know what he came to the point he said you know if God wants to take me he's gonna take me If he's going to keep me alive, he'll keep me alive. I'm going to lay down and sleep. When I wake up in the morning, it's because God woke me up, and I'm going to praise him for it. He's the sustainer of life. Let me say this, let everything that hath breath praise the Lord. Not only praise him because he's the giver of life, he's the sustainer of life, but my friend, he's a reason to live. He's the reason to live. You got any other reason to live? L listen, my friend, if you're getting up in the morning just to go to work so you can earn m money and pay bills. So you can have a place to come back and go to sleep. So you can get up in the next morning and go to work. So you can pay bills. So you can have enough money. Look, if that's all you're living, you're on a sad merry-go-round. And there's no merry in it. It's just li I mean you're just existing. But isn't it a blessing to get up in the morning and know, hey, God's got something for me to do? God's put me somewhere. God's given me a place. God's given me a purpose. There's somebody going to cross my path. There's somebody who uh I might be able to point to the Lord Jesus. God's given me another day to live, another opportunity to serve Him, and I'm just going to take the advantage and go ahead and praise the Lord. Because he's given me a purpose to live. My friend, if you don't know him, you don't have a purpose, but he has a purpose. He's made a way. He wants you to know him. He wants you to be saved. And my friend, when you get saved, you'll understand once and for all, God made me on purpose. Listen, friend, God makes there's no accidents. There's no there's no mistakes. You say, you don't know how I got here. I don't know how you got here, but I do know this. God brought you. God brought you. There people say all the time, you know, I I wasn't supposed to be born. I I I didn't ask for the but listen, friend, ultimately there's a God in heaven who ordains your life And gave you purp and put you and listen, he didn't leave you here just to live and die without Christ and spend eternity in hell He put you on this earth so you could be saved and know him and love him and live for him and see what great things he could do in your life. Don't Jesus make a difference? Thank God for the difference he makes. Preacher, you say, but I've messed up. And I've made a mess of things. Well, my dear friend, I want to remind you of something. There's a God who takes messes and works miracles. My Bible's full of examples of it. Every pla it seems like every page I read, I see something in in in uh In man's mistakes, in man's misery, and in man's multiplied sins. Listen, here's what the Bible says: God makes even the wrath of man to praise him. God can make the wrath of man to praise him. God can take the the the disastrous, the devastating, the destructive And he can so weave it into the fabric of your existence that he is going to get glory and honor and praise out of it in some grand and wonderful way. Now only God can do that. And I don't know about you, but that makes me want to get on my knees and say, Lord, direct every step, guide me every part of the way. Because you know better than I do which way I need to go and what needs to happen. And Lord, I want my life to praise you. I want our lives to praise Him. It's a consuming thing, consumes all of our life. And I want you to see from this little psalm that praise is a command that we must obey. We must obey. Do you know it's safe to praise the Lord? Safe. S-A-F-E. It's safe. It's safe to praise the Lord. What's the other option? You know, the Bible tells us that David encouraged himself in the Lord. And sometimes that's all you got. Sometimes you've got to encourage yourself. You know how to do it? Start praising the Lord. I know I told you about brother Billy, Billy Kelly. I I love him. And uh miss that dear brother. He was just such a unique man. He he didn't fit nobody's mold and he you sure dare not try to put him in one. He'd tear it all to pieces. He didn't like moles. But uh he was unique. He was just unique. Everything about him was unique. But he he too, and oftentimes you'll find jubilant people can have equally depressing times. Seem like those fellows that get way up here, you can get way down here. And I'll tell you, he got way down there. And he said he just went out. He couldn't pray, couldn't do anything. He just started praising the Lord. And when he started praising and thanking the Lord, he said the Lord came and visited his heart and ministered to him. Sometimes, well the Bible says this, he inhabits the praises of his people. You want God to get near? Start praising him. You want to get the Lord's presence in your life and get help from the Lord, just start praising him. Maybe you just need to put an end to that endless prayer request of Lord do this and I need that and hear me over here and help me and just stop and say Lord I I'm not here to ask for nothing. I'm just here to say thank you. Lord, I'm here to praise you. I want to thank you for saving me. I want to thank you, Lord, for forgiving me. I want to thank you, Lord, for working in my heart. I want to thank Thanks for being good to me I want to thank you, God, for all the kindnesses you've shown me. And you start praising God and look out, look out, you'll get out of that slew of desponde awfully quick. He'll lift you up But praise is a command we must obey. Our praise must be concentrated on the Lord. We praise no secondary sources, we praise Him alone. We praise him. He's worthy. He's the Lord. As the psalmist says here, Praise ye the Lord. And our praise should be a continually consuming occupation of our life. Wouldn't it be sad to live your whole life and praise God very little? And then step into eternity where you're going to praise Him for all time. Somebody said heaven's gonna bring a culture shock. I'm afraid that's true There's going to be a lot of things going on in heaven that perhaps we've never entertained down here on earth. Have you ever deliberately praise the Lord? I mean, have you ever just praised him in such a way you just couldn't help it? You couldn't help it. Now look, you're not you've never looked at any more one more shy than the one standing in front of you right now. I was so backward as a kid. Man, when family would come, I'd hide in a barn. And I knew those people. That 's probably why I did, I don't know But when God got a hold of my heart and I got right with the Lord, I remember sitting, I was sitting on the very back row. My mother said they sat back there because all of us were so bad when we were little, she didn't want to have to go far. I know it's not politically correct, but to beat us. And so I was sitting there and I'll never forget that first service. My heart was right with God. I wasn't distant from him anymore. And the preacher started talking about it. And I wanted to praise the Lord, but I was scared to death. I thought if I said Amen or praise the Lord, that the whole church would stop and look. And you know what? There were so many of them doing the same thing that nobody would have heard my little squeak anyway. And it wasn't elaborate, it wasn't emotional or ecstatic, it's just a simple amen. But I'll tell you it came from my heart. And it went straight. I believe to God in heaven. And listen, he's worthy of that. It ought to be our consuming occupation. In fact, the more you praise him, the more you find out you've got reason to praise him. And the more we praise him, the more we ought to want to praise him. And the more we begin to understand he's worthy of praise. Listen, praise tonight is always appropriate. It's always accepted, and it's powerful in the life of a believer. Friend, praise ye the Lord. Dr. Clarence Sexton says there are several things that will take you through in life. He gives this advice. He says to the pastor, preach your way through it, because that's God's calling. But he also said, always remember, believer, to praise your way through. Praise your way through. When the children of Israel conquered Jericho, they did it by praise. They marched and marched in silence until the appropriate time. And then they lifted their voice. And I'm saying that praise will take you through. Praise will take you through valleys. Praise will take you through difficulties. Praise will take you through bereavement. Praise will take you through sickness. Praise will take you through all sorts of darkness that may enter into your life. Sometimes by divine choosing. But God praise is always appropriate because God's always worthy of our praise. And may God help us tonight to praise ye the Lord. Let's stand together