Open your Bibles please to the book of Acts, chapter number two, and I want to read two verses please in your hearing. Acts chapter number two, and I'm going to read verse 46 and verse 47. And when you find that in the Bible, I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please, this evening. Acts chapter number 2 and verse 46 and 47. The scripture reads, and they, talking about these that gladly received his word and were baptized, and they continuing daily with one accord in the temple. and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart. Praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. In reading through the characteristics of the church, I noticed these two words that have never really stood out like they did recently to me. And that are the two words found in verse number 47. It says, praising God. You'll notice of all the things that they did, they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine. They continued in fellowship, breaking of bread, prayers. They continued daily with one accord in the temple, but they also praised God. So I want to preach tonight with the help of the Lord on praising God. Father, help us, please. We stand in need of your touch. We bow our heads in your presence, Lord, and give you all the cares of our heart. We ask you, Lord, to do what only you can do for your people. Lord, I pray that you would both walk and work among us. And help us, O Lord, to learn something very practical here, but I believe also very powerful. Help us, Lord, I pray, to be a church like this church was. And Lord, for what you do in our hearts, we'll praise you and thank you. For we ask it now, in Jesus' name, and God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. I want you to notice how the Bible describes this church And uh this is the beginning. We read in Acts chapter 2 of the coming of the Spirit of God and the uh the birthing, if you let me use that word, the birthing of the local church. There in Jerusalem in the upper room. And it was there that Peter began, as they went out into the streets and they began to preach the gospel. That God worked in hearts, and God worked in a lot of hearts, because verse 41 says, and the same day they were added unto them about three thousand souls. Man, what a day that was. Here in one day there were added unto them about 3,000 souls. In one day, God saved 3,000 people. Added that to the 120 who were already identified as followers of Jesus Christ. And so you have in Jerusalem, at least at this moment A church of 3,120 people. All in a matter of just hours, really. God did such a wonderful thing. And then he describes to us what kind of church it was. He tells us about a church that continued in the apostles' doctrine. And I like what it says about them, that they continued steadfastly. Here was a church not going to be easily moved away from the truth. They were a church that was not easily moved away from the teaching of the apostles and that doctrine that had been given. And by the way, the doctrine of the apostles was the doctrine of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because they received their doctrine from him. And so they continued in that. They continued in the fellowship. They continued in breaking of bread. They continued in prayers. And yet the Bible tells us down here in our text verse that they also did something else that set them apart from all others, and that is that they were praising God. They were praising God. It's interesting to me when you read about what was going on here. When you go over to the book of Luke, you see that after Jesus ascended They were in the temple daily, and what were they doing? The Bible says they were praising the Lord. They were praising God. Here was the people with the praises of God on their heart. The word praise that's used here in Acts chapter 2 means to raise in words or to exalt in commendation. And so what they're doing is they're using their voices, they're using their words, and uh they're praising God. They're praising him for who he is. They're taking their mouths and they're lifting him up and they're rejoicing. Now, I've got to tell you something. Remember where all this is happening at. A lot of this is going on in the temple. A lot of this is happening there in that assembly of peoples that weren't used to doing that. See, at G in Jesus' time the temple had become a place of formality. It was a place of real coldness I mean they held to the law, but they continued in the law, and they did everything that was required of them concerning the law, but their praises were mere just monotonous noise. It was not heartfelt praise to God. And you know the difference. You know the difference between something that is manufactured and something that is moved by the Spirit of God. There is a difference. There's something different about that that's just sort of, you know, I heard a fellow preaching one time and he was going verbatim by his notes. And he got to the place and he had written in his notes, say amen right there. And so instead of just saying amen, he went and say amen right there. And he told on himself. Well, there's a formality about worship sometimes that we often get trapped in and caught in, and yet here are these people. Just imagine with me, would you? Over 3,000 of these people now suddenly are coming into the temple, and they're not praising God in a formal way, but they're praising God with a heartfelt fervency. They love the Lord and they're saying, Amen. Praise the Lord. Glory be to God. Hallelujah They're using those age-old expressions that come from our Old Testament, and they were yet worshiping with a newfound fervency in the Lord Jesus Christ. They were praising God. Now, boy, there's a lot in the Bible about praise. One of the hard things about preaching on something like this is narrowing it down to what I should say. So you pray for me. But praising God, the Psalms are full of praises. It's our praise book, if I can say that The Psalms, all all 150 of them are praises to God. They are given to us that we might with our mouths Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. Can I give you a few to think about? Just jot them down. We're not going to turn to them. just for sake of time. But number one, the Bible says in Psalm 7 verse 17, we ought to sing our praise. Ought to sing our praise. It means that we ought to i i you know we ought to sing, take our voices in song, and we ought to sing our praise. Can I say tonight that when we sing, that's not a filler in a service. It's an opportunity to praise the Lord. It's a time if you're saved to participate and say, I want my voice to join with your voice so that we can all together give praise to God because He's worthy of it. Sing praises. Psalm 9. 1 says we ought to do it with a whole heart. W H O L E, whole heart. The entire heart. Our praises ought to be something that are not just formal expressions from coldness. They ought to be something that comes from a living source. We ought to praise the Lord with our whole heart. Psalm 22. Actually that whole psalm is a unique psalm because it has so much to say about praise. But we ought to praise him, Psalm 22 says, in the congregation. That means we ought to praise the Lord when we come together as God's people. When the people of God assemble That means it's an opportunity to praise the Lord. That's one of our responsibilities when we come together in the house of God, is to praise God Psalm 33 verse 1 says it's comely. That's not a word we use, but it it normally it's an Old English word that means appropriate and right fitting. That means it's in it it's in good order to praise the Lord. It's comely for the upright. It's what upright people do. It's what saved people do. We praise the Lord. Then Psalm 33 in verse 2 says, we ought to praise him with instruments. I believe that verse says, praise him with the harp. And then you get on in the Psalms, and there's about four other places and four other instruments, not telling me that those instruments are exclusively to be used, but telling me that with the instruments I can praise the Lord. And Psalm 34, verse 1 says we're to praise him continually. Continually Psalm 50, verse 23, says that it glorifies God when we praise Him. It glorifies God. Isn't that what we've come here to do? We've come here to glorify God in this assembly, and you know what we ought to do? We ought to praise God. And in doing so, we glorify the Lord. Now this might get a few of you, but Psalm 98. 4 says we ought to do it with a loud voice. Look it up, Psalm 98. 4 with a loud voice. This is the quietest world you'll live in. And uh we ought to use our voices to praise the Lord. Saw the Bible says in Psalm one hundred that you ought to approach God with praises. God says, you come when you come to me, come with thanksgiving. You know, there's a An appropriate way to approach heavenly royalty. You know anything about royalty, and uh they they tell you that when you uh approach royalty, you're sp you're supposed to do it in a particular way. The particular way we had the opportunity. It was the oddest thing in the world. They came to our church. Somebody was visiting our area. And they said, We want you to represent. uh some old-fashioned people that once lived on these marshes around here. They said, we notice all of your ladies wear dresses and have long hair and all that. And they said, would they come and represent uh these old-fashioned French ladies who once lived in the marsh, and do so and greet this uh group of individuals and and uh the Queen's representative was there And so you get all of these instructions, you know, you never turn your back to royalty, and you're supposed to, what is it women do, curtsy, and you you there's all sorts of rules when you approach royalty You just don't walk up to the queen and say, Howdy Queen, my name's so-and-so. And shake her hand. That just don't cut it, you know. That's that's narkosher. But but the reality is God says I'm the king of heaven. And when you come into my courts and when you come into my throne, you must come with thanksgiving. That's not hard to do because he's been so good to all of us. In fact, it ought to be the response of our hearts to say, Lord, you've been so good to me, I just want to give you thanks. It's commanded. Psalm a hundred and four starts the commands of Praise ye the Lord. And from Psalm one hundred and on You have multitudes. There's over 20 that say, Praise ye the Lord, praise ye the Lord, praise ye the Lord. If I can put it in the plain terms in which it is, it simply says, you praise the Lord. It's a command. And then it's to come, Psalm 106 says that ye that believe God praise him. So praise comes out of a faith-filled heart. I'm going to say something later, but I want to go ahead and say it now, so maybe it'll stick. Praising God should not be relegated to my feelings. It comes from my faith. I'm I'm sure like all of you, we've all come in this building feeling pretty bad. You ever come to church feeling bad? Somebody say, preacher, I'm so I feel so bad I can't raise my hand Well, then they're done that. But yet there there comes a place where our faith please hear me now, our faith overrides our feelings. Our faith says, you know what? God's worthy of praise, whether I feel like it or not. I may not feel like praising God, but by the way God never said for my praises to come from my feelings. He said my praises are to come from my faith. That believing heart says, Praise the Lord. Do you know the Lord Jesus? I never really thought about that. I heard a man preaching this text, and he said to that man Who was hanging on the cross, verily, verily, I say unto thee Do you know that word verily is truly, but it also is amen. And when that thief on the cross said, Remember me, Jesus said, Amen. That's what I'm dying for. And he praised God on the cross in the last moments of his life. Now listen, my faith ought to make me able to praise the Lord. It comes from a faith-filled heart. My there's so many of these. But I want to get to the heart of the message and just challenge us tonight on this thing of praising God. Number one, I want you to notice that it's the characteristic of the saved. Or let me say it like this: save people, praise God. Go back up in verse 41 here in Acts chapter 2. The Bible says, then they that gladly received his word were baptized. And the same day there were added unto them about 3,000 souls. Notice that they, verse 42, they continued steadfastly. And verse 44, and all that believed We're together in verse 46, and they who are we talking about here? We're talking about these saved people. We're talking about these men and women. Who had believed on the Lord Jesus Christ and gotten saved. What did they do? They praised the Lord. Luke chapter 24 and verse 53 says, and were continually in the temple. Praising and blessing God. And the scripture says, Amen. Luke 24, 53. You see, what I'm trying to say tonight is that praising the Lord is a characteristic of people who are saved. Saved people praise God. Now, think about this for a minute. They're in that temple As the people gathered to worship, there was a formality of worship that had gone on for centuries. And it continued to go on much in the same way. A psalm was given and sung, and uh scriptures were read and recited, and There was a formality that was going on, but in that group of people that had gathered for formal worship was a group of people who had been saved by the grace of God, and now they were true worshipers. And so that formal crowd is going through the motion, and all of a sudden maybe they're giving out a psalm and they're perhaps singing a psalm and the saved ones go, Amen. Don't you know that sort of shook things up in the temple? Don't you know that sort of uh made them turn around? I'll never forget years ago went to a gospel hall. uh uh conference down in a place called Pugwash, Nova Scotia, and we were all in there and uh the Gospel Hall have uh teaching sessions during the summer and all summer long these preachers come and teach them how to be good gospel haulers but every once in a while they'll have a preacher who just cuts loose and preaches the Bible And they had this old Irishman, and he was up preaching the Bible, and I had a man with me who had been saved, and man, he loved the Lord, and he got so excited during that preaching, he said, Amen. And he had a set of pipes on him like an organ. Man, he blowed it out. And we were sitting back probably about midway, uh the middle section, about almost to the back And when he said amen, we learned two things. Number one, they obviously don't do that. And number two , everybody stopped. And turned around. Little children climbed up on the back of their seats and stared I mean, it so disrupted the normal order of what was going on. Do you know that preacher quit preaching? He's preaching good. And he stopped preaching and he's looking. You say, What did you do? Man, I got so bothered by it. I just started started staring at him. I was like, What'd you do? Look what you did. You just ruined it for all of us It was so abnormal. But the man got to preach and that settled down. They all turned back around and And he cleared his voice or his throat and he started preaching again. And he got to preaching good again. And before you know it, that brother went, Amen. And there's a few more give him the side eye and looked at him. I'm just saying, dear friend, that it ought not to be an unusual thing for the praises of God to come out of the mouth of the children of God. It ought to be something that is inborn in us, something that comes from within us, simply because we've been saved by the grace of God. Saved people have something to praise God for. Now let me stop here and say we ought not to try to manufacture it. Well, I'll tell you, it breaks my heart to see it. And I don't think a lot of people realize how much it's manufactured today as it is. There's a lot of preaching that panders for amen. You know what I'm saying? Um there's there's preaching that is geared to solicit a response. It it it it it's it it it's we know it's appropriate, we know it's needed, we know it's necessary, and so oftentimes it it we feel like we've got to generate it, we've got to solicit it. We've got to somehow make it happen. And it becomes nothing but a fake and a put-on because we're trying to work it up. A lot of times music is geared in that way. Music is utilized to work up an emotion or to stir up a feeling so that We can express uh uh that that there will be something brought out. Like the old Irish preacher said, if you talk about the moon setting over little Willie's grave, you could make a stone cry. Well, that's what happens sometimes. We we try to and I'm not talking about that. I hope you understand that's not what I'm talking about. I'm not trying to even encourage that because it's not wrong. It's not right. It's I believe it's a wrong thing. See, these people were praising God not because they were enticed or not because they were solicited to. They were praising God because they had something to praise God for They had something in them that said, that's right, that's good. Amen. I agree. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. That touched their hearts. Do you remember when you first got saved and you sung hymns that maybe you'd sung your whole life, but you sung them saved? Didn't it mean more? Didn't amazing grace just sound sweeter after you tasted the grace of God? Didn't victory in Jesus mean more to you once you finally had it in Jesus? Wasn't there something in you that resonated? You know, I I'll never forget the first time I said amen in church And I I I had been saved for a little bit and and and you know I'm just a kid and I wasn't sure if kids are supposed to do that or not, but something the preacher said So help me it come out of me before I knew it was even in me. And next thing you know, I said, Amen. I turned blood red, wanted to get under the pew. Because I I thought, now somebody's gonna look at me, and I stride backwards. If they looked at me, I wanted to go crawl in a hole. But it was something God had done. That's what I'm talking about, this praising God. That's a characteristic of the saved. There's something in us there's as a believer, as those who are born again. There is something in you that says, oh Lord, you're worthy of my praise. I want to praise you. So it's a characteristic of the saved number two. It is compelling to the lost. Do you know when we praise God, it compels the lost? Notice verse 47. Praising God, comma, and Having favor with all the people. There's something about that here. I believe the Holy Spirit put it in there. They weren't courting favor, but they had favor. In other words, they weren't out there politicking, trying to get people to like them. They were genuinely thankful and worshiping God. And because of that, they had favor with the people. The people said, now that's something real. That's something different. That crowd that goes up there to the temple, when they go up to the temple, they go through the formalities and they do it with such deadness that it don't seem to make a difference. But who are these people? Where did they come from? Their praises seem to be different. They seem to be a people that really love God and they love the truth and they're praising God. I want you to see it was compelling to the lost. Do you realize that praise communicates a message? You're saying something. You know. It's not mindless. It's not just senseless emotion. It's not just mere fleshly excitement. You're communicating a message. In fact, the Bible says in Psalm 79, 13 that we communicate the mighty works of God to the next generation through our praises. That as we praise God for what he does and we praise God for who he is, we're sending a message to the next generation that our God is real. That salvation is good. That his mercies are new every morning. You're saying something with your praises. By the way, we are saying something when we don't praise God. We're communicating here. In Acts chapter 16, do you remember the account? Paul and Silas were preaching there in Philippi, and their preaching landed them in jail. And they had been beaten and put in stocks, and about midnight, verse 25 says, they began to sing praises. They prayed and sang praises to God. So here they are with bloody backs and bruised bodies, praising the Lord. Now that said something. That said something. That said, our salvation is so good that God's still worthy, and our God is so good that He's worthy of our praises even when our bodies are in pain. Even though we don't have anything outwardly to praise God for, we're not free men any longer. We're now bound and we've been beaten, but we're still going to praise him because God's still good. See, that's where our feelings, our faith overrides our feelings. We realize that you know what? God's still God and He's still good. I think sometimes we think that all of a sudden Paul and Silas sitting there in stocks and bonds and their backs bloody and bruised and bleeding, and we think, well, I bet they got this warm feeling that made them just want to sing. I don't believe that I don't know if you've ever been beat up, but it don't feel good And I'll tell you the last thing you want to do when you've had the stuffing beat out of you is to praise the Lord. I went to a public school and had to endure some of those things. And we had a particular bully. He was about he was all he was our age at that time. We were probably nine or ten years old, but man, he was he was double all of us in size. and weight and everything else. And man, he he used that very frequently. And uh i i i i when your body is hurting like these men these men their bodies were hurting They're flesh and blood like you. If you took a whip and somebody beat you across the back, you're going to feel that pain. Your body's going to be aching and there's and then to be fastened like they were with their feet and their hands, or their legs rather in the stalks, they were in a position that made that pain enhanced Because it was pulling apart those tissues that had been ripped by that beating and now they're in an awkward position and their bot and they can't adjust to get comfortable They 're they're in a s probably sitting on a stone floor, and here they are being treated like the off-scouring of the earth. And here's what they do at midnight at the very Peak of the night, they began to sing and they began to praise the Lord and they begin to pray. And you remember what happened. The Bible says there was a great earthquake. I like one old preacher's interpretation. He said God got to enjoying the music so well he was tapping his foot and shook the earth. You know, that's almost biblical because the earth is his footstool. Nevertheless, that jailer jumped in, and what were the first words out of his mouth, Sirs, what must we do to be saved? We need to be I want to be saved. Listen, he was interested in getting what those men had. And I believe pr their praises is what compelled them to come to the Lord Jesus Christ. It is compelling to the lost when God's people will praise Him. It's compelling to the lost when we praise God. When it looks like we've got no outward circumstance, no outward reason to be praising the Lord. I bet that jailer was scratching his head. What's wrong with these fellas? We beat them, we've imprisoned them, we've done everything we can do to them to shut them up, and here they are still praising the Lord. Oh, brother, sister, there's great power in praise. When you deliberately praise God. When you say, I don't care what's going on, I don't care what's happening, I'm just going to praise God anyhow. God give us those kind of Christians at Marinatha Baptist Church. God help us to be those kind of saints in this assembly. I'm afraid we've gotten so shallow in our walk with God and in our faith in Christ. That the least little thing jars us loose from the realities of eternal things. And the next thing you know are circumstances. I'm not saying, I'm not pardon me I'm not saying circumstances are inconsequential. I know full well the consequence of circumstances When I first came here, I was put on some medication. I was standing up here preaching on a on a Sunday, Sunday morning actually. And I'll never forget I was standing here preaching and all of a sudden the congregation went whoop And everybody's upside down. And I grabbed a hold of this pulpit because I wanted to make sure I knew if I'm feeling the pulpit, this is right side up. But what my eyes are seeing are not right side up. I'm uh everything's upside down. And I decided right then and there, now Lord, you've given me this message and I can't see it because it's it don't make sense now But if you'll help me get through it, I'm going to get through it. And there are times, brother, sister, that we get in a circumstance and our life goes And it's upside down. And everything I thought should be is not. And all those that I thought I could count on, I cannot. And the next thing you know, everything in my world's upside down. But guess who's still right side up? The Lord Jesus Christ. He's still God. He's still good. And He still ought to be praised. Sometimes you've got to say, Lord, I'm going to praise your own credit. I'm just going to praise you anyhow. I'm going to praise you because you're worthy. I'm going to praise you because you're good. I'm going to praise you because it's right. I'm going to Praise you cause it's commanded. I'm gonna praise you cause them saved. You can't lose it, he can't take it. Thank God you'll always have it because Jesus Christ saved you eternally. And and for that reason alone we got something to praise the Lord for. It's compelling to the lost. When the lost see you and me still praising God in spite of things, in spite of the storm, in spite of the problems. And I'll tell you what, that takes faith That takes faith, saying feelings get at the back of the train. That takes faith that says, now my feelings are going to have to follow my faith, because my faith says this is the right thing to do. A man I respect greatly who's now in heaven. Years ago I remember him coming in, he had arthritis so bad in his hands that his fingers were curled almost in a perfect sea. All of them. And he had these swelling places on his knees, and almost every joint was just riddled with this horrible arthritis. He had a bad heart He had about everything wrong with him physically imaginable. But that man would come to church every service. He come in one Sunday night and he he the kids they'll remember this, Josiah remembers this. He he wore one of them flat hats. I call them old man hats. I don't know what the proper title is And he he wore one of them flat hats, and he would get at the bottom of the stairs, and he had done this for so many years, he could Fling that thing like a horseshoe and land it right on the edge of the uh of where the the coats and stuff were hanging and just perfectly set it And all the kids was standing there and watching. They thought that was the coolest thing ever. And I've watched him struggle to get up them steps and pull his old tired body. And I'd say to him, I'd say, Brother, you're not feeling good. He said, No, I'm not at all. But he said, Me and my body had a talk before church. He said, I said, old Carcass, you need to go to God's house and praise him for saving a wretch like you. And he said, I'm here and I'm going to praise him. He said, I don't feel like it, but I'm going to praise him and I'll tell you what he did. Until Jesus took him home, he come and praise the Lord. And I'll tell you what that did to me. That stuck in my young heart as a reality that faith, my friend, is greater than my feelings. Sometimes my feelings say God's not alive. Sometimes my feelings say God don't hear my prayers. Sometimes my feelings say God's a thousand miles away. But my faith says, the Bible declares, I'll never leave thee nor forsake thee. My Bible says that he's a comforter, he's an ever-present help. My Bible says that he's real and he's near and I can trust him through all things, and so I'll just praise God anyhow. It's compelling to the lost. Let me say one last thought thing. This thing of praising God is the characteristic of the saved. It's compelling to the lost. It's complementary to the church. Look what he went on to say. And he started a sentence with and Telling me that this connects us to the sentence previous, and that we're still in the same line of thought. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. Here's a group of joyful believers, and God says that's where I'm going to put the other believers. Church family? God doesn't put his babies in a funeral home. He puts them where they'll be cared for. Where there's life and warmth. You know what I was reminded this week? Babies are twenty-four-seven responsibilities. They're cute. I mean you can't get no cuter. And they're precious. And they bring so much joy. I'll tell you what, they're a lot of work. A lot of work. And you know what? God says, you know where I'm going to add to the church Where that group's praising God. You get what I'm saying? Where they're alive. See, the praising of God is a symbol of life. It's a recognition. Those people are alive. See the difference between that crowd that gathered in formality in the temple to worship and that crowd that gathered in faith to worship is that that one crowd had life. They had warmth. You know, they were a living body. They were a living assembly. And it was shown by their expressions, by their praising of the Lord. It was evident that they had something in them that was real and genuine and true, and they said we we just love him and we can't keep it to ourselves. You know, the Welsh Revival broke out From the testimony of a teenage girl. uh are are are recognized, I guess, as catalysts for revival. But the real backstory, a little teenage girl got saved. I mean got so well and good saved that she just couldn't keep it all in. And in an evening meeting an opportunity was given for testimony, and this little girl stood up and and with that broken Gaelic language. She she just simply said, I love the Lord Jesus Christ with all my heart. And the and the record of that local church was that when those those words came out of that little girl's mouth Electricity fell from heaven. She was naturally, they said, shine backwards She was not someone who would ever speak out. In fact, she was one of those uh brother Andy Nisley up in New Brunswick, he's got a little well he's not a little boy now, he's a teenage boy. But when he was a little fellow, if you spoke to him Trying to think of his name, Eli. When you said, hey, Eli, he would turn and he would try to get in his mama's pocket and hide his little face I used to aggravate him. I said, you're as shy as a little raccoon. You trying to hide, and I'd pull his leg and aggravate him and try to drag him out of there and get his to look, but he wouldn't do it. He was shy. And she was shy, naturally retired. And she would never say a thing, but she got saved. And she said, sitting there, I could not help myself. I had to say, I love the Lord Jesus Christ. And God used that and opened the flood tides of heaven and poured out a blessing on that church. It's complementary to the church to praise God. Ian Paisley said most of our assemblies are so cold that if you were to bring a pail of milk in the back door it'd be ice cream by the time it reached the pulpit. Now buddy, that's cold. Sadly, some of our congregations sometimes are very cold. I, again, church, am not advocating or stirring or or or even interested in a manufactured praise. But I am talking about people who are committed to the Lord such in such a manner that they say, Lord, you've done something for me, and I want to praise you and thank you for it. A praise that is real and a praise that overcomes our feeling. A praise that says, you know what, I'm going to praise the Lord, regardless of how I feel, regardless of what's going on, I'm just going to praise the Lord. When you begin to praise him that way, God's pleased with that. And it it is complementary to a church. Hey, we've all been there. I visited some places, man, it was as dead and dry as last year's bird's nest. You sit down and and and it's cold. I'm not talking about the temperature. That's one thing that don't happen around here. It ain't ever cold in here. But the reality is, you you come in you know people come in, there ought not to be a coldness about the way we sing our hymns. Because we're not singing them just to be filling a moment in the service. We're singing them so that we can give Him praise. That choir, when that choir sings, they're not singing to entertain you or to amuse you or to fill again a portion of time in our service. They're singing so that they'll give praise to the God of heaven. who saw fit to reach down and save a bunch of sinners like you and me. We sit with our open Bibles and God speaks to our hearts from His Word. And we respond with an Amen or a praise the Lord. We're not doing so simply out of rotten routine. We're doing so because there's something in us alive and we're Want to express that appreciation and we're saying, God, I want to thank you and I want to praise you because you're worthy. And it may be you have to come in here and say, Now Lord, I don't feel a thing. The fact of the matter is, Lord, if I went by my feelings I'd have stayed home. And my feelings are telling me that this is th this is this is going off the rails and my feelings are telling me there's nothing but but but but sorrow ahead, but but I'm gonna I'm gonna go and I'm gonna do what you told me to do and I'm just gonna praise you, Lord. I'm gonna take these lips you gave me and this salvation you put in me and I'm going to thank you and give you the sacrifice of praise. from my lips and I'm going to praise you Lord because you're worthy. Boy, when you do that, I believe the God of heaven looks down and smiles. Boy, that pleases me. I believe he looks at a church like that and says, Oh, I I just want to I I love that. That's what they're doing up there in heaven right now. Do you know when you when you join in the praises of God, you're doing what's being done in heaven right now. And you're doing what you're going to be doing in heaven for all of eternity. Praising the Lord. Oh, may God make us that kind of church that praises God. It's always in order. It's always in order. Would you stand with me please, Father?