For the blood of our Savior. And I hope you're glad you're saved tonight. As I have been studying this book of Revelation, I I'm grateful that I know the Lord because reading it without knowing him would certainly fill your heart with terror. But because we know him, there's a whole different outlook. I want us to go to Revelation chapter 8 here again this evening. Revelation chapter number 8, and we're going to begin reading in verse number 1. And we'll read only down to verse number six. We have come to the seventh seal. And as we get here to the seventh seal, we uh come to that silence in heaven for the space of a half an hour. And we're coming to the trumpet judgments. If you had to put Revelation eight, and again I want to be very careful here to not be dogmatic like I've got it all figured out, because I certainly don't But I do believe that we are seeing the the ending of the tribulation. We're coming to that time of Jacob's troubles. We're coming to that time of great, great judgment. The first three and a half years of the tribulation are going to be terrible times on earth, but those last three and a half years are going to be like none we've ever known. And there's going to be that outpouring of wrath, and that outpouring of God's judgment upon this earth. I believe Revelation 8 is sort of the midpoint or the peak of that. In Revelation chapter 8, beginning in verse number 1, notice what the Bible says. And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the space of a half an hour. And I saw the seven angels which stood before God, and to them were given seven trumpets. And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censor. And there was given unto him much incense, that he should offer it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne. And the smoke of the incense which came with the prayers of the saints ascended up before God out of the angel's hand. And the angel took the censer and filled it with fire of the altar and cast it into the earth. And there were voices and thunderings and lightnings and an earthquake. And the seven angels, which have the seven trumpets, prepared themselves to sound. I believe what we find here in this seventh seal is a prelude of prayer, a pause, if you will, before this great wrath is poured out. I want us to pray we'll study these verses and ask the Lord to do his work in our hearts this evening. Heavenly Father, we bow in Jesus' name and thank you for the privilege that we have to be here. Lord, I thank you for each one of these dear folks who, Lord, have sensed the importance and have, Lord, with a burdened heart gathered in this place out of obedience and love for you. Now, Lord, we're praying that you will do the work that's needed in all of our hearts. Would you be our teacher? We confess we're in deep waters in which to swim. And we need, Lord, your wisdom, and we need your teaching and guidance. And may the Spirit of God lead us forth. Now, Father, have your way. Help us, Lord. Save the lost, reclaim the backslidden heart. And stir the Christian, Lord, with fresh courage. And we'll thank you for all that you do, for we pray and ask it in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. And we've come to this seventh seal, the final seal. Remember, we're interested in studying these sevens. There's a triplet of sevens in the Revelation. We have the seven seals that we've all we're coming to the end of the study of. We have looked at the seven, are going to look at the seven trumpets. And then the seven vials or seven bowls, if you will. And uh th these are all representative of the judgment of God. God is pouring out. God is unleashing. He is releasing something on this earth But when we come to this final seal, the Bible tells us that silence filled heaven. It's as if there's a calm before the storm. Have you ever noticed that when it's getting ready to storm real bad, it gets real still? There's just like a hush comes over the whole earth. And you think, I remember we used to when it was getting ready to come a bad snowstorm, the more calm it was You began to anticipate this is going to be bad. You know, one of these and and it wasn't a one-day snowstorm, it was saying snow three to five days, depending on when it got finished. But there would be a great calm. And I believe that's what we have pictured here. When that seventh seal is open, suddenly heaven's silent Suddenly there's a great pause in heaven. These seven trumpets, I'm not going to read them, I don't want to get started on them tonight, but when you read those seven trumpets and you see what's coming on the earth. And I don't believe they're figurative or allegorical. I believe they're literal judgments that are going to come. And when those seven trumpets sounds, boom, boom, boom, boom. This judgment's going to fall from heaven. And again, I want you to note it's going to be things that have been unseen ever before on the earth. Now what does that start with? It starts with the time of silence. This prelude of prayer If you're making notes, I want to look at three things tonight, very simply. Number one, the pause for preparation. In verses 1 and 2, again, he tells us that when he had opened that seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the space of half an hour And I saw the seven angels which stood before God, and to them were given seven trumpets. I want to remind you that God does nothing hastily. He does all things decently and in order. And heaven goes silent. Now, again, I believe we're in that middle part of judgment, that middle part of tribulation, and I believe that there's there's that great pause before the unleashing of fury and wrath. You'll notice the silence, the seven angels, and the seven trumpets. The silence was for half an hour. You say, preacher, do you believe that was half an hour, thirty minutes? Well, I tend to believe because I take the Bible literally, but I also know that God operates on a time s clock that's different than mine. The operations of the Lord are not according to my time X or whatever this thing from China's call. He he doesn't operate on our schedule, but heaven goes silent Can you imagine what I I I don't know about you, but when I was in trouble, I disliked silence more than words. I mean when when my dad got quiet, my heart went to shaking. Anybody else like that? I mean when things I mean when he had nothing to say, but he just had that steely, cold look And you knew something was coming. I believe as we look into heaven, John gets to see for just a few moments the silence of heaven and the stare of judgment from the throne as God's getting ready to unleash his wrath on this earth. We have the pause, the preparation, the silence, and then the seven angels. And by the way, that number is very significant here in the book of Revelation. Seven is God's number for perfection. Seven is God's number for that completeness. What God does, he does perfectly. And these seven angels stand ready. The seven seals have been unloosed. Now the seven trumpets will soon be blown. And you'll notice again the mention here that the seven angels which stood before God and to them were given seven trumpets. These seven trumpets are going to represent seven separate judgments. Now some folks try to blend these, the vials and the seals and the trumpets, and say they're all the same judgment, just s seven different descriptions. But I don't find that in the Word of God. I find that they are distinct and separate and different And so there's seven seals, and then there's seven judgments or trumpets and then seven vows. And all these represent something God is going to do, that He's going to release or pour upon this earth As the storm clouds gather and are about to break with heavy with judgment, there's a pause. And I believe there's a reason for the pause. And that's my second point, and that is the power of prayer. Because in the midst of this pause, there's an angel who comes with prayer. And we are looking into something rather, I'll confess. Rather mysterious and hard to discern, but somehow or another these prayers are gathered up and offered to the Lord. And it's as these prayers are being offered up That the pause in heaven is experienced, and I believe it's the tipping point here for judgment. You say, whose prayers are they? Well, it says the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar. If we read in in connection to what we've already studied, I believe these are tribulation saints. And as these tribulation saints are seeking God, their prayers become that that Crescendo or that tipping point of God's judgment. I want you to notice the prayers that are offered. It says that as the angel came and stood at the altar, having that golden censure, there was given unto him much incense, that he should offer it with The prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne. What are they praying? What are those tribulation saints praying about? I believe that they're praying those imprecatory prayers that are recorded in the psalm. I heard someone say this, and I tend to believe it, that the imprecatory prayers are not prayers fit for the age of grace. He said, what does that mean? Those impregatory prayers are the prayers for evil to fall, for God's judgment to come. In the age of grace, even our Lord prayed for those that crucified him. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. He taught us in his word that when you're done evil, you're to pray for those that use you and and who despitefully use you and persecute you. You're to pray and do them good. Nowhere in the New Testament am I encouraged to pray these prayers of judgment, but in that tribulation period. It is a time of judgment. And in that tribulation period, I believe those prayers are going to not only be uttered, but those prayers are going to be answered. Would you look at some of these with me? Let's go back to the Psalms real quick and look at some of these in precatory prayers. Start Psalm 35. Let me just read them right quick. Psalm 35, verses 4. Let me just focus on verses 4 to 6. Psalm 35 and verse 4 says, Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul. Let them be turned back and brought to confusion that divides my hurt. Let them be as chaff before the wind. Let the angel of the Lord chase them. Let their way be dark and slippery, and let the angel of the Lord persecute them. Imagine that prayer being answered. He's praying, God turn on them. Friend, listen, because Christ died on the cross, we live in an era where the grace of God is extended to every man. But there's soon coming a day when God will hear the utterances of these tried and tempted and troubled saints, and He will answer their prayers, and He will turn in fury upon those Christ rejectors. It's a sobering thing. Psalm fifty-nine is the next one. Look at Psalm fifty-nine, verse number thirteen. Consume them in wrath. Consume them that they may not be And let them know that God ruleth in Jacob under the ends of the earth, Selah. And at evening let them return, let them make a noise like a dog and go round about the city. Let them wander up and down for meat and grudge if they be not satisfied. He's praying again that prayer of judgment. Look at another one, Psalm 83. Psalm eighty-three and verses let's just start down about verse fourteen Psalm 83, 14 says, As the fire burneth the wood, and as the flame setteth the mountains on fire, so persecute them with thy tempest, and make them afraid with thy storm. Fill their faces with shame that they may seek thy name, O Lord. Let them be confounded and troubled forever. Yea, let them be put to shame and perish. One final prayer, Psalm 109. By the way, if you take the time, you will find a correlation in revelation in answer to each of these prayers I've just read. Psalm 109, let's read a lengthier part here, verse number six. The Bible says, set thou a wicked man over him and let Satan stand at his right hand. What does that sound like? Sounds like tribulation to me. Sounds like the man of sin to me. When he shall be judged, let him be condemned, and let his prayer become sin. Let his days be few, let another take his office. Let his children be fatherless and his wife a widow. Let his children be continually vagabonds and beg. Let them seek their bread also out of their desolate places. Let the extortioner catch all that he hath, let the stranger spoil his labor, let there be none to extend mercy unto him, neither let there be any to favor his fatherless children. Let his posterity be cut off, and in the generation following, let their name be blotted out. Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with the Lord, and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. Let them be before the Lord continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth. Because that he remembered not to show mercy, but persecuted the poor and needy man, that he might even slay the broken in heart. As he loved cursing, so let it come unto him. As he delighted not in blessing, so let it be far from him. As he clothed himself with cursing, like with his garment, so let it come into his bowels like water and like oil into his bones Let it be unto him as the garment which covereth him, and for a girdle wherewith is he is girded continually. Let this be the reward of mine adversaries from the Lord, and of them that speak evil against my soul Folks, I believe those prayers are going to be prayed in the tribulation and those prayers are going to be answered by the Lord. And those prayers are going to be the tipping point. They're going to have power in that tribulation period, and God is going to pour out his wrath. Those prayers that are being offered. And then notice the prayers as they ascend. We go back to the Revelation and we see in chapter 8. In verse number four, that the smoke of the incense, which came with the prayers of the saints, ascended up before God out of the angels' hands. Here's a solemn scene. We're looking into the glory world, and we're watching the prayers of God's people be part of God's plan. Now, I don't know how to stand here and tell you tonight that the prayers of God's people correlate with the plan of God, but they do. I don't know how to explain to you the mysteries that prayer has power and moves the hand of God, but it does. I don't know quite just exactly how to tell you all of the intricate details of what prayer can accomplish, but here's what I do know. We're shown not just here in the time of tribulation, but we're shown throughout the age of grace. that a praying people have power with Almighty God. And God moves in answer to prayer. And here the pause before judgment, the pause of preparation, and now the power of prayer is revealed. Those prayers are taken and reviewed, as one would say, before the throne. Those prayers are entering into the ear and heart of God And as those prayers go up, God's judgment is building up and ready to be poured out. Prayer does make a difference. The pause of this moment, the pause in this time, was to give that time of intercession, to give that opportunity for those prayers to be offered up. And here are those tribulation saints who are being persecuted and hounded and put to death and being hunted like animals and treated far worse? Suddenly, as they begin to cry, someone said, imagine, if you will, as they go into their rooms and lock their doors and fall on their knees and cry to their Father in heaven. And they cry, avenge us, O Lord. And we see, we've already read that how they're crying out under that altar, Avenge us, O Lord. And here's what God does: He says, Vengeance is mine. And the time has come now for him to bear his sword. He's no longer the lamb, he's now the lion. He's no longer the man on the cross, he's the God on the throne. He's no longer a man who's paying for sin. He's coming to judge man's sin. And now he's avenging and working upon this earth. And those prayers are powerfully intertwined with the mighty providence of God as he pours out his wrath upon this earth. I think sometimes we just sort of wink and nod and say prayer is a wonderful thing. But if we could just get a glimpse into that world and we could see what prayer does. You know, I was thinking the other day as you think about what prayer has done, you and I, I believe who are saved, are a product of prayer. Yes, we're a product of our choices, I know that, but I do believe we're also a product of prayer. I believe we're a product of prayer. You think about the prayers, you may not know all of them, but somebody's prayed for you. You might had a mother, a father, a grandmother, a grandfather, or maybe all four, and they were praying for you. And where you are today, my friend in heaven, you'll look back and say, They prayed for that. They prayed for that. Well, I'm so thankful I had just a few years to hear my granddaddy pray. And I can remember stepping up on his porch and him laying there in the bed. He was paralyzed from his waist down because of a uh a doctor mistake as they were doing surgery on p on on him and uh he never walked again after that but I can still hear him praying and hear him praying for us by name. God save him Now listen, he wasn't a Baptist. You'll forgive him for that, won't you? He was a primitive Methodist. You say, what's that? Well, they're ashamed Baptists, kinda Because they practiced immersion and they sprinkled too. They did they're a little mixed up on those things. But uh nevertheless, he was a primitive Methodist, but he was saved by the wonderful grace of God, and he would pray, God save my children. Didn't save my grandchildren. Didn't save their spouses. Didn't pray. I'll tell you something. He's prayed for my children and my children's children I've heard him pray those prayers. God, please save them. Lord, don't let them waste their lives. Help them to live for you. God, do something with them. Don't just let them spin their wheels. Make them count for Christ. And I'm here to tell you, I believe there's a God in heaven who hears everyone. And he's answering prayer, and he's working in accordance to his plan and in conjunction with our prayers. Church, when we meet in this place to pray, we're not wasting our time or just spewing out our breath. We are not look look, we are not just spinning wheels as a church. And making another night for you to come out and do something so that you don't sit at home bored. When we meet in this church to pray, I believe we're moving the hand of God. When we call upon the name of the Lord, there is power in that prayer, there is God's working through that prayer, and His providence and our prayers somehow marry together and get the job done. That's what God's ordained. God's designed it. This Wednesday night will be our missionary prayer meeting. And I'm here to tell you I don't know, and you don't know what God will do through your prayers for those missionaries. You don't know how God will help your prayers make a di a difference or make an impact. You don't know just what God might do. You say, and you know, I believe here's what, Charlie, I'm here's what I think the devil does. He tells you and me we're wasting our time praying. Just just you you just wasting your time. You're not seeing what you're asking God to do. You don't get to witness it. You're just you're wasting your time. Stop wasting your time. He's a liar, isn't he? You've never wasted your time in prayer. There's a God in heaven who's working. And I believe even in the tribulation the Lord says, Let me show you the power of prayer. Let me demonstrate to you that even in the tribulation, now you think about this. Even in the tribulation, God's little children on earth are crying out, and the God of heaven is saying, Gather up them prayers. I want you to get all in prayers together, and I want you to bring them to me. And one by one they pass through the ear of God, and God says, now I'm ready. They cried out for vengeance, and here comes my vengeance. And what follows is unbelievable. When those trumpets begin to blow, it literally becomes like hell on earth. There's such an outpure. Listen, I I believe men will be so blind and so darkened by sin that they'll blame it on everything but what it really the cause. They'll say, well, it must be the climate causing all this lightning from heaven. It must be something we're doing that's causing all of this judgment. Well, it is. It's your sin. But it's God's answering the prayer of those tribulation saints, and he's pouring out that wrath upon these people. My what a day What a day. Don't ever think your prayers are weak and you say, but preacher I I don't know what to say. I'm feeble in prayer. My words are are are not articulate and my uh my my my thoughts sometimes are are scattered but you did you notice that the angel took those prayers and he mingled with it that incense Someone said that it's a picture of the perfections of the intercession of Christ added to the prayers of his people so that what God hears is absolutely perfect. He takes groanings which you and I can't uh look, you you and I can b uh that all we might be able to do is just a a holy groan. Oh God But I'll tell you, there's a whole lot of words in that groan. And the God of heaven, through the Holy Spirit, can hear that and translate that and take that and answer that in a mighty way. You and I don't have to tell, you know, sometimes we pray and I get tickled sometimes listening to people pray, because it's like God needs details on what to do. You ever worked for somebody that was a micromanager? And they told you what to do, and then they looked over your shoulder and told you how to do it every step of the way? How many of you don't like that? Let me go on record. Neither do I. And and and listen, every every you know, d put your hand, do the you know God don't need that. Really, prayer at its highest is agreement with the will of God. It's not commanding the Lord to do anything but other than what He's already decreed. It's entering into a union and an agreement of the fact that God has already said, This is what I shall do. And that's what's happening here in this tribulation period. We see the power of prayer. And then notice with me thirdly the pronouncement of judgment. In verse 5, the angel took the censor and filled it with fire of the altar and cast it into the earth. And there were voices and thunderings and lightnings and an earthquake. And the seven angels, which had the seven trumpets, prepared themselves to sound. What happens in heaven is going to be seen on earth. What's decreed up there is going to be delivered down here. Now you and I need to remember something here that God is still ruling over all. The man of sin is going to pose as the great leader of man. The armies of the earth are going to assemble around him. The religions of the world are going to be molded into one as the economy and everything else, man's going to come under one head. And he's going to march in unified rebellion against a holy God. And yet, in the midst of that, God's still on the throne. And God's going to demonstrate, notice that fire. By the way, fire in the Revelation is almost always a symbol of judgment. And notice where he puts it, in the censor. The censor that held the prayers now holds the fire. The censor that once brought those those saints' most precious commodity, if I can call it that. Now are going to deliver great judgment on the earth. He gathers up the fire and the censor. By the way, the same God that shows mercy today is the same God who'll have no mercy then The same God who calls you today to come, whosoever will may come, is the same God who they're going to hide from, and they're going to cry out to the rocks and the mountains and say, Fall on us and hide us from the face of the wrath of the lamb uh of the Lamb of God, that wrath to come from that lamb. Oh hide us, hide us, they're going to cry That fire is a symbol of judgment. And notice as it falls to the earth, the Bible says he cast it into the earth. He's demonstrating here that what is delivered on earth starts in heaven. It comes from heaven If we could ever get a hold of that, I think we'd be a lot less nervous about all the happenings of our day. He raises up kings, he takes them down. He's in charge. He's in charge. Some of my dear friends up north are greatly disturbed and rightfully so over their current leader who was just put in office this week. I've tried to encourage the ones I've spoken with that God is still God. Don't matter who's who's who's there in Ottawa, uh there on Parliament Hill, that don't matter. What matters is who's on the throne in heaven. He still rules in the affairs of men. And even in the tribulation, he's ruling in the affairs of men. Even during the tribulation, watch now, as he cast down that fire into the earth showing his great rule. You know he's going to give the man of sin an opportunity. That man of sin not not an opportunity to be saved, but an opportunity As he gathers his following, as he leads his charge, as he gets together his army. He's going to give him a leash, if you will. But remember this, the devil's always on God's leash. He's never off leash. He's never off leash. Uh maybe you've you've had uh a pet that you know you you just couldn't trust it off leash I was telling my son, my brother moved across the hill. He lived on a ridge over there, could look this way. We lived on the ridge here and looked over there. And when he moved, he he said, I'll let you walk my dog over to the house. And I that's a venture for a little boy. Got to come down the mountain and up and around, up, back over to the house. Uh he had a dog named Lucy. You know what Lucy was? She was a basset hound. She was always slow and tired. And didn't seem to be a whole lot to handle. That's what we all thought. He said, Now just hook her up, son, she she just keep her on the leash. We don't trust her off leash, she might run away, and then we all laugh because we've never seen her run, actually. You know, if she did she'd trip on her ears because they were longer than her legs. And he said, now you walk her over. My brother got in his truck and he drove down the drive. I got Lucy and we're walking along And Lucy realized the truck's getting further and further and further and further away. And I don't know if she thought that we were getting permanently left behind or or or that riding in that truck was going to be better than walking with me. But she took off. And when she took off, man, I had that leash he told me now, so I wouldn't drop it or get daydreaming and and and just lay it down. He had wrapped it and tied it around my arm And when she took off, now listen, that dog had an advantage. It was low to the ground, so it had pulling gear. You know what I mean? And I'll tell you what, she plowed a whole lot of ground with my little body as she made her way after that truck. She could run. When it was over, my brother got up on the ridge to his house and he's looking over and he sees me kind of bouncing through the field. And he got back in the truck and he come down there and he and he got out of the truck and he picked me up off of the ground and I held my arm up and I had dust and dirt in my mouth and nose and ears. I said I still got to leash. He said, You sure do. Now she took me to school. I never I never walked her again. I didn't even I called her bad names when I went by her. I didn't like her. She's ugly. She did me bad. But here's what I'm saying The devil's on God's leash, and he's in control. He's in control. I want you to see that scene in heaven. It's important that you get that through the revelation that God is always in control. He's always on the throne. He does not give the throne up. He does not step aside and let another rule. He is on the throne. And he cast this fire into the earth. Now look at the fallout of this fire. Look what happens. Voices, thunders, lightnings, and an earthquake. These four things are mentioned three times. This one being the fourth Four times in total in Revelation. And they all have to do when judgment falls. They all have to do with that. When the judgment falls, there's the lightning, there's the thundering, there's the voices, and in this case, there's an earthquake. It's a signal of catastrophe to come. I believe it's literal. I believe when this fire falls to heaven, the fallout of that is going to be they'll hear the voices. What will the voices say? We don't know, it doesn't tell us. But they're going to hear the voices. And then they're going to hear the thunderings. Man, have you ever had it thunder so close to you that it just shook you down in your insides? Yeah. This is going to be thundering like you've never heard on earth. And the lightning? It's going to be uh uh the the the coming of this lightning i is is going to be that signification of God's judgment falling, and it's going to be unbelievable. And this earthquake, singular. Now in other places, and in fact, the the three other places, two of those are plural. They're earthquakes. This is an earthquake. One perhaps that is strong enough to shake the whole earth. And I'm sure the man of sin is going to have an explanation. I'm sure he's going to say it's some natural phenomena. When are we ever going to get beyond the fact that there's a God who rules nature? There's no such thing as Mother Earth or Father Time. There's just holy God. He rules this thing. He rules the nature. He rules over all the nature. And we're not being ignorant and saying, well, uh, you know, this doesn't cause that and so on. I realize there's cause and effect, but above it all is a God who still rules. He's ruling this thing. He's ruling that lightning. He's ruling those earthquakes. He's causing that earth to tremble. When Jesus died on the cross, the very earth shook At his death. Do we think it's going to shake any less when his judgment falls? This earth is going to tremble at its very core because the God of heaven has now shown his face of wrath. Ma, what a day. These visible effects will be witnessed by all on earth. But you'll notice something now as these trumpets start coming. As these trumpet judgments start blowing, man's heart gets hard. Man's defiance becomes strong. The rebellion rises up, and men believe that somehow or another Now they do not deny the existence of God. Now they wish to defy Him so as to dethrone Him. Three quick things to take home. So what can I take out of this text? Well, number one, I want you to know that prayer has power. I want you to see that there's a God in heaven who moves at the prayers of his people, and he hears us when we call. We have a window of opportunity right now. And my friend, make your prayers count. Use your prayer life for good. Go to God and go frequently and often and go fervently and say, help Lord, and look for the mighty hand of God's help to come. And reading about these great revivals in Scotland, my heart's been stirred that every time God moved, he set his people to praying. And his people prayed and God answered. Often it was long periods. Many times it was handfuls. In one instance, it was an elderly brother and sister that prayed, and they prayed for their little fishing village to be visited by the Lord. And God answered their prayers. God doesn't need a petition signed by many. He just needs some that mean business. And if we'll mean business, I believe we'll see business pick up. Prayer's powerful. Number two, I want you to see that sin's awful The judgment of God that's going to fall reveals the heart of God towards sin. My precious friend, we live in a day where sin is entertainment. We're amused by filth, ungodliness, and things that displease the Lord. I'm amazed as as we go along this journey how uh uh how we get close. We're not in the world, but the church just kind of trails awful close. And the worse the world gets, the worse the church gets. We're not as bad, but we aren't as good either. I I in reading a lot of this history, I I'm wondering if many of us could even make it in some of the churches of that day I'm just saying that God takes a dim view of sin. When you see what he's going to do to this earth, the wrath that's going to fall because of the sin of man, oh, it ought to make you understand the awfulness, the severity of sin. Sin is never a funny thing. It's never a light thing. It's never a trivial thing It moves out of the realm of just an oops. It's a reality. It's an offense against the holy God. And when we begin to understand what God's going to do, why is he pouring out judgment? Why is his wrath so fierce? Because man's sin is so terrible. The severity of sin. And then I want you to take home this third and final thought. That our time is limited. Our time is limited. We're living in mere moments. Before the unfolding of what we're studying here tonight. These are moments of grace that are given to us, that are open before us. It's an opportunity to make an impact on eternity. It's an opportunity to tell people how to be saved. It's an opportunity to live for Christ today. It's an opportunity to serve the Lord with all of our heart. It's an opportunity in preparation for what is to come. The day will come when we can't. When we can't tell people. The day will come when we'll not have that opportunity anymore. You know, we've heard it, and I fear sometimes that we hear it and we know it and we study it and we've thought about it, but one day, beloved, it's going to happen. One day it's going to come just as sure as we sit here tonight. One day the beginning, the beginning of the end will occur. One day. We don't know the day nor hour. But we're to live as a people as if it could be this day. We're to live with the understanding that the Lord is coming. Doesn't our very lives teach us that as we pass time here, what is our life? It's even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. Did you ever think you'd be as old as you are? And I'm looking at nobody certain? But honest, did you ever think you would be as old as you are? Did you ever think that? Did it ever cross your mind? Before Dad went to heaven, he called me one day and he said, Son, I walked by the mirror today, and I don't know who that old man was looking at me. And I had much more respect than to tell him who it was. But then he said this. He said, man, it happened fast. He said it seemed like yesterday. I was just a little boy climbing trees and mountains and swinging on them wild grapevines and acting like a wild monkey in those mountains. And now I'm an old man. And he said that, and it wasn't many weeks later he was in glory. Do you realize how quickly your life is passing? Now, beloved, please know that your life is for more than what this world says life is. There's more to life than just making a living. Live for God. Count for eternity. Point people to Jesus. Boy, when it's all said and done, an old preacher told me years ago when I first started preaching, he said, live so that you'll have no regret. Just live. Just give it all. Put it all out. And just live all for the Lord. I want to do that. I wish I could say I've done that. I've got a desire in my heart to do that. I don't want to get to the point where I can't and say, I wished I could. I want to get to the point where I say, Well Lord, I'm glad I did. Beloved, our time is short. Our lives are fleet or quickly passing. And listen, what we do for the Lord Jesus is really all that's going to matter. And we read here in the text that as we come to this conclusion of the seven seals, that as God's judgment falls, I'll tell you what, I'm glad I'm going to be on the right side of the judge. I'm glad I'm going to be uh as a friend of the king. I I'll not be one who's down here under the wrath of God. I'll be in the presence of the Lord. And be with him forever. Thank God for a salvation that's free and full and faithful to the end. Thank God for a Savior who's all that too. Oh beloved, it's good to be saved. And it it ought to stir our hearts tonight to hope to see others saved. And God use me to reach them with your good news. I believe there are divine appointments. I believe there are people perhaps will cross your path, Christian, brother, sister, cross your path this week. And you'll be that maybe, you may be that last red light to hell. You'll be that last stopping point who'll say you don't have to go there. You'll be that last warning that will echo into their ears and maybe reach down in their hearts and touch them. You'll be the last one You'll be the last opportunity that they have to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. May we be faithful to those whom we may meet, and it'll be the last time we have the opportunity to tell them. You say, preacher, that's awful serious. Well, it is serious. Being a Christian is a serious thing. Brothers, sisters, we're not on a cruise ship around here. This is the battleship, the old ship of Zion. And we're not sailing home just having fun. We're in a fight for souls. We're in a battle. And my friend, their men and women, their souls are hanging in the balance. Let's man our stations. Let's do our duty. Let's be present and accounted for. Let's yield ourselves completely. Lord, here am I. Lord, here am I. Just use me. Let's stand together, please. Father, help us