The Lord's been good to us, hasn't He? I want you to open your Bible, please, to Revelation 5. Revelation chapter 5 And I'd like to read the chapter in its entirety. It's another one of those short chapters I want to remind you that Revelation chapter 5 is a continuation of Revelation chapter 4. You might want to notice if you read through the book of Revelation that starting in chapter 5, every chapter from this point on starts with and Every chapter. And, and, and, and, and. So, what's the point of that? Well, it's a continual revelation. Remember, we started out looking at this truth, and I don't want us to lose sight of it. Revelation chapter 1, verse 1 says, the revelation of Jesus Christ. And as we continue to read this book and study this book, we find out that he is further and further revealed, more and more information. is revealed about Jesus Christ the Son of God. Now starting in chapter five we read like this, and I saw in the right hand Of him that sat on the throne a book, written within and on the backside sealed with seven seals. And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book and to loose the seals thereof? And no man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to look thereon. And I wept much, because no man was found worthy to open and to read the book, neither to look thereon. And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not. Behold the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof. And I beheld, and lo, in the midst of the throne, and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders, stood a lamb, as it had been slain. having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent forth into all the earth. And he came and took the book out of the right hand to him that sat upon the throne. And when he had taken the book The four beasts and four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of saints. And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof. For thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God. by thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation, and hast made us under our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne, and the beasts and the elders, and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands. Saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain. Receive power, riches, wisdom, strength, honor, glory, and blessing. And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, heard I saying. Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb forever and ever. And the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth forever and ever. What a chapter. Remember, Revelation chapter 4 and verse number 2 says this, and immediately I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne. I want you to think with me about this prelude to judgment. Chapter number five is the prelude to coming judgment. Judgment is soon to fall. In fact, when we get to chapter 6, we start off, and when I, or excuse me, and I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals The judgment of God has started. The seals are open, they're loosed. That white horse rides out. Those others begin to unfold, the seals, the bowls, the vials, the trumpets, these judgments are all being poured out. But before all that begins. There's a scene of worship around the throne. Someone said this is the worship before the war. And what a sight it is. And I hope the Lord will help us tonight to see truly what's happening here. Let's bow and pray and ask again for the Lord to help us. Our Father, we come in Jesus' name, and we thank you for the privilege to read this book. Lord, you've already told us in the beginning that there's a particular blessing that comes from reading this book. And Lord, we've seen that already. We thank you, Lord, for your faithfulness to speak to our hearts and for these few moments that we have together. Separate us from the cares and distractions of life. Those things that would get our minds and heart off thee. Help us, Lord, we pray to have an ear to hear what the Spirit saith. And Lord, would you undertake and do a work for your great glory and honor? Lord help me to preach the word as if never to preach again. Hide me behind the cross. Help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. Undertake and meet every need, and God will be careful to give you the glory, for our eyes are upon thee. Lord, tune our hearts to be able to worship as these are. And Lord, we'll thank you for what you do, for we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to remind you again that in Revelation chapter 5, we're still at the throne. We're still gathered around the throne. And at this throne, there's a scene, there's a situation, if you will, unfolding that To be quite honest with you, sometimes I just feel like closing the door and quietly backing out. It's such a holy sight Here is the worship that that is taking place. By the way, what I've read, if you're saved, you're going to experience one day. Everything I just read, you're going to be right there and be an eyewitness to what John has already seen. But as we look at this chapter, we find that there is a question answered, and the question is this: who 's worthy? Who's worthy? The book is seen, and the question is asked, and thank God before we get to the end of the chapter, the answer is set before us. But who's worthy? Who's worthy to take the book? I want to divide this chapter into three simple statements. We see first the weeping in verses 1 to 4. We see the wounded lamb in verses 5 to 7, and then we see the worship of verses 8 to 14. So let's start by looking at this weeping that takes place. The Bible tells us in verse 1 that I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book, written within, and on the backside sealed with seven seals. I want to remind you tonight that there is a throne that is set in heaven. And there is one who is sitting on that throne. He's on the throne tonight. And as he's seated there on the throne, John turns, and what John sees begins to trouble his heart. He sees this book. You say, Preacher, what is the book? Well, if you go on and study what he does with this book as he unleashes or unlooses the seals, I believe it is the title deed to the universe. Let me say it like this. Whoever holds the book has the right to rule. Whoever's got the book in his hand is the one who's got his hand on the whole universe. He takes that book in his hand. We see that book. And by the way, as he begins to open those seals and to loose those judgments, we begin to realize that he is in control. He's in charge. You know something as as you and I face the world we're living in, it's good to know that there's a throne set. There's one seated on the throne, and there is one who holds the book in his hand, and he's worthy to lose the seals. Don't you think for a minute that things are running helter-skelter? Don't you think for a minute that things are off track, that things are out of control? that somehow or another the devil's overpowered the Lord and she's all coming apart. Just know this, there's one on the throne There's one seated in heaven. There's one holding a book in his hands. There's one unloosing the seals. There's one who's in control. Thank God for that. Thank God for that. But we see the book. And then in verses 2 and 3, I want you to see. The question is posed here. He said, I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book and to loose the seals thereof? Who's worthy? Now, would you notice that he didn't ask who's willing? He said who's worthy. Understand this. There are a lot of willing individuals who are not worthy. History's full of Hitlers Stalins. Go down the list. Willing. Alexander the Great. History's full of individuals who were willing. They wanted the book Was it Alexander the Great that sobbed himself to sleep because of the reality had no more to conquer, no more territory to overcome? Oh, he wanted power. Folks, the great cry of this hour is for power. The great struggle for this hour is power. Men want power. Men won't rule. They want to be in charge. They want to hold the book that holds the seven seals. They're willing, they're willing, but here's the problem, they're all unworthy. They're all unworthy. They're not worthy to hold such a book. The Bible says here that no man in heaven nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book. Now watch this, neither to look their own. They weren't worthy to take it in their hands, they weren't worthy even to look at it, let alone hold it. They weren't worthy. Or they might be willing. You might have some strong-minded individual say, Give me that book. I want to hold the keys of the universe, the title deed to the universe in my hand. But they're not worthy. What a question. I want you to notice in verse number four, and I wept much. By the way, mark it down, this is the first time you see tears in heaven. It's the first mention of tears in heaven. John wept. John said, I'm weeping over this. Nobody's worthy. Nobody's worthy. He said, I wept much because no man was found worthy to open and to read the book, neither to look thereon. What a sight. John, as a man of the earth, is sobbing over the fact he can't see anyone worthy who's able to take the book. is weeping in heaven. I do believe there's going to come a time when the saints of God give an account. I believe there's going to be tears in heaven again. The Bible tells us there's going to be some tears. There's going to be some weeping there. There's going to be weeping over opportunity lost. There's going to be weeping over lives that are wasted. As dear brother used to say, you can have a saved soul and a wasted life. There's some folk going to answer for that. They're going to have a wasted life. There's going to be some tears. But here John's not weeping for himself. He's weeping over the fact there's he he can't see anyone worthy. Now let me say this. Just because you can't see one worthy don't mean there's not one who's worthy. Just because it's hidden from your eyes don't mean that he doesn't exist. God's about to help John and to straighten him out. And friend, listen, every once in a while I need the Lord to help me to see things like they really, really are. We see the wounded lamb in the beginning of verse number 5. I want you to notice what was done here. One of the elders saith unto me, Weep not. Look at the next statement. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seals thereof. It sounds like to me he's talking past tense. He's saying that he's prevailed. He's worthy. He's the one who's got in control. Now John couldn't see it at first, but God let him see it later on. You know, there's a lot of times we need the Lord to adjust our vision. The things we can't see. And listen, he was worthy all along. He had the book in his hand. He was ruling all along. And sometimes we get on the other side of something and we say, oh, I realize now, Lord, you were right there. You were still in charge. You were on the throne. You were in control. But this wounded lamb, and I want you to notice the three things here. He says, first, he's the lion of the tribe of Judah. Secondly, he's the root of David. And thirdly, he's the lamb as it had been slain. Now the elder revealed Jesus twofold. First, he said he's the lion of the tribe of Judah. He's that majestic Messiah. One of Jacob's sons was told in Genesis 49, 9, 49, verse 4 , chapter 49, verse 9. That that he he would be a lion, that his descendants would be a lion. And he was speaking here of Christ. He was prophesying of the Lord's coming. He was saying, through this line, this kingly line of Judah, you're going to have a son. He's going to be the lion of the tribe of Judah. Then we see he tells John, he says he's the root of David. In 2 Samuel chapter 7, verse 16, David's throne is promised to be established forever. He said there's going to be a descendant sitting on the throne, and he'll be on the throne forever. Well, listen, men live and die. David's descendants were born, had a time of leading and ruling, and then they died and they buried him, and another one took his place, and another one took his place, and so on until Shiloh comes. Until the Lord Jesus is born. And friend, when Jesus was born, David's final son, if you will, was born and and is going to be enthroned. He's the root of David. He's the true rightful king who will sit on the throne. I believe with all of my heart, we'll study it later, that he'll literally rule on this earth. He will rule, the Bible says, with a rod of iron. We're not going to have corrupt government when Jesus rules. We're not going to have lopsided ideology when Jesus rules. We're not going to have rebellion or anarchy or any such thing. Listen, brother, sister, he's going to rule and reign and what a day that's going to be when King Jesus sets on the throne I'll tell you what, he's going to show us how it should have been all along. What a day that's going to be. He's the root. Now, verse 6. John turns to see who that is. And when John turns, remember John's the man of the earth. I beheld, and lo in the midst of the throne, the four beasts, and the midst of the elders, stood a lamb. Do you see that? He said, When I looked, I didn't see the line. When I looked, I didn't see the root of David. When I looked, I saw the lamb. A lamb as it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent forth into all the earth. It's important that you understand you can't see the lion nor the root of David until you first see the Lamb. It all starts with the Lamb. John's declaration was, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. You can't see the line and the root of David until you see the Lamb of God in his saving power demonstrating his his ability to wash and cleanse and put your sin away. We see that Lamb. Of all these three images, the lion, the root of David, the lamb From this point on, throughout this whole rest of this book, the emphasis is now on the Lamb. There's no emphasis on the lion anymore. There's no emphasis on the root of David. The emphasis on the lamb. This is the crowning title. That Jesus wears throughout the book. He's the Lamb. Do you realize that the Lamb, Jesus as the Lamb, the Messiah as the Lamb, is only used two times in the Old Testament? It's used two more times in the Gospels, one time in the book of Acts, and one time in 1 Peter. But don't miss this. From Revelation 5 onward, 28 times is he called the Lamb. And by the way, he's just not any old lamb. Do you know the word that's used there is for little lamb? A little lamb. Not a full-grown lamb, but a little lamb. A wee lamb, a small lamb, an infant lamb And I love the beauty of this because the devil pictured as a great dragon is defeated by God's little lamb. That just shows that the power of God is greater than the power of hell. He may be God's little lamb, but he's an awful mighty lamb. Oh, listen, he's the lamb that was slain, as it were, it says. Notice this imagery here, this imagery here, he's got seven horns. You're going to hear a lot about horns in the Revelation. Those horns represent authority, power, ruling. Seven horns. It is a picture, seven being God's number of perfection. It speaks of the perfect omnipotence, the perfect authority and rule of the Lord Jesus. There he is, the Lamb. Not just any lamb, but the Lamb that, as Isaiah said, who's the Prince of Peace. The government shall be on his shoulders. We're talking about that lamb that has the ruling authority over everything. And listen, when the man of sin holds sway on earth, the lamb's still going to be sitting on his throne. When when all breaks loose on earth, literally, and and and all of the horrors and tragedy that Satan can spew forth. And then the judgment of God falls, the Lamb's still gonna be on his throne. Why? Because he's the perfect ruling lamb. Oh dear friend. What a Savior. And what a sight we're beholding here. Notice it says he has seven eyes. Again, speaking here of imagery, I've seen paintings. I had a dear friend who studied the revelation and he tried to paint the things that he saw, and he came up with some mighty weird things. You try to paint a lamb with seven horns and seven eyes. That's strange. Seven spirits. And I don't believe the emphasis is on that. The emphasis is on the reality. That as the seven being the number of perfection, that He's a God who sees all and knows all. He's not blindsided Listen, the Antichrist is not going to blindside God. It's not going to be a coup It's not going to be an uprising that was unexpected. It's not going to be an undermining that suddenly takes him off guard. Oh no. He's got the seven eyes of omniscience. He knows all, sees all. Beloved , the darkness don't hide anything from him. He sees everything as God's Lamb. Then the seven spirits. And I believe, again, we've already seen this twice already, but the seven spirits speak of his perfect deity. And in this instance, I believe it speaks of the omnipresence of God. David wrote, Where could I go? He said, If I make my bed in hell, thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning, fly the uttermost part , thou art there. I'm telling you, there's nowhere you can go that God is not He's everywhere. The perfection. These triple sevens represent the perfect God of heaven who manifested himself as Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. A God who is replete in perfection, who ha who who needs nothing, you can add nothing to him, take nothing from him. He's absolutely perfect. Everything about him is perfect. When they try to describe him with imagery, they have to do it in such a way that your mind says he's perfect in omniscience, he's perfect in omnipresence, he's perfect in omnipotence. Everything about God's perfect because he's the Lord. And as this great perfect one, notice this verse seven, he came, he took the book out of the right hand that uh right hand of him that sat upon the throne. And he holds that book. John was weeping. He's about to start worshiping. John's been weeping over who's worthy. John 's been wondering who's who's able to who who does who really holds the key to the whole affair Who has the title deed to the universe? Who's really in charge? If you're to be honest, a lot of the struggle in your heart and mind is over the fact of trying to figure out who's really in control. Who's really in control? How many of you have come to the stark realization you're not? And I'll be frank with you, sometimes that's bothersome. We think we're in control. I remember shortly after my mother went to heaven, I was on a moose hunt in the highlands of Cape Britain. And I remember laying there that night in my tent and thinking about how suddenly she left this world and how just seeming my whole world was just upside down in many ways. And the realization settled in my heart, you're not in control. God's in control. He controls life, he controls death. He's in charge of the beginning and the ending and everything in between. He's the Alpha and the Omega. He's the one who's really in charge. And you know what a settling thing that is for a troubled heart to know this. God is in control. He's got the book. He holds the title deed. He's not in a r do you notice this? He's not in a wrestling match match with the devil to hold it. He's not trying to, he's not struggling, you know, give it to me, give it to me, give it to me. No, he holds it. He holds it as the king of all kings. He holds it as the Lord of all Lords. Oh, listen, may God write that in our hearts tonight and help us to see that He does hold the book. Now I want you to look at the worship. Beginning in verse number eight, it says, And when he had taken the book. Now that tells me that the taking of the book is what incited the worship. It was the realization he's in charge. He's worthy. He's the only one that's worthy. He's the one that is worthy. And when he took the book, notice her had taken the book. The four beasts and four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of saints. I want you to notice something about this worship. And by the way, you're going to find out as we study on through Revelation, there's a whole lot of worship in heaven. In fact, it's the principal employment of the occupants of that grand place. Always worshiping. We saw them in chapter 4. They just got done worshiping. They just were enjoined in worship and praising the Lamb and praising the Lord and praising God. And and now here they are and the Lamb's got the book. And you know what they're doing? They're getting ready to worship again. If worship bothers you, heaven's gonna be awful uncomfortable. If worship gets to you, you're gonna have to realize that's that's a principal part of what we do in heaven. We are going to be occupied. And by the way, again, from this point on, the attention is on that lamb. They're worshiping the lamb. Notice the prayers that are involved here. Those golden vials full of odors. You ever think about that? How precious must be the pleas of God's people? That He would bottle them up. That he would bottle them up and in this sacred scene he's going to release them like some like like like like some incense that's going to lift up to the throne. Those golden files full of odors. They tell me that there's something about sound that once it is created, that it never ends. It just goes on. It it it even though you cease to hear it, it continues to reverberate. You think about this, every plea you put up, God's captured it up there, and he's got it in the Bible. He somehow or another assembl or gathered it and accumulated it so that when we come to this this precious scene, the people of God, those they're going to open those vials and heaven's going to be full of those pleased. And I'll tell you why we're going to praise him, because we're going to be up there realizing all of those pleas how they've been answered in God's way and in God's time and for God's glory. We're gonna we're gonna I believe we're gonna see then that there's many a thing we prayed for that we didn't think God answered, but he answered. We just didn't realize it Perhaps he answered in a way that we didn't quite expect. But anyway, those prayers are a part of the worship here in this holy scene. Didn't notice their praises. Verse 9 says they sung a new song. Now, you ever think about this? This is a 2000 , be a 2,000-year-old song if we were to sing it now. Because it's written right here. We know the contents, we've just never sung it before. It says they sung a new song, saying. Here's the words of the song. By the way, you might want to practice it. If you're saved , be good to know it forehand, wouldn't it? They sung a new song. What did they say? Thou art worthy. To take the book, to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. And hast made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. Do you know what that song's made up of? It's made up of his worthiness, his work, and his wonders. Notice that song is focused on him. By the way, it's awful good if we just sing songs that are focused on him. I mean let's be honest. I I believe uh just listening and thinking about these hymns we sung tonight, you know what made them all so special? Because they focused on him. They focused on him. I confess while we were singing that song, Oh, I want to see him and look upon his face. I was watching some of you. I think some of you really meant that. I believe you were singing it like you can't wait to see him I I think some of you were singing it with the expectation that one day it's going to happen to you and you just can't wait for it to occur. Oh listen. Uh as as we think about this song that they're singing up there, they're singing of his worthiness. Thou art worthy. Thou art worthy. Do you notice the focus is on the lamb? The focus is on the lamb. They're saying, hey, the lamb's worthy. The lamb's worthy. The lamb's worthy. They focus on his work. They say you've redeemed us to God by your blood. They sing about it. Listen, you might get over your salvation down here, but you won't get over it up there. You may start just kind of yawning and moaning about being saved, but I'll tell you up there, it'll be such a reality to you that you're going to sing his praises for all of eternity because you've been redeemed to God by his blood. Oh, what a savior. What a savior that he would go to Calvary. What a savior that he would shed his blood for a sinner like me. What a savior that he would endure the cross and despise the shame. But hallelujah, he sat down at the right hand on the throne of God. He rules, O Lord, what a savior thou art. They're singing about his work, and then they sing about his wonder. The wonder that he made us under our God, kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. Ma what a wonder. And you know, when you think about what he's done, he says, out of every, out of every kindred. Tongue. People. Nation. That's the heart of God. But but and and one of the reasons is it's the heart of God. Every tongue, every people, every nation Every kindred. God would have all men to be saved. Every, every man. Listen, the the heart of God is for the the the the souls of the world. Mankind. He he so loved the world. And what a wonder it is out of every tribe there's gonna be a soul. Every kindred. Imagine that I think the most international crowd I've ever worshiped with was in Carleton Baptist Church in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. And I think at at that particular service, one service we had 19 nationalities, at another one there were 27. The man behind me was from an African country. I forget where he was from exactly, but I didn't understand a word that man was saying, but he sure was enjoying the Lord. And on on the over here I was sitting where Charlie about where Charlie is. He was behind me. There was a gentleman sitting here. He was a he was from France and uh he his he he didn't know English. He was speaking uh French, he was singing in French. And and I was I was thinking, listen to this. And and in a in a way the singing was almost confusing Because you had all these and and they were singing in their own language. Everybody was singing their own language. If you'd walked in there not knowing what was going on, you'd think these people were speaking in tongues. Well, they were speaking in languages, right? But but they were singing in their own. But I thought, you know something? Though that's disconcerting to my ears, the ears of God can handle it and translate it properly. He was hearing his praises, lifted up by all these voices. And I thought, that's just a weak glimpse of what heaven's going to be like. In heaven there's not going to be, according to what John saw here, every kindred, every tongue, every people, every nation, there's going to be someone there who's been saved by the wonderful grace of Almighty God. Ma, what a scene. What a scene. I want you to see this. There's a proclamation starting in verse eleven. And I beheld, and notice this, I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne. Now, back up here in verse 9, we saw that redeemed crowd. Verse eleven, we see angels. Please listen to me tonight. The redeemed are not angels. Your loved ones who are in heaven who are saved are not angels. Now that might be a comforting thought, or it might be something that somehow or another soothes you, but know this, it's not true. Angels are created beings. Hebrews tells us they are created to minister to the saints. God has made them. They're exclusive. They're special. They're set apart, if you will. And in heaven he differentiates between the two. Here's that great out of every Kindred, tribe, tongue, nation. Here's that great group of the redeemed. And then John turns and he sees a number. And by the way, have you noticed that he never numbers the redeemed, but he does number the angels He never numbers the redeemed in the revelation, but he does number the angels. And when he numbers the angels, look at this number. He says there 10,000 times 10,000 and thousands of thousands. You say, how many is that? Whole bunch. That 's the only answer I got for you. It's a great big number of them. And God alone knows it, and he said, That's how many of them there are. And John said, When I beheld them, listen what they said, they said verse 12, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb. Different singers, but same song. Different voices, but the same message. Lord, you're worthy. Worthy is the lamb that was slain to receive power, riches, wisdom, strength, honor, glory, and blessing. Notice that that proclamation as they extol the worth of that lamb. You remember we started with this question, who's worthy? The redeemed said, worthy. The angel said, Worthy. In the mouth of two. Let a thing be established. Here's two witnesses. He's worthy. Who's worthy? Jesus is worthy. That lamb is worthy. And then not only do we see his worth extolled, but we see this worship enjoying. Now this blesses me. Every creature. Every creature heaven, on earth, under the earth, such as in the sea, and all that are in them, heard I say Now, God gave John ears to hear what we can't hear. He heard them. You see, what's he talking about? Every creature. Every creature. You say, what do you mean by that? Here's what I mean. I believe every living, breathing thing. Is saying, He's worthy. He's worthy. You know, I I've often thought as the little birds come round and sing, I'd like to know what they're saying. Oh, I know scientists say they sing one song to attract a mate. They sing another to show their dominance over territory. They sing another song to locate or identify that that food's been found and and all of those things, and I reckon all of that serves a purpose. But I really would like to know what they're saying Wouldn't it be something to have ears to hear them? The very first bird that sings in our neck of the woods in the morning is a Carolina Wren. It's a beautiful little song. I grew up hearing them sing around our doorstep. And they sing, they're the first bird, just at the crack of light, just as soon as you start getting Uh uh we did a light, those Carolina wrens start singing. They got a beautiful little trio that they go through. And and it's almost uh a a three-word trio. And I often lay there and think, I wonder if they're saying, Praise the Lord, Praise the Lord, praise the Lord. John heard him say it. John heard don't listen, you say, I don't believe that. Well that's why you're so sour. You don't believe nothing If you'd lighten up and believe what the Bible says, or liven up and believe what the Bible says, you might get a blessing or two. Listen, every creature. Every created thing is going to lift its little voice. And John said, I'm going to hear them. He heard them. Here's what they said. He said, I heard saying. Blessing. Honor, glory, and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne and under the Lamb forever and ever. That's what he heard. He heard the birds of the air sing the song of worship. He heard the fish of the sea. By the way, they tell us You know when you go in the sea, they used to think it was a very silent place until we developed technology to hear what it is that's going on. And the and the the the echolocation of the whales and other uh fish and and and the the communication that's going on They tell me now that even the stars emit a sound. They give off a sound that reverberates into the heavens. Well, we're just catching up to the Bible. Because the Bible says John heard them all. And what John hear them say, they weren't griping and moaning and complaining. By the way, when we're up in heaven, there's things still happening down here on the earth. Life's going on When the church gets taken out of here, there's some things happening here on the earth. The sun's going to rise, the moon's going to give off her light, the stars. The birds and the animals and all of that's going to continue to live. There's going to be, at least for three and a half years, there's going to be a sense of everything's wonderful. There's going to be a sense of that. And yet John says, here's what I heard him doing. I heard him saying, you're worthy. You imagine those great big whales. You ever seen a whale out in the ocean? Man, they're terrified when they come swimming alongside the boot. You're like, that's bigger than a bus. All he's got to do is just bump and we're done We were up in Bar Harbor and and went on a well-watching tour in a storm. And I I remember we went out in the harbor there and then we went a little further. He said, We're going to go, I forget how many miles out into the Atlantic. And he said, We're going to go out here, there's there's some whales that are that are passing through and uh it's gonna be a good day to spot 'em And we got out there and it got really rough and and it was rough enough that he wasn't willing to take the chance and he came over there and came and said, Well, I I apologize, we're going to cancel this today and we're going to go back in, but we're going to go by a special island And we're going to let you see all the seals that are laying on that island. And I don't know, there's several hundred of them things. Look like great big bloated sausages to me laying out there on the on the rocks and what have you And so I I did good up until he said, now I want both sides of the boat to be able to see it was pretty well packed. And he said, I'm going to go in circles, and I'm going to let you just let you look at them and take your pictures. First circle, I was okay. Second circle, my legs started getting a little wobbly. Third circle, I was done. I was green. I'm tell you talk about green. I've never been that color in my life and hope never to be again. Boy, how sick But out there in that ocean, man, you you talk about the the these large uh uh uh uh whales and other things that live out there, and John said, I heard them singing. I heard them singing Now it ought not to be a surprise to you. The Bible says the whole creation groaneth and travaileth. You know what it's looking forward to? Deliverance. Taking away the penalty and curse of sin. Oh, I'm glad there's gonna come a day when that's gonna be lifted. I wonder in the millennial if the Lord's going to let us hear them say what they're saying. Wouldn't it be something get up in the morning and Robin's sitting on the branch outside your window and it's singing praises to God? And you just join right in and sing with it? Now look, I don't have to have my glasses on, some of you think I've lost my mind. I believe it's gonna happen. I I believe that everything God gave breath. The Bible says, let everything that hath breath praise the Lord. Let everything listen, if you got breath in your little lungs, you ought to use it to praise the Lord. And there's coming a day. John heard it. John heard it. It was communicated, translated, in his ear. He heard everything. Everything was given glory to God. Then notice verse 14. And the four beasts said, Amen. Now look, if you have a problem with saying amen in church , Take it up with the book. They did it here. Said Amen. That's right. Amen, brother. That's what they did. They said, Amen. And then notice this, the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him. Don't miss that, please. That liveth forever and ever. That's who they worshiped Now, I want to caution as we move now into the next chapters. I want to caution you and remind you, don't get your eyes off the lamb. Every eye is on the Lamb. Every knee is bowed before the Lamb. Every individual's on their face before the Lamb. Everyone's saying the Lamb's worthy, the Lamb's worthy, the Lamb's worthy. Listen, be careful about getting your eyes somewhere other than the Lamb. Don't get your eyes on the trumpets and the bowls and the vials. Don't get your eyes on the Antichrist. Don't get your eyes on the devil. Don't get your eyes on the things that are going on on earth Don't get you listen, there's a lot of people that's caught up looking for signs they forgot to be looking for the Savior. They've got to look in for so many different things. Be careful about looking at yourself. Be careful about looking at others Be careful about looking at what's to come. A lot of people want to get ahead of God and say, Well, I know what that means. How many books have been written in the last, at least in the last uh times I've been studying the Bible twenty, twenty-five, thirty years, that were written and said, I'll tell you what, here's 88 reasons Jesus come in 1988. He didn't come. Don't you remember? Some of you might remember hearing this when they said old Gorbachev was the Antichrist, that his birthmark that he had on his head You it if you zoomed in and and enhanced it and overlaid it, he had 666 wrote on his head, he wasn't antichrist. You know what happens? You can get so caught up looking at things. Looking for signs. Looking for the things to come. Trying to tell the, trying to forecast what's going to happen. Trying to say, well, I know what that means. I know what that means. I've got a dear friend. Every time something happens in the political world, I know what that means. I know what that means. He's got it all figured out. I'm going to tell you something. Be careful about that. Because you don't have anywhere in the Bible you're told to be keeping your eyes on the signs, but you've got a whole lot of Bible telling you keep your eyes on the Lamb. Just keep looking for the Lamb. Just keep looking to the Lord. Just keep looking at Him. Listen, don't get caught up looking at others. Men will fail and falter and fall out of the traces. There'll be individuals who serve God today that won't be serving him tomorrow. Don't get your eyes on them. Don't get your eyes on the trouble that's coming because there's a whole lot of it gathering out on the horizon. Don't get so worried about what you're going to eat, what you're going to wear, where you're going to live. God said he'll take care of all that stuff. Seek you first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Don't be looking at all that stuff. Don't get to looking at yourself awfully hard because you're nothing but a frail flawed human being. Just get your eyes on the Lamb. Get to looking to the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the answer now. He'll be the answer tomorrow. He was the answer yesterday. Just look to the Lamb. Look at this scene in heaven. All this stuff's happening down here on earth, but they're just looking at the Lamb. They're worshiping the Lamb. They're walking before Him saying, He's worthy. He's worthy. He's worthy. Listen, it doesn't matter what turn the economy takes, it doesn't matter what happens in the political realm. It doesn't happen it listen, it doesn't matter what happens on the international realm. Keep your eyes on the Lamb of God. Understand he's worthy. Keep looking to the Lord. Don't let the devil sidetrack you. Now we're gonna look at some stuff. God gets real honest about some things that are coming, and it's not good. Suffering 's going to fall on this earth like you've never. We can't my vocabulary is going to fail to describe what we're going to see But the Lamb's still gonna be on the throne. He's still gonna be worthy. You know what you and I are gonna be engaged in? Worshiping the Lamb. Worshiping the Lamb. Worshiping the Lamb Don't get your eyes off the Lamb. Keep looking to the Lamb. He's the worthy one. Listen. I believe this is what gets us through is God's people. That's why Hebrews tells us looking unto Jesus, the author and the finish of our faith. It's critical. It's critical. Oh, we'll study the vials and the bowls and the trumpets and we'll look at all the judgments that's professed to come. But I don't want to lose sight of the Lamb. Remember, it's a revelation of Jesus Christ. And every chapter goes, and, and And, and, you know why? Because he wants you to stay back here where you started. The revelation of Jesus Christ. And, and, compared to this, this is small potatoes. Compared to who Jesus Christ is. He's worthy. Lord, keep our eyes there. Father, thank you for the privilege to pray, your kindness to us. Lord, I pray if there's someone here