And verse number nineteen. I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please. And we'll honor the reading of God's Word. These are eight little words that are very powerful. This is truly a mouthful in these few words. But our Bible states this: we love him because he first loved us. Father, do help us now. We sure need to hear from heaven. And I pray, Lord, you'll undertake for the need of every heart. Lord, help me to rightly lift up Jesus and hide me behind the cross. And I pray you'd just be pleased with our time together. And Lord, for what you do, we'll be careful to give you the glory, for our eyes are upon thee. Lord, we sit like little birds in the nest needing food from above. And I pray, Lord, you'll just fill our hearts. And God, we'll thank you for what you do because we pray and we ask all these things in Jesus' strong name And God's people said Amen. You can be seated. We're looking at these words, these eight words that make up this verse. We love him because he first loved us. We read verses uh seven to nineteen this morning. And made the statement that this verse, verse 19, is the conclusion of all that was previously said. It's the practical outcome of God's powerful love. I looked this morning for just a moment at the people identified. We looked at the we. The we. I I hope that you want to be one of the we that are in this text. But this evening I want to look at this priority magnified. There's a priority. We're going to move to the next word. That word's love. We love. We love Him because He first loved us. There's several verses of Scripture I want you to see this evening because I believe they'll help us understand just how important this thing of loving the Lord is. Do you know you can have a form of Christianity without any love for the Lord? I said a form of Christianity. There's all sorts of forms. Paul warned Timothy to avoid that form of godliness that denies the power thereof. Now there's a formal Christianity that has no love for the Christ of it. There is a form, there's a form of fundamental godliness. There's a All sorts, we could put all kinds of labels on these forms. There's all sorts of forms. But God's not interested in the form. He wants your heart to have a passionate love for him. We love him. We love him. That's the priority that is magnified. You can do a lot of things as a Christian or or under the name or guise of Christianity. And you remember what Paul did? He listed there in 1 Corinthians 13 all of these fantastic things that a person could do. And he said, if you have not charity, it's all nothing. I mean, you can give your body to be burned. You can give all of your things away. You give all your possessions away. You can speak with the tongues of men and angels. You can have abilities and all sorts of skills and opportunities, and all of that can be utilized, but yet if it does not come from a heart of love for Jesus Christ, it means nothing. We can love our church and not love Christ. I I think it to be honest, a lot of people have church anity and not Christianity. They they love their church and rightly so. They love their people, they love one another, they love uh all the things that are associated with it and attached to it, but none of that Is as important as loving the Lord. We love Him We can love our our persuasion, if you will, or our our our particular script. We can say, well, I'm an independent fundamental missionary supporting devil hating Bible carrying You name all the rest of it, Baptists, and and and still not love Jesus. We love Him. It's awful easy to have all sorts of substitutes and and all sorts of things that come creeping in and we say, well, you know, I I really love that. I I love that way. I know Jeremiah said to stand ye in the way and ask for the old path, wherein is the good way and walk therein? But you remember he said, stand ye in the ways. And then he said, Ask for the good path, that good way. There's a lot of ways that are just, and they might be even old ways, but they're not the good way. You say, preacher, what are you driving at? I'm driving at that if we don't love the Lord, we've missed the mark. There are a lot of things listen, you can fit into the box. Of fundamental Christianity and not love the Christ whom it supposedly represents. I mean, you can do all of those things that that would make you admired or make you respected or make you respectable among your peers. And folk look at you and say, well, that individual is very spiritual. That individual is very godly. By the way, what people say and what God knows is often two very different things. And what people say it isn't as important as what God knows, because what God knows, God knows. And so as we think about this thing, we love him. The most important thing in our spiritual lives is that we love the Lord. We love Him. This is not a love that has to be manufactured. It's been miracle manufactur wrought in our heart, miraculously wrought in our hearts. We know, I know the scripture says this, we know that we have passed from death unto life. Because we love the brethren. And can I submit to you that the only reason we love the brethren is because we love the one who birthed us into the family. We love him that is begat because we love him that begot. In other words, we love the one who saved us, and we love those who are saved. And and listen, the most important thing, the most important thing, and it's so easy to get I I don't think the devil really cares How spiritual, how religious, I guess I should say, how religious we get, just so long as we don't love the Lord. You can be faithful to church and not love the Lord. I know, don't throw your hymn book. I'm not preaching heresy. But there's people that are faithful to a lot of things that just they don't love the Lord. Brother, sister, you have standards and not love the Lord. In fact, I think sometimes people love their standards more than they love their Savior. And we forget what it is we I mean, why do we do what we do? What's the what's the cause behind all of it? What's the motivation behind all of it? We love Him. And anything that robs me of that, or anything that stands between me and that, is an enemy of what's supposed to be. I'm to love him. That is a priority that is magnified. That's interesting when he comes down to the conclusion of this whole truth or this whole teaching. He comes down to this place and he says, we love him. He didn't say that we follow him, though following him is important. He didn't say that we believe right about him, though believing right about him is important. He did not say we live right. No, he said we love him. We love him. By the way, all of that other stuff will fall in line if you'll love him. Loving him precedes everything. Precedes everything. Go with me, if you will, to the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew chapter number 22, and I want us to look at a few verses here. You know these, but I believe it'll do our heart good to be reminded of them in light of what we're studying here. We love Him. We love Him. We're talking about priority, a priority, the priority that is magnified above all else. In Matthew chapter number 22, verse 36 Notice the question is asked, Master, which is the great commandment in the law? What's the greatest commandment in the law? Now, by the way, they believed that all the law was equal. That to elevate one command above the other would have been Treason in their understanding. But here's what they said. Watch the great commandment. They did this tempting him. Verse 37, Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord. Let me just stop right there. I know there's more, but let me show you something here. The Lord is saying the culmination of the commandments is this love the Lord. The coming together of all of the Old Testament is summarized in this one thing: Love the Lord. Thou shalt love the Lord. Look at it. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. This is. This is a priority. This is the most important thing. I imagine they I I don't know what they thought. I don't know what they thought they would do. Maybe they thought they would trip Jesus up and get him to the point where he would say, Well, I really don't know which is a great commandment and and sort of uh fumble before them, but of course they're dealing with the Son of God. He'll never do that. But they said, What's the greatest commandment? What if i i if you could give us the great commandment out of the law, what would it be? And boy did he ever make it plain. Love the Lord thy God. And church, let me say to you, Old Testament, New Testament, the command is still the same. The greatest commandment, the greatest truth, the greatest priority. The greatest thing of all things that are taught in the Word of God is this: love the Lord thy God. We love Him. Because he first loved us. Here is the priority magnified. Jesus magnified it with his own lips as he preached this truth and declared it to the people. Go quickly with me to another place. Luke chapter number fourteen. Luke chapter number fourteen, verse number twenty-six Let's read verse 25 and put it in the context. There went great multitudes with him, and he turned and said unto them. It's been interesting to me as I've studied this. Jesus often preached the crowds away. John chapter number six, it looks to me like everybody left but the twelve. Because when he gets down, he said, Will ye also go away? Said that to the disciples, and he said that to the twelve. And Peter said, To whom shall we go? He said there's no one else to go to. You alone have the words of eternal life. But he turns to a great multitude that are following him and he says this, and I'm sure it must have Must have turned them on in. If any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, yea, and his own wife also, he cannot be my disciple. Wow, what a what a statement. What do you mean, hate? You're not teaching what does the Bible say? We're to honor our father and mother. I don't believe our Lord was commanding literal hate. If he did, he contradicted himself, and God don't do that. The Lord don't ever cross his own teaching. He teaches us clearly. But but what does he what's he saying here? I believe he's saying this. When you compare your love to me To any other love on this earth, it would be equal to hate in the vast difference. In other words, I'm to love him, watch this now, I'm to love him more than my father, more than my mother, more than my wife, more than my children, more than my brethren, more than my sisters. More than my own life. I'm to love him supremely. I'm to love him completely. I'm to love him entirely. I'm to love him as the as the love of all loves in my life. That's what he's saying He's teaching us that that this thing of love is not a little thing. It's a very big thing. He's reminding us that without it you can't please the Lord. Without it, you can't follow the Lord. Without this kind of love, that you cannot be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm talking about a priority more magnified. Let's go quickly to one more. There may be two more, but anyway, John chapter 21. John chapter number twenty-one. You remember Peter has denied the Lord three times. He's and the scripture says he swore, so I'm just going to believe the Bible. He he used bad language to say I'm not a follower of the Lord. And he denied that he even knew the Lord right on the very moment y you think about the darkest hour of the life of Jesus Christ And the man who said, Lord, I'll die with you, stood and said, I don't know him. I'm not his follower. And I imagine there's a lot of things we could point out. In fact, if I was going to deal with Peter, probably the first thing we would do is deal with his language. Peter, why'd you use that language? My mother had a remedy for a bad mouth. It was called Irish Spring Soap. And she washed your mouth out with it. And it didn't take many Irish Spring mouthwashings to make you clean up your words. I heard some kids the other day I think it'd be a good thing if we use Irish Spring and maybe a little bit of borax too and clean their mouths out. But the Lord didn't say, now Peter, we've got to sit down and talk about your language. I think if I was going to deal with Peter, I would have dealt with Peter's lying. Peter lied. In fact, he lied really in several ways. Number one, he lied that he didn't know the Lord. He did know the Lord. He was with the Lord. He lied. And we know lying's wrong. There's no such thing as different colors of lies. A lie is a lie. Say little white lies is just a lie. If it's intended to deceive, it's a lie. And the Lord don't don't paint colors on lies. But can I remind you that when the Lord sat down and talked to Peter, he didn't deal with his lying about the maid And and he didn't deal with his lying about his lying to the Lord. He said, Lord, though all men forsake you, I'll die for you. But the Lord didn't deal with his line It's interesting to me that if if I was going to deal with Peter, I think I'd have a talk with Peter about where he lingered. Where was Peter? He was hanging around the devil's campfire. And listen, no good's gonna come out of hanging around the devil's crowd. God's people need to understand that, that oftentimes The filth of the world is going to pollute them more than than your righteousness is going to aid them. There's no point in being uh putting yourself in a place like Peter did I think I would have dealt with Peter about his lingering, but the Lord didn't do that. Didn't do that. Look with me in John 21, verse 15. So when they had dined Jesus saith to Simon, Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? But Lord, he lied. And Lord, he he he used bad language. He lingered in the wrong place. The Lord said, yes, but here's the problem. He doesn't love me like he needs to love me. You see, Peter's problem was not a lying problem. His problem was not a lingering problem. His problem was not a word or a language problem. His problem was a love problem. And can I just say to you this evening that, my friend, if you're struggling in some area of your Christian life, it it's not that thing that is the issue. The issue is you don't love the Lord like you need to love the Lord. If you've got a critical spirit, you just don't love God enough but to surrender that thing to Him. If you use bad language, then the problem is not so much with your lips, the problem is with your heart. Peter, do you love me? Peter, he's really examining, putting Peter under the spotlight in the scope, and he's saying, Now, Peter, look here. Do you really love me more than these? Man, there's a lot of debate about what the these are. Was it the other disciples? Peter often wanted to be ahead of them. He wanted to be the best and the top and the chief and all of that Or was it the fish that they had drug in that Peter had gone back to? And I I don't I'll be honest with you, I'm not real sure about what the these are, but whatever the these are They pale in comparison to the one that Peter was to love with all of his heart. Can I ask you tonight, do you love him? He says, We love him. He goes on and he says, verse 16, the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? You say he's already asked that. Did he forget that he asked the question? Oh, absolutely not. Our Lord only repeats himself for emphasis. He's emphasizing something important. He's emphasizing that, hey, Peter, all these other things are unimportant compared to this. Because if this is right, everything else falls in place. Love me. Do you love me, Peter? In verse 17, he saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? And watch this, Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me. And watch what he said: Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee. I believe here is an honest confession of a humbled man who says, Now, Lord, I should love you more, but you know I love you. I want to love you more. I want to love you more because I know what I did. I did because I didn't love you like I should. Perhaps Peter's problem was he was caught up in his performance and had forgotten about the priority. Peter had gotten wrapped up in all that Peter was able to do and capable of doing. He obviously was a very capable man. By the way, Peter's the only one that got out of the boat when Jesus said come, and he walked on water till he got his eyes on the w on the storm. Now you can throw rocks at him if you want to, but let me ask you a question. When's the last time you walked on water? At least he got out of the boat. And he believed God enough to do it for a while. God used Peter to do a lot of things. And even in the garden, Peter was no coward. Peter pulled his sword, took the man's ear off. And I don't believe he was aiming for the ear. I believe an angel had to go and pull his head back, keep him from losing it. Yeah. Peter was no unskilled man with a sword. He he was a he was a fighter And yet all of his abilities, all of his performances, all of the things that Peter could do failed miserably. In a moment of crises. Why? Because listen, the priority is not performance. The priority is to love the Lord. We love Him. Let's go to one more place, please. Revelation chapter number two. Revelation chapter number two. And let me just begin reading in verse number one. I'm talking about a priority that's magnified. It's all through the Bible. It's really all through the scripture. That unless you love him, I mean loving him, that's key. That's priority. That's everything. Your Christianity rises and falls on the fervency of your love for the Lord. Your faithfulness is born in a place of love for Jesus. Your boldness and obedience and all of the other things that are critical in our lives are born out of a place of I love you, Lord. Revelation 2 1 says unto an angel the church of Ephesus right These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. I know thy works and thy labor and thy patience, how thou canst not bear them which are evil, and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them liars And has borne and has patience and for my name's sake has labored and has not fainted. Stop right there. That's a pretty good testimony for a church to have. I don't believe the Lord was saying it in a condemning way. I believe he was complimenting the church. I believe he was commending this church. Church, you're doing the right things. You're a working church. You're a laboring church. You're a patient church. You're a pure ch You are a church that you bear the load and you're patient under the bearing of the load. And he says you've not seen it. You're a persevering church. Those are all commendable things. Those are all things that I I don't know of a church around that would not want that said about them. I mean a true church. I I would want the Lord to say that about Marinatha Baptist Church If the Lord were to write a letter to Maranatha, I'd want him to say, I know your works and I know your labor and your patience and your purity and your perseverance and all of that. I would want the Lord to say that. But then verse four, nevertheless, as if you're missing the mark I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love. Notice not their first works, but their first love. You don't love me like you used to. Listen, love is so important that the Lord here is convicting a church over the reality that they they just don't love God like they used to. He said you've left that first love. You've walked away from that first love. That love that you had. I mean when you first got saved, when you first surrendered your life to Christ, that love that said, Lord, you're the most important thing in my life. And little by little walk away. And isn't that true? I mean, listen, we gotta we gotta watch love in our hearts. We gotta keep it fervent. The Bible tells us to have fervent, have that fervent love among ourselves and for one another, but we're to have that fervent love for the Lord. Here they left that first love. They let that thing slip. It wasn't as important as everything else. You know why? Because man don't see that part of our Christianity. I believe a lot of times things come to the surface because they're visible. They become a priority because people see that. Well, I can't lay out a church because people see that. They know I'm not faithful. I can't not pray like I should or carry my Bible, etc. and all of those outward visible things or witness or whatever And and I I I don't want to be seen not doing the right thing. I get a kick out of people that act weird when the preacher's around. Like the preacher's something. Let's be honest with you, that that really troubles me. Because God sees you no goodness when the preacher ain't around. I mean it it 's not a matter of performance, folks. I I remember a fellow one time, I talked to him, it bothered me. Every time he'd get around, he'd jump on his kids about living for God. And every time my wife and I'd go see them, he'd jump on them kids. And and and he would try to get me on side. I'd just keep my mouth shut. It's his house, his children. But after a while that sort of got to me. And I started to think, listen, those kids need more than a lecture when the preacher's present. They need a living example when he's absent. They need somebody that's not a fake Christian living for God in their home rather than just putting on the dog when they're in church. And I said, brother, it bothers me deeply that you do your children that way. I say, tell you what you're doing. You're making them hate God. You're making them hate me. You're making them hate the church. I said, you need to be careful what you're doing to them kids. Furthermore, the best lecture you can give them is a holy life in front of them. A lot of our kids just need to see us live what we say we believe. And just put it in shoe leather every single day. But he said to this church, I've got something against thee, I've got somewhat against thee. You've left that first love. You've let that love, that, that, that love go from being a place of white, hot fervor to a place of coldness. I believe it was General Booth who said, You've got to tend the fire. You've got to tend the fire. You just don't leave it to itself. Love must be tended. I'm talking about this love for the Lord. Our love for the Lord's got to be tended. It's got to be cared for. It's got to be fed. It's got to be nurtured. It's got to be Courage I'd rather see somebody just a little bit too fanatical but yet in love with God than to see them cold and calculated and just very neatly fitting into some sort of box. Listen, if God saves somebody around here and they get all excited for the Lord, don't go put your wet blanket on them. Just let them love the Lord. In fact their their fire might light your old dying embers. Might just do it But he said, church, you've left your first love. Look what he goes on to say to them. Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen and repent. And do the first works. He's saying there is a remedy. That remedy, there's a remedy for it. I'm glad. I'm glad we just don't have to leave out of here. without first love, we can we can recover first love. The fire can be rekindled, the the the the the the love can be re recovered and restored. You can get back to a place of first love. And folks, it's worth it. It's worth it. Whatever it takes to get back to that place of first love. It's worth it The church was working, the church was persevering, the church was suffering, the church was standing, the church was pure, but they did not love the Lord like they should. And the Lord said, none of that matters in light of this. Because if you lose this, you'll lose everything else down the road. Why do we fail? We don't love the Lord like we should I'm talking about a priority that is magnified. Now, would you go back to the text with me? The Bible makes it very clear here in verse number 19: we love Him. And everything else that comes from that is a result of that. You know, we love the brethren. And he makes a lot about that. In fact, he says a lot about that here in the text. He says in verse number eight, He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. So he identifies faith These loveless ones, these that have no love for God or others, identify themselves as those who don't know the Lord. It's interesting when the Lord said, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples. What did he say? If you have love one for another. That's a mark. And by the way, that's something only the Lord can do. Because man without God is selfish and self-centered Man without God is fixed on himself. Who does he love? He loves himself. But it's a true sign of real conversion when someone begins to love God enough to love God's people. and love others. It starts to show. My, I could tell you a number of individuals who were hard. I think of that lady I've told you got saved. And uh what what a difference in her life. She was hard, she led uh government agency, she was very gifted, talented, but very cold and very professional. And oh, how God melted her heart and made her a lover of souls. She loved people. She loved God's people. She loved lost people. Man, her heart just got bigger and bigger and bigger. It just seemed like the closer she got to the Lord, the more love that seemed to flow from her person. And I'm just trying to say tonight that it's the reality when I love God, then I can love others. And we can't love others until we first love God. We often try to do the first thing last and the last thing first. And he's saying, look, it won't happen. He goes on to tell us, in verse number 12, he says, No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Not only is there the powerful transformation of love, but here is a perfection of love, a love completed or a love demonstrated through God's people. I believe it's Adrian Rogers talked about a little boy who came to church. I think it was him. And he said that little boy would come clear across town on his bicycle to this church, and he had passed five or six others. And someone stopped him at the door one day and said, Hey, why do you cut that you pass five or six other churches coming to this one? He said, Yeah, but they love a fella over here. They love a fella over here. That's evidence of dwelling in God. Now there's a lot of things you can put on. There's a lot of things that you can portray. There's a lot of things that you can uh you know make look like they are, but you you can't fake love long The truth will be revealed. He says, look, if we love one another, God dwells in us. It's evidence that he's there. He's there doing his work. It's the Lord who enables us to love others. Oftentimes we we we try to we say, well, you know what, I'm gonna be more loving. How many of you said this? Don't raise your hand, please But I I'm I I'm going to try to be more loving. Lord help me. I I want to be more loving, and we find out, you know, we try, and next thing you know, the most unlovely creature you've ever met comes walking across your path And you find out you can't love without the Lord's help. You just can't do it. I mean you you don't have the ability, it's not in you. You're challenged and you're tried and you're troubled. And you say, I can't do this. I can't do this. But listen, you get close to God. You love God with all your heart. You begin to love Him first and most and above everything else. And He'll begin to put in you what's not in you apart from Him. That love that God, only God, can put in your heart. I watched Brother well, I've watched Brother Bettner and I've watched Brother Jones both there at the rescue mission. And one thing I can say about both those men, they love the people they try to serve. They love them. They they they love them and and and listen, there there's a lot of difficulties involved in that kind of ministry. If you ever go down there for a service, there's watchers. In the men's side, on the men's side, watchers. And uh they give they give us a statement at the beginning If you don't think you can stay awake or keep your eyes open, go stand in the back. If not, you will be visited by a watcher. Well, one, two, three, four watchers. And I've watched them stand back there and look like ushers, okay? And they they would come around and somebody be nodding off and and they get up in their face and do that. And there was one guy there one night, he he did that, and that fellow was out of it. I don't know what if it was Whatever. But uh he he done his like that and he wouldn't wake up. And so he kind of shook him a little, he wouldn't wake up. Finally he put the real thrashing on him, and when he woke up, he was ready to fight And he said, Get up, go stand back here in the back. It's important. And you can hear these men. They talk like that while you're doing the service. They say, It's important that you hear what's being said. That's every night. Every single night there's challenges. You know there's challenges. in that kind of ministry. There's individuals that that that maybe want to take advantage and all the other things that go along with dealing with people. But what I'm trying to say is, what does love do? Love covers a multitude of sin Love enables a man to help another man knowing that it's not the man that's being it that's that's being that way, it's the sin that's in that man that is making him that way. And the answer is Jesus. Still it's Jesus. The answer's always been the Lord Jesus. But you can't see that if you're not living close and walking close to the Lord. When you love Him, you begin to see like He sees That's why he says, if we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Verse number sixteen says, And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. Now let's be discerning, please. Let's be discerning. Because the reality is that there is a love disgust among Christianity that is disgusting to Christ. Robert Schuler's one of his at the Crystal Palace, you know. So maybe you have to go back a day or two for that. One of his themes was a theme of love, but it was a godless love. You say, how do you know that? Because it was a Christless love. A love that does not tell us Jesus died for our sin and was buried and rose again the third day is no love. A love that does not tell you the truth about your sin, that you're on your way to hell without God and without hope, if you don't get saved, that's not true love. A love that says everything's okay and everyone's okay is not true love. Listen, if you love somebody and they're burning up in a house, you're going to do your best to get to them and get them out. Why? Because you love them You're not going to drive by and say, Well, I don't want to bother them. I don't want to upset them. If I knock on their door this time of night, it may get them upset. Can I just put a word in? If my house is on fire and I'm in there asleep, beat the door down, tear the windows out, I don't care what you do, wake me up. I'll get over being mad after I realize I'm alive But the reality is, my friend, oftentimes we couch these things that are compromised and lies, and we say it's all love. And friend, it's not love. It's love of self, it's not love for God. Jesus told the truth, the hard truth, and all the truth and truth that that that made men hate him and want to nail him on a cross. And why did he do it? Because he loved them. He loved them enough to tell them the truth. I'm talking about a priority that's magnified. We love him Now, church, can I just wind up and say this here? I'm done. All these other things we often put in places of great importance. Will get us off track if we don't love him first Priority number one, love the Lord. Love Him. See you can serve and serve and serve and and And you say, well, I'm not appreciated, and that's not recognized, and all of that, and you can get out of sorts. You know why? Because serving's your priority. But if love is your priority, all that other don't matter You can say, well, I I've I've I've uh sacrificed and I've gave up and I've given I've done all these these things, and if if that's your priority, it won't be long. You'll be exhausted with it, you'll be exasperated And disillusion and say, I'm just not going to do it anymore. I don't have anything else to give. But if love is your priority, you realize that Jesus loved us enough to lay down his life for us. I'm talking about a priority that precedes every other thing. We love him Can I ask you a question tonight? Do you love him? I mean, do you love him more than you love anything else? You know, you can you can love what you do for the Lord more than you love the Lord for whom you do it I had an old preacher pull me aside one day and he said, Son, one day you can't do what you're doing. And I, in my youthfulness, thought that was silly. But he said, there'll come a time you just can't do it. It's too demanding. Your body can't take it. There will come a time. Here's what he said: He said, You better love God more than you love preaching. Because when you don't, when that preaching's took away, he said your whole world will crumble if you don't love God. And there's a whole lot of things in our lives. We get our hands on, we say, Man, I love that. I love that. Like I said, our church. I'm thankful for our church. You ought to love your church. And you ought to love one another. This is a good church. It's not faultless because it's got people in it. And if you're looking for a faultless church, don't you join it because you'll spoil it There's no such animal. But I do believe there are people here that love God and love each other. But we can love that fraternity or fellowship more than we love God. I mean we can get so fixed on that and and that be a priority, but listen to me, friend. That thing can go south quickly. Because people are just people. But if you love God, if you love God, I mean you love Him more than you love your church family and you love Him in fact I don't think you can love your church family right until you love Him first And love him most. The whole thing, I mean, it goes through every part of our lives. In our homes, husbands, wives, children. We gotta love him. But do you love him? I'm not asking if you're saved. I I only God knows that truth, but I would believe the majority of people who are sitting in this place tonight know Christ to be their Savior. I'd be convinced of that. Only the Lord knows that. But as far as I can see and tell, I'm not asking you, are you saved? I'm asking, do you love the Lord? Are you are you at that first love place? Is your heart burning with love for the Lord? And you say, Well preacher, I've got to be honest with you, my heart's cold tonight, and maybe I'm a little indifferent and and I don't love him like I should. Can I tell you what you need to do? You need to get along with God and open your Bible and say, Lord, start the fire again. Start the fire again. You know where you're going to build that fire when you remember that you once had it. When you remember what it was like when the fire burned bright. When you repent of the reality that it's not that way no more, when you acknowledge it before God. And then when you go back to that first work, you say, What's that? Of walking close with God. When you get back to your Bible and back on your knees and back in sweet fellowship and saying, Lord, I want to please you and Lord I want to hear your voice and Lord, I want to get close to you. And Lord, you mean more than all the world to me. I want to get back to that place. And folks, listen, some of God's little children sitting here tonight You've got to get back to that place, got to get back to that place of first love, or else, my friend, there's going to be a great deal of calamity ahead simply because you've left that first love You can only prop up a straw man so long. Do you love him? Peter got to the place that third time that it humbled him. He said, Lord, thou knowest. I'm not going to try to defend myself I'm not going to try to promote myself. I'm just going to open my heart and say, God, you see, I love you. But I believe it was a confession of Lord, I want to love you more. It was an acknowledgement of his love, but yet he said, God, I want to love you more. And boy, did he ever. He recovered first love, didn't he? Who stood on Pentecost and preached boldly? Who led that early church, that church at Jerusalem? Who led them and shepherd them? Who was it that was so faithful? And we're told historically that they nailed him upside down as he died for the Lord. Who was it? It was that man who got first love back. He got that fire burning in his heart. Church, don't be content with just smoldering embers. Ask God to set your heart afire. Let's stand together, please.