We focused this morning on the first portion of the verse, and I'd like to move on to the second part of that verse. We'll read it in its entirety. Galatians chapter number six and verse number fourteen, and when you found your place, would you stand with me, please, as we honor the reading of God's word? Notice what the Bible says, but God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now note this part. by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. Heavenly Father, I pray in these moments we have together That your will might be done. Lord, we ask that you would help us now. We've come, Lord, knowing that what we need, what all of us here need, has got to come from heaven. And Father, would you speak to us? Would you minister to the deep need of every heart? Father, I thank you that you know right where we are and right what we need. And Lord, I pray that you'd be glorified in this place. Lord, hide me behind the cross, help me to lift up the Lord Jesus in a way that pleases you. And Lord, for everything that you do, we'll be careful to bow our heads and thank thee and praise thee. Lord, for you alone are worthy. We pray in Jesus' name, and God's people said, Amen. I want you to consider tonight what Paul's saying here, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. We're looking tonight at this thing of protection. Is there anything standing between me and the world? Is there anything standing between me and the enemy? Is there anything standing between me and certain danger? Don't you know if the devil had his way, he'd eliminate all of God's children before the sun rose? If the devil could, he would stop the voice and witness of the people of God That's how much he hates God's children. The Bible tells us that we are pilgrims and strangers on this earth. We sing it sometimes. This world is not my home. It'sn't our home. We're passing through here. And we're literally in enemy territory. But do we have any defense? Do we have anything that we can run to? Anything that we can look to that will be uh a a place of of refuge, a fortress, uh a manner of protection. Is there is there anything that overcomes the world that we're living in? Think about what the Bible says about our old flesh and how strong it is. Paul said, for to will is present with me. But how to perform, I find not. He had a burning desire in his heart to please the Lord, but he sure fought a battle trying to do it. Now we deceive ourselves when we say, well, I can handle it. The Christian who thinks that they've got it all uh under control has no idea how out of control things really are. So we need we need the help of the Lord. What's our help? Is there anything that again stands between me and all of this? Well, there obviously is, because Paul said, by whom I am crucify the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. Let me say this: ever since Paul met the Lord on the road to Damascus, Everything changed for him. Acts chapter 9, we read about that encounter And the first part of that chapter starts out, he's getting permission or authority or letters to go and take prisoners of those in Damascus. And he starts out on the journey, that is, until the Lord Jesus showed up and met him on the road. And it was when the Lord met him there, he said, Who art thou, Lord? And when the Lord said, I'm Jesus, he revealed himself to him, made himself known to him. And by the way, you don't find Jesus. Jesus finds you. There's a whole lot of thinking sometimes that's off course. I didn't go looking for him. In fact, I was going the other way, but he sure came looking for me. And boy, I'm glad he did, like that shepherd who looks for the little lost lamb. He went out and found him. He found him, and then Paul said, Saul then , what wilt thou have me to do? That's the language of a changed man. And it was from that encounter forward that that he was different. He was changed. He was never the same. Now, as you see Saul get up and go down to Damascus and wait for that meeting with Ananias. He's not just a man dead in sin, a man living in this world without God and hope Now standing between him and the world, standing between him and judgment, standing between him and the devil, standing between him, even in his own flesh. is the mighty cross of Jesus Christ. And now there's a whole new relationship developed in the life of the of Paul. Now he's a he's a new creature, and because he's a new creature, there are so many things that have been changed by this meeting. The cross of Jesus Christ changes everything for the Christian. I believe the cross was a red letter day in the history of mankind. On that day, so much there was a seismic shift. in in in eternity and in time regarding mankind. Because when we come to God through the Lord Jesus to the Cross of Calvary, there's a transformation that happens, and there's a whole new relation in this world. Do you realize that from the moment you got saved To this very moment, there's there's stand imagine this, you you know this, we all deserve judgment Everybody here. I don't care who you are, where you've been, what you've done, we all deserve the wrath of God Our sin calls for it very clearly. But standing between me and the wrath of God is a refuge. It's a great refuge by which I can find relief. It's something that holds back the flood tide of God's wrath. It's called the mighty cross of Calvary. And that mighty cross of Calvary holds back that great rushing thing of the wrath of God on mankind. Thank God for the cross of Jesus Christ. Changed everything for you. Changed everything for you. No wonder Paul gloried in the cross of Calvary. No wonder he took such delight in boasting and bragging, if you will, on the on the work of Jesus on the cross. He understood, listen, that cross changed everything for me Now you know what today it's awful what's the word? It's awful vogue for religious people to wear an ornament of cros of the cross, maybe silver or some other thing And it's an ornament , it's a decorative thing. But I'm here to tell you, the cross I'm preaching tonight is not an ornament, nor is it decorative. My friend, it's a mighty tool of battle. It is a place, it is a scene where the greatest battle in all of history took place on this earth. It was where darkness met light and light won. It's where hell itself came forward to marshal its ugly head forces And to meet the mighty Savior. And although, my friend, his uh heel was bruised, the serpent's old head was crushed on the cross of Jesus Christ. I'm here to tell you that's a mighty battle tool, and it just doesn't have to do with salvation. I'm here to tell you that the cross of Jesus Christ is the tool by which God's children battle. You know something? Superstitions often have roots in reality. Now superstitions are that, they're superstitions But they often reflect some misconstrued reality. In some parts of the world, crosses are used. People hold them up, you know, when they feel like they're facing some dark foe. They use that cross as they deal with what they believe and perhaps even is satanic forces. And they use that cross as a symbol of protection. Please listen to me. There's no cross that you can construct on this earth That will protect you from the devil. That cross stood 2,000 years ago on a hill called Calvary Now that mighty cross still has power to do battle with the wicked one. And you and I need to understand that it is by whom the world is crucified unto me and I unto the world. It is by the cross that we conquer. It is by the cross that we're more than overcomers. It is by this cross that we gain victory. Now, what does the cross effect? What is it that this cross affects? If you're making notes, I want you to notice number one, it affects our perspective. No man who's been to the cross, and I'm speaking figuratively here. We're not talking about a pilgrimage to a land far away and kneeling before some object. Uh I'm thinking now of one I I remember seeing stand, I can't remember the village, it was a French village, a Canadian village. Man, they they had the the most decorated cross I've ever seen in my life. And I don't know how much gold was in the thing. They tell me, or they told us that that That structure costs more than building the whole community did when they put it up. And it it was an elaborate thing. It was an elaborate thing And people would make pilgrimages there because they believed that thing had some power. They said some hundred so years ago they saw blood run down it, something foolish like that. That's superstition. That's idolatry. There's no power in in that sort of thing. I'm not talking about literally going and making a pilgrimage to some high cross on a hill somewhere. I'm talking about the cross where Jesus died, the work of God in the person of Christ when he died in our place. I'm talking about that monumental moment when the Lord Jesus uh crushed that serpent's head as he gave up the ghost and said, It is finished. Talking about that place of victory That is etched. Listen, it's more permanent than if you built a marble monument because time can't erase it. And the devil cannot deny it. And all of hell can't undo what Jesus did on the mighty cross of Calvary. And no man or woman or boy or girl or teenager or young adult can make void the mighty work of the cross of Jesus Christ. And so think with me about the perspective. No person who's ever been to the cross sees things the way they saw them before. It changes your perspective. Before you came to Christ, you had one outlook. And when you come to Christ, your whole outlook is changed. Remember, we read this morning over in Philippians 3. Would you go back there with me? We read about Paul's boasting, I guess we would call it. He really wasn't boasting. He was trying to make a point to these believers. But he said in verse number 4 of Philippians 3. Though I might also have confidence in the flesh, if any other man thinketh he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more, I more. Look, he said, circumcise the eighth day of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin. The Hebrew of the Hebrews is touching the law of Pharisee. Look, you know what he's doing? He's climbing the ladder. He's saying, look , I wasn't just your average Jew. I wasn't just the average Hebrew. I was top of the ladder. I was cream of the crop And he said in verse number six, concerning zeal persecuting the church, touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. Now I stopped there on purpose this morning because I want you to see what he said in verse 7. But What things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ? What changed his attitude? Paul walked around as a Pharisee of the Pharisees. Man, he was a man of great authority and power. And he really, if I can say it like this, had the world by the tail. And that is until he met the Lord. And all that stuff, you know what all that stuff? He said, none of that stuff compared to Christ. Every bit of that stuff I was willing to give it up and throw it away. In fact, he did. Look what he said, verse eight, yea, doubtless And I count all things but loss, for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things. Now watch this, and do count them but dung. That I may win Christ. That's strong language. But we're talking about a serious subject. That's strong language because Paul is saying, all of that I treasured. All of that I valued. All of that I thought was important. When I came to the cross, the Lord changed my perspective. The Lord changed my outlook. It's not the same anymore. It's just not the same anymore. Now, friend, listen to me. If you know the Lord, there's some things that just isn't the same anymore. He's changed your perspective. There are things that you would have given your life for then that you wouldn't even lay it down or surrender it for now. There were things that were important, valuable, things that were were worthy of, I mean you counted them great worth, that is, until you met the Lord Jesus, and you found that pearl of great price. And you said there's nothing quite like him. There's absolutely nothing even compares to him. You'll see here God brought a change. God brought a change. He said, those things that were gained to me, those I counted lost. Church, you don't learn that in discipleship. You learn that by divine workings in your heart. You don't learn that just simply by going through a booklet. You learn that by the Spirit of God, making the things of God precious to your soul. You don't learn that simply from another human being. You learn that from the ministry of the Holy Spirit who lives inside of you and says, you've got a treasure beyond words. You have someone inside of you who's more valuable than silver and gold. Boy, he makes a change. He makes a change. And again, that change comes because of Jesus Christ. Paul said, do you understand what he walked away from? He walked away from A position of great power. He walked away from great wealth, respect I mean, he was among the number in his circles and his nation, he was a man greatly revered. We're not just talking about some Johnny come lately. He was a man of great, great power. And he said, forget all that. The Lord. Jesus means more than that. What what you you expect me to keep going this way when I met him The perspective. Listen, the Lord Jesus can change our perspective. I'm thinking now the gentleman, he had a a very good paying job and a secure future and and and just his life was made. His life was made and then he got saved. And he believed God wanted him to go preach. And so he left that place of employment and he traveled to a distant place to preach. And he And listen, he didn't meet great success, partly because he went to a hard field. You know, you you don't grow A bountiful garden at the Arctic Circle. Now you might grow a pretty good garden here in Maryland. But the soil and the climate and all that's different. And there are different places in the work of God that are just not the same. And some are tough. And yet he believed God wanted him to go there. And he left all of that, and he left that secure future. And boy, he lived difficult for decades trying to serve the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm here to tell you what will make a man do that. The living reality that Jesus Christ is more precious. He's more precious than all the things the world can offer. He's more precious than all the the the trinkets of time and and all of the trifling things that we put so much treasures or so much value in He's better than all of that. And my friend, listen, he'll make a man turn his back on things that you'd never dream he would simply because he affects change everywhere he comes. And Paul counted things differently. You know, they tell me there's a new way of doing math. Common core, is that what they call it? Well, I'm here to tell you something. Two plus two still equals four. And you you may scratch your ear three times and stomp your foot forward to get to that point Sort of like where Ernest T. Bass, you know, when he was learning the cipher. But the reality is you still the the conclusion you come to. It's what matters. Paul count things, he counts things different. He said, I count all things but laws He said, I'm I I I used to I used to put things together and count them like this and say this is of value to me and this is important to me. And this adds value to me and all of that. But when you bring in the Lord Jesus Christ, he cleared his counting table and he said, I count all of that as nothing, so that I might win Jesus Christ. Here's what I'm trying to say, church. This cross will change your perspective. Too much of Christianity Is shallow at best, and perhaps false at worst Because there's no difference made by the cross There's no change being affected by the cross. No man, they tell me, and I don't know this. I know there may be some sitting here that do. But they tell me that once persons subject to war, conflict, they see everything different from that point forward It changes your perspective. I had a dear friend that was in Vietnam and we'd go to a restaurant and he'd always sit in a particular place. Never had his back to a door. He was always on edge. I'll never forget driving him to a meeting, and he and I were going to a meeting in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, and he went to sleep And he must have started to dream that he was there. And he woke up looking for his rifle. And he even reached over , scared me to death. He reached over and grabbed me by the shirt, put there and jerked me out of the car. I'm driving. And he's yelling about something. Get down, get down, get down. And I knew none of this. I mean, he scared me to death. I pulled over and I said, I'm not going any further with you. You're crazy. And he said, preacher, I'm sorry. He said, I should have told you. We stayed in a place, motel there in West of Salem, and he had two more of those episodes. Diving under the bed. He is affected. And until he gets to heaven, he's going to be that way I'm here to tell you if something on this earth can so alter the way you see things, don't tell me you've gone to the cross of Calvary and your perspective not be altered. I'm here to tell you when you see Jesus who died and was buried and rose again for you, it'll change everything inside of you, starting with your perspective. Number two, it'll change your position. You note the language of this text he said, let me get back to it here. By whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. Now, Paul never hung on the cross. He never hung on a cross. But in God's economy, when Christ died, Paul died, in God's way of in God's positioning of men and himself. When Christ was buried, Paul was buried. When Christ arose, Paul arose. The Bible says in Galatians 2. 20, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. You see, there's a new position. Now you're not You know, when you get saved, you get up. If you had brown hair, you still have brown hair. If you had blue eyes, you still have blue eyes. I if i when you when you call on the Lord Jesus to save you, uh you know, if if you had a crooked nose, you still got a crooked nose. There's no there's no and you're not translated or transformed from one place to another. You kneel down on an altar or by your bed or Bow your head in your car, or wherever it is that you called on the Lord Jesus, that that that physical location does not change suddenly, but I'll tell you there's a seismic shift in your position. You're no longer what you once were. And whether you realize that or understand that or not, the reality is there nonetheless. You are not what you once were. Our positions now in Christ. Paul takes the time in Romans chapter 6. You read it sometime, please, beginning in verse number 3, going all the way to verse number 11. talking about that awesome work of God when we're baptized into Jesus Christ, that the death of Christ begins to affect me, puts me in a new position, the burial and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. puts me in a new position. What he did affects me so that what he did I benefit from what he accomplished I become the benefactor of all that he endured, and what he wrought on Calvary becomes my inheritance as a child of the living God. Man, that's thrilling. I'm in Christ. That's my position. I'm identified with Him, and my Bible says I'm in Him. I'm in Him. Now you say, preacher, that's hard for me to understand. But note this. God sees it clearly and explains it very plainly so that you and I can believe completely. That we're in the Lord Jesus Christ, and that affects our position. A man outside of Christ is dead in sin, dead in his trespass. He's not alive. Oh, there's life. You know, I don't I don't know where this zombie business comes from. It's silly. I I met somebody not long ago and they told me they're preparing for a zombie apocalypse. I said, what? You you're you're you serious? You better believe it. This guy was dead serious A zombie? I said, pray tell what that is. Oh, you know these things that are half dead and man, you watch too much TV But you know something in a very real sense, there are spiritual zombies. You're alive, breathing, talking, eating, sleeping, experiencing life, but you're dead. Dead in your trespasses and sin. Lost without God. No hope. There's a part of you that don't respond. God, it's as if there's a wall between you and God. Well, there is a wall, not as if. There is a wall. It's called your sin. And it separates you from him. But my friend, listen to me. When you get born again, you're not in that condition or position any longer. You've been resurrected to walk in newness of life You've been placed in the living Savior, and the living Savior 's been placed in you, and now you've got a new position, and the Lord Jesus lives inside of you. Now listen, Paul says this two times in Romans 6. He says, knowing that. Knowing that. What? Knowing that our old man's crucified Knowing that that new man's alive. Knowing that. Don't check your brains at the door when it comes to Christianity. No. What do we know? We know that when Christ died, he died in our place. We know that his death affected us in the sense that he paid our penalty and that he took our punishment and God no longer has wrath towards us. But demonstrates mercy and grace and love, for we've been brought into the family of God. I once was dead, but now I'm alive, and now I live in the Lord Jesus Christ, that part of me that was dead. You need to know that. And then the Bible says you need to reckon. You need to reckon. Used to make fun of little Sarah when we lived up north because she used that word a lot. She'd heard it. I guess she heard us use it, you know. They said, Sarah, are you gonna go uh play on the playground? I reckon. That was how she'd answer, I reckon. You going to school tomorrow? I reckon. That was her sweet little way. I'm still here. I reckon. Well, that's not Bible reckoning, by the way. Southern reckoning and Bible reckoning is two different things. It's a possibility. It may happen, it may not happen. But when you reckon, it means you count it as so and put your faith in what God said. Reckon yourselves to be dead indeed into sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Reckon it to be so. Count on it to be so. Believe it to be so, you say, preacher, but I don't necessarily feel persuaded. I don't feel quite like that's the truth. Listen, lay your feelings at the feet of facts and trust the word of God and know that He does not lie. Reckon yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin and alive unto God. One who's been to the cross is now in a different position. When you come to the Lord Jesus, he doesn't leave you like he found you. Church, it changes. Paul was changed at the mighty cross of Calvary. That brings me to the third point, and I'll be through: the power. There's a change of power. The spell and the charm of this old world's broken at the cross. It's broken there. It doesn't have the same power it once had. Sometimes we think, I can't help it. You know, Paul went through that in Romans chapter number seven. The things I would do, I do not, and the things I would not, I do. And he came to this awful conclusion. Every Christian's got to get here. Oh wretched man that I am. As long as you're making excuses, as long as you're putting makeup on the old man, as long as you're trying to make him look good while he's no good You're not gonna get help. But when you get to the place that you say, you know the problem with us, we're pretty good in our own thinking. I'm alright. You know, I'm a pretty good Christian. I'm above average. I'm better than so-and-so. Yeah, but have you ever seen yourself like God sees you? Have you ever been honest before the Lord about the condition of your old sinful heart? The pull of your old flesh? Have you ever owned up to it and looked in the mirror and said, Yep, that's me? A deceitful, desperately wicked, evil heart? A wretched man, Paul said, Oh, wretched man, man, who shall deliver me from this body of death? And the word picture there is a man changed or chained to a rotting corpse. Imagine how gross that would be How sickening that would be. He said, It's like I'm chained to this old rotten corpse. I can't get away. I don't have the key. I can't I everywhere I go is with me. The stench comes up my nostrils. The ugliness of his person is right there. I can't get away. Who's going to deliver me? Who's going to set me free? And I'm glad the chapter don't end there The very next verse says, But I thank God through Jesus Christ, our Lord, there's the key. There's who sets you free. There's who liberates and delivers you, my friend. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. What once held sway no longer does. Friend, listen to me. You don't have to sin. Stop believing the devil's lie. Well preacher, I just can't people say it's all well it's just me. Well it may be you, but if you're in Christ, there's a new you in there. Ah, preacher, I I don't know. I fight this thing. And by the way, if I understand my Bible right, everybody's got a besetting sin. It's what Hebrews 12 teaches. There's a besetting sin. That means the sin that eats your lunch. Huh? We live in a culture talking about bullies. If we go back about a decade and a half, we or maybe two now, I guess. Time gets away. Maybe three If we get if we go back and deal with bullies like they used to, there wouldn't be so many of them rascals. I went home one time, but boy, I mean he beat the daylights out of me, and I don't remember for what And uh I I do remember this, took my head and run it into one of them porcelain sinks in the bathroom. You talk about a goose egg coming up on my head. And I remember going home and dad said, son, what happened today? And I told him, he said, what'd you do? I said, nothing. He said, I'm going to tell you something. He said, you go back to school tomorrow and this happens again. He said, he better look as bad as you do today. Or he said, you're going to have to answer to me. I know. That's not politically correct. And if you think less of me, you pray for me. I'm not as spiritual as you think I am. But I went back and that Joker came along and sure enough, it's not in my nature. My nature is different. I don't like confrontation. I'll walk ten miles around not to encounter it. That's just who I am. I can't change that. But I'd far rather face him than my mean daddy back home And so I did what I was told to do. And you know something? That bird never bothered me again. All through school. We was, you know, he stayed in his corner, I stayed in mine. But listen to me, the devil wants to bully you into a corner and make you think, I can't I can't win. I have no power. There's no way for me. Look, I've got a besetting sin. That thing eats my lunch. That thing beats me up. That thing takes advantage of me. I I can't win. I can't win. I'm helpless. I'm a victim. I have no power. Would you look in the Word of God and see the mighty cross rise up? through the fog of that lie and stand as a tower above all and say, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me Do you hear the word of God declaring to you that we are more than conquerors through him that loved us and gave himself for us? Do you hear the precious word of God say, Christ liveth in me? Christ liveth in me. Oh beloved, listen. The performance of victory is in the person of Jesus Christ. Let him have his way. Let him have his way. I told somebody this morning, I think one of the greatest things we can do is learn to stay out of his way and let him have his way. Let him do what he wants to do. Preacher, my flesh is weak. Can I say something about that? Everybody here is made of the same stuff. We all have flesh, and it's all corrupt. And the reality for all of us is we need a deliverer. We need a champion. We've got a Goliath. Where's little David? Well, we don't have a little David. We have the greater son of David. We have the Lord Jesus Christ. And he steps on the field of battle. And my friend, one word. You think about this. There's coming a day. When Jesus Christ will come to this earth and the armies of the world are going to be gathered together. That's what the Bible says. The devil's going to so dupe men that they think they'll defeat God with their weapons. They're going to have, I don't know what kind of weapons we'll have in that day. But they'll have every weapon trained heavenward and they're ready to eliminate the very Son of God. And the Lord Jesus is going to come to this earth. He's not going to draw a sword. He's not going to send a host of angels. He's going to speak the word. And his word 's going to lay low the devil so that the blood flows as deep as a horse's bridle. That's the power of the word of God. And and listen, my friend, if he can do that with a word Pray tell me what he can do in your life and my life as he speaks the word and gives us victory through his person and help in his presence. I'm here to tell you there's victory available. You don't have to be a punching bag for the devil. You can win victory. And my friend, you can be an overcomer if you'll let the Lord Jesus have his way. Paul said, look, I'm a wretched man, and nobody can deliver me but Jesus. But oh, thank God for Jesus. And he trusted, and listen, Christ helped, transformed his life. When one comes to the cross, there's power there. Mighty power there. Mighty power there. That's why, my friend, when you sin, run to the cross. Child of God, you run to the cross. You know the cross was the answer for your lost soul. Can I say it's still the answer for your saved soul? It was the answer for your lost condition. It's your answers now for your saved condition. It was the relief that you needed. Remember when you got saved under deep conviction and you ran to Christ and found mercy? Run to him today and find help. Run to him today and find peace. Don't think for a minute you're in the battle alone or that you're And fight through the fog and get to the other side and hope you make it Oh, listen, when Joshua started into the promised land, he had an encounter. Not a chance encounter, but a divine encounter. And that encounter was with the Son of God Himself. And he saw him dressed as a mighty warrior with his sword drawn. And you know what that gave Joshua courage to do? He knew he was going into that land not by himself. But under the orders of the Lord Jesus who marched right with him. And my friend, he understood there was one fighting for him that was unseen, but not unknown. Church, there's one fighting for you that's unseen, but he's not unknown. There's one fighting for you. If God be for us, Paul said, if God be for us, who can be against us? If God be for us, and it's not that there's nothing against us, it's who cares what's against us if God be for us. Know that. And rejoice in the protection of the mighty cross of Calvary. Standing between you and hell's a cross. Child of God, listen, you need not fear the flames of torment, for the cross extinguishes them. You don't need to live defeated. I think sometimes we just accept. That's about as good as it gets. Oh friend, you don't have to lay down there and die. Standing between you and defeat is the cross of Calvary. You don't have to fear what the devil may do. You know the Bible says the last days are going to be full of fear. And you know, since that pandemic, I think we've become a culture that's fear-driven, consumed with fear. Afraid of everything. And my friend, listen, there's a continual supply of things of which Our hearts are alarmed by. And my Bible says men's hearts will fail them for fear. I believe that's a literal statement. People are going to die from the fear that consumes their lives. Remember this, Christian. Standing between you and fear is a cross. It abolishes the fear. Silences and drives it back. Says there's no need to be afraid. Fear not, for I am with thee. Hey, hear the cross, the cry of the cross. There's no need to be afraid. Say, but preacher, I'm awfully weak. Man, I'll tell you, in this part of my life or this area of my life, I struggle. Look to the cross. There's certain victory there. Standing between you and absolute defeat and devastation is a mighty cross of Calvary. Run to it. Run to it. That song, uh Grace, Marvelous Grace You know there's a line in there, and I want to read it to you. Listen to what it says Sin and despair, like the sea waves cold, threaten the soul with infinite loss. Grace that is greater, yes, grace untold, points to the refuge, the mighty cross. Oh my friend, there's a refuge tonight. It's the mighty cross of Calvary. Run to it. Run to it. Find victory there. Notice what he said, by whom the world is crucified unto me and I unto the world. Do you know what Paul said in a statement? The answer is still the cross. It's the answer for me as a Christian. That's why I glory in it. That's why I boast in it. That's why I rejoice in the mighty cross, because it's still the answer. Man, listen to me. The answer for this church is still the cross. I don't care what the question is or what the problem is, the answer for your family is the cross. Hey family, whatever your problems and struggles are, you just get back to the cross. You'll find your solutions there. That relationship that's that's on the rocks and My friend, go to the cross. Get back to the cross. There's the answer. This country falling apart right in front of our eyes We're seeing the ashes of our society pile up deeper and deeper. But you know what the answer is? It's not who we put down in Washington, D. C. It it don't take them long once they're down there to get as rotten as the rest of 'em. You put a bad apple with a bad apple, and all the apples go I mean the other apples go bad And that's what's happening. And listen, it's not that you're not going to fix anything down there. We're not going to fix it in Annapolis or anywhere else. I'll tell you where you fix it. Mom and daddy get back to the cross. Husband and wife get back to the cross. Sir, ma'am, get back to the cross. Young people, get back to the cross. You've got a solution there. You've got answers there. Dear Christian, you say, but I've been saved 40 years. I got a head full of knowledge. Get your heart full of love for the Lord Jesus. Get back to the cross. Count that knowledge as nothing for the excellency of this knowledge, Jesus Christ the Lord. Get back to where you can get some help. Marinatha Baptist Church, good times, bad times, whatever we go through, get back to the cross. You'll always find the answer in the cross. Oh, may God help us to see it. May God help us to see it. Would you stand with me, please?