Please to the book of Philippians, Philippians chapter number one, and I'd like to read one verse in your hearing, verse number twenty-one. Philippians chapter 1 and verse number 21. When you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please, as we read God's Word. I remind you that what we're reading this morning is not the opinion of men, and it's not the thoughts of men, but it is the very Word of God. And this is what the Bible says, this is what God says, Philippians chapter 1, verse 21, for to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. Father, I thank you for your precious word. I ask you this morning to do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. Lord, hide me behind the cross. Help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. Speak to us in personal and powerful way, and Lord, we'll give you all the glory. I thank you, Lord, for the absolute truth of what I just read. I thank you, Lord, that regardless of what men say or philosophies may surmise or the culture of our day may magnify the reality is for to me to live as Christ. And to die 's gain. So Lord, in mercy, please speak to our hearts. We'll give you the praise for it. For we're asking these things in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. I appreciate how the Bible can take a few words And say a whole lot. Really, I want to focus on seven words that are spoken here in the first part of verse 21. And reminds you what life is really all about. Someone has said that this is Christianity in a nutshell. Christianity in a condensed version. Seven little words, for to me to live is Christ. Spoken by perhaps the greatest Christian who ever lived, written in the most personal book he ever penned. Of all the books that God used Paul to write, the book of Philippians reveals his heart like no other. Yes, there's doctrine in this book, and yes, there's church teaching and there's teaching about the person of Christ and there's a lot of other things in the book of Philippians, but ultimately it's a revelation of who Paul is. It's a revelation of the heart this man had. And he's telling us what it is to live. He's telling us what life is all about. And you know, isn't it something that people look everywhere. They look all around the world to try to figure out why am I here, what's the reason of life, what's the purpose, and we've got it in seven words here in the New Testament. For to me to live is Christ. In this short book of four chapters, which you can read, if just an average reader can read this book in twelve minutes. If you were to sit down and read this book or have a conversation, if you will, and it takes 12 minutes, do you know nearly 50 times Paul mentions the name of Jesus Christ? Fifty times he says, Christ, Christ, Christ, Christ, Christ. You say, why? Because here's the reason. For to me to live is Christ. It was the the consuming passion of the Apostle Paul to know and to make known the Lord Jesus Christ. Now you talk to somebody for a little bit and you'll find out what they're consumed with. Their speech will betray them. It may be sports, it may be a job, it may be something else, but whatever it is, listen, if you're saved this morning, there's only one thing that that really is worthy of consuming your life, and that's Jesus Christ. For to me to live is Christ. Someone said Jesus Christ filled Paul's horizon. Everywhere he looked, he saw Christ. Now, by the way, I remind you, this is a prison epistle. Paul's riding from the jail. He's riding from prison. He's not in a palace. He's not in a place of comfort. He's literally in a place of suffering. And yet still the consuming desire of his heart is Jesus Christ. And so he pens, for to me to live is Christ. I want you to think with me this morning about this as Paul's horizon is filled with Christ when he looked behind him And he had a past. When Paul looked behind him, he saw the mercy of Jesus Christ. I I hope this morning, and and by the way, everybody here has got a past. But I hope when you look at the past, you can see the person of Jesus Christ and see the mercy he's extended to you. I was reading the Psalms this morning and reading A Psalm, Psalm 29, and that is the thunderstorm psalm. I've got it written in my Bible, the thunderstorm psalm. It's a storm. It's a psalm that magnifies the majesty of God in the storm. He talks about thunder and he talks about lightning and he talks about the voice of many waters. Now storms display the majesty of God. When you think about a storm and all of its power and and what it can do, and you realize that our God is a powerful God. But can I remind you that majesty is torture without an understanding of mercy? If you see nothing but the majesty of God, you've got reason to quake in your boots this morning because He is all-powerful. He holds life and death in His hands And there will come a day when he will sever mankind into two categories, lost and saved. And my friend, listen, only the mercy of God makes me rejoice in the majesty of God. Because I realize that he showed mercy to me, a sinner. When Paul looks on his past, he sees the mercies of God or the mercies of Jesus Christ. When he looked ahead, he saw the glory of Christ. He said, for to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. Now what are you going to do with somebody like that? I mean, they say, well, let's kill him. Go ahead. He's just going to promote him to heaven. Let him live. He's going to preach Christ. You just can't do anything with somebody who's consumed with Jesus Christ. Church, I want to remind you of my heart's burden this morning. This text has gotten big in my heart, and I pray that it grows larger. But the reality is that we're consumed with a whole lot of meaningless stuff. We're eat up in this country with politics and we're eat up with positions of power and we're eat up with personalities. Oh, to be consumed with the Lord Jesus once again. He's our hope. Listen, there's no hope this morning in what happens in Washington DC, one way or the other. There's no hope this morning what's going to happen in the future of this country. You know where our hope is? Jesus Christ and him alone For to me to live is Christ. When Paul looked around, he saw the activity of Christ. He said, I'm going to preach Christ. You set me free, I'm going to preach him. People are going to get saved. Churches are going to be started. And God is going to work. He could see the activity of Christ. And by the way, God's not dead and Jesus isn't through with his church. He's still building his church. He said these words in Matthew 16, 18, I will build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. He's still building his church. He's still doing a work in people's hearts. He's still saving souls. He's still working where men respond to the gospel of Jesus Christ. I'm telling you, he's alive and well. His activity. The problem is that we're watching all that's happening around us. We're consumed with it. My brother called me last night about 12. 30, finally got cell service down there, and he said, uh, what's going on? And I said, well, there's a terrible storm. It came through and he said, Well, did it just hurt us? I said, no, it's all of western North Carolina has just about been decimated with flooding and Mountains have slid off and there's no cell service, no electricity anywhere. And he's like, wow. He said, you know, the last three days, I've just lived in my little world. He said, my house is standing. There was no radio stations. No radio was on until late yesterday evening. One station was able to get up on the air. And he said, you know, my house was standing and we had some wind and rain and lots of flooding around us, but he said, I really did not know what was going on in the outside world. Now, I'm not recommending you be ignorant of what's going on in the outside world. But I am saying that you can get so caught up in the outside world that you forget for to me to live is Christ. Now you can forget what really matters is Jesus and Him only, what He's doing, the activity of the Lord, and God is working in this late hour. Not only when he looked around him did he see the activity, but when he looked above him, he saw the sovereignty of the Lord Jesus. He recognized that he is on the throne. Here the powerful forces of that age said Paul, we're going to silence you in death. And he said, Go ahead. Because there's one on a throne higher. There's one who's greater and more powerful. You know a lot of times people think that they have some sort of power to exercise over you. I've got news for you. There's one God, there's one king, there's one throne, and the Lord Jesus sits on it. He's the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. So long as He rules and reigns, all is well. So for to me to live is Christ. Now, let me say this. This wasn't always so for Paul. To be able to write these words, that was not always his ability. He could not do that. There had to be a beginning. And I want you to go quickly back to Acts chapter 9, and let me read several verses in your hearing. Acts chapter 9, I want you to see how this all started with the Apostle Paul. And I would say to you this morning that if you're saved, you've not always been saved. If you're sitting here saying, Well, I've always been a Christian, you're not a Christian. I've always believed. Well, friend, you've not always believed, you've not yet believed of the saving of your soul. There is a moment when this begins for to me to live is Christ. Listen how it started in Paul's life. Verse number one, Saul yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went unto the high priest and desired of him letters to Damascus to the synagogues. that if he found any of this way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem. And as he journeyed he came near Damascus, and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven And he fell to the earth and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus, whom thou persecutest. It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. And he, trembling and astonished, said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And the Lord said unto him, Arise and go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do. And the men which journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing a voice, but seeing no man And Saul arose from the earth, and when his eyes were open, he saw no man. But they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus. And he was three days without sight, and neither did eat nor drink. Verse 10 says, There was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias. And to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias. And he said, Behold, I am here, Lord. And the Lord said unto him, Arise and go into the street which is called straight, and inquire in the house of Judas for one called Saul of Tarshus. For behold, he prayeth. And has seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in and putting his hand on him that he might receive his sight. Then Ananias answered, Lord, I've heard by many of this man how much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem. And here he hath authority from the chief priest about all that call on thy name. But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way, for he is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel. For I will show him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake. And Ananias went his way and entered into the house And putting his hands on him said, Brother, Saul, the Lord, even Jesus, that appeared unto thee in the way, as thou cameest, has sent me that thou mightest receive thy sight and be filled with the Holy Ghost And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had been scales, and he received sight forthwith, and arose and was baptized. And when he had received meat, he was strengthened. Then was Saul certain days with the disciples which were at Damascus. And straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues that he is the Son of God. But all that heard him were amazed and said, Is not this he that destroyed them which called on his this name in Jerusalem, and came hither for that intent that he might bring them bound unto the chief priests? But Saul increased the more in strength and confounded the Jews which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ. What a change. I want you to notice three things real quick this morning about this beginning of life. This start of this life for to me to live is Christ. It started right here on the Damascus Road This this uh commencement of life, if you will. I want you to notice the commencement of it. And back here in the book of Acts, chapter 9, verse 3, the Bible says, as he journeyed, he came near Damascus, and suddenly I want you to see that word suddenly. Salvation is not something you grow into. Salvation's an instant work of God. Now you may come to the truth over a period of time There may be a gradual understanding as you begin to see what the Bible says and hear the gospel, but there is a moment in time when you're saved. You're saved Instantly, you're saved suddenly. Here the the apostle Paul, who this man named Saul, who will be the Apostle Paul, was saved suddenly. There's a moment. Is there a moment you can go back to and say, that was the moment I met Christ? You say, I can't tell you the day, I can't tell you the hour. I'm telling you the day and the hour is not as important as the moment. Was there a moment where you met the Lord? Is there a moment you called on the Lord? Is there a moment Jesus Christ became your Savior? I remember the moment. It took me a long time to get that settled in my heart because that I I couldn't remember the dates and all of this. I could remember my age. I remembered that season, but I didn't remember the exact date. And I'm telling you, there's a moment when I came to know Jesus as my personal Savior. Suddenly he is saved. Suddenly the Lord begins to do a work. Now take heart. You say, preacher, my loved one, I I've told them the gospel, I've tried to point them to Christ. Know this. Suddenly everything can change. Suddenly the Lord suddenly the Lord could do a work in their heart. Suddenly you may get a call and say, hey, let me tell you what the Lord just did. Suddenly, that's how He works. Number two, notice the shining that took place. He said there shined round about him a light from heaven. Now, God did supernaturally What he often does internally for the Apostle Paul. God shined a light from heaven. You know what that light did? That light exposed him. God said, You're a must you're a Malite. The Lord said, I know who you are. I know where you're at You know, you you see a you ever turn a corner or something and a deer be standing in the road and your headlights hit them and all of a sudden they're like You see me. I'm here. Well, that's the shining that took place. You say, what does that represent? It represents the working of the Spirit of God in a person's heart. When the light of the glorious gospel shines in, when the work of conviction begins in a person's heart. I remember hearing a man say when he got saved, he said, I felt like the preacher was talking to me. He he was with his wife who had gotten saved earlier and she's uh they got in a fight going home because he said to her, You told the preacher everything about me. Boy, he was mad. I mean he was tore up. He said you told him how low down to rock. She said, I hadn't even talked to the man. I don't know it I I I don't know who he is. I didn't tell him anything. You know what was happening? There was a light shining in his heart There was a light shining in his life, and I'm telling you, when you get saved at the commencement of that life, there is a shining in your heart. I remember when I got saved, I was sitting on a side pew. We had pews up the side of the building just trying to make room. And I was sitting with some of my friends and and probably wasn't paying much attention. But I remember when the shining started. I didn't see a light from heaven. There was nothing supernatural in that way But suddenly my heart was seized with the reality that God knows me, I'm lost, my sin separated me, and nothing can save me but Jesus. And I was troubled. I was troubled. I felt like God had caught me red-handed. And I sat condemned before Him. That was the shining. Friend, that's the work of the Spirit of God. You can't do that, and I can't do that. I've heard a lot of preachers over the years try to put conviction on people. You can't put conviction on people. You or I don't have that power. We don't have that authority. It's not up to me to convict you. It's the light of the scriptures and the light of the Spirit of God that shines in a man's heart and shows him who he is before God. But I'll tell you he'll do that. He did that here. He shined that light. Some of you are sitting at home when the Spirit of God went, Whoop, turned the light on. Said, Hey, you're lost. You need to be born again. A friend of mine was listen, a friend of mine was handing out tracts. He thought he was safe. He was handing out gospel tracts. And uh because that's what he was told he should do. And he's sitting there and he said, you know, I've never read one of these. I ought to read one. And he's sitting there reading it, and he's on his lunch break. And as he's reading that track, he says, you know what? I need to do what this track says. I've never been saved. You know what happened in that truck while he is sitting there eating his dinner? The Spirit of God turned the light on. He shined from heaven in his heart. And my friend, there's no man saved without the shining. There's no way to be saved unless the Spirit of God does his work in a person's heart and he begins to shine. Not only was there suddenness here, but there was a shining, and then he heard a voice. God speaks. God speaks. It says in verse 4 that he heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? The Lord begins to speak. Now listen, you're not going to hear an audible voice. If you do, go to the doctor You're not going to hear an audible voice. You know how I know that? Because my Bible says the audible voices have passed. The dreams and prophecies and all of that are finished. He now communicates through the scriptures concerning his son, what Jesus has done for me. Peter said you're born again by the incorruptible seed of the Word of God which liveth and abideth forever. I'm saying, my friend, not only is there a suddenness and there's a shining, but there must be the scriptures. You can't sing nobody to Jesus. But you sure can preach them there. Listen, you can't shout anybody to Jesus, but you can show them the scriptures, and the scriptures show the way. You can't lay the Bible down when you try to bring a person to Christ because it's the Word of God that gives new life The life is in the seed of that word. The life is in the truth. The life is in the reality that Christ died for our sin. was buried, rose again the third day. How do I know that message? I know that message through the scriptures. It's the Word of God. And I'm saying this morning that when this life commences, when this life begins There must be the suddenness. There must be the shining, but there also must be the scriptures. Life begins. Listen, life begins. When the scriptures are received. When you believe the record that God has given us of His Son That's the beginning of new life. When you believe what the Bible says, and again, Paul reminded the Corinthian believers, he said, I'm only preaching to you that which I also have received myself. What did he preach? He said, I preached Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Do not underestimate The power of God's precious word. I'm amazed at where plants can come, how they can come up, or where they can grow. We've waged war around here. It particularly bothers me for some reason when I see grass growing in asphalt. It don't belong there. We torch it, we spray it. I love to torch it. I enjoy burning that stuff down. And you know something we burnt something not long ago? And I went and three days later it had greenery coming right back up. I thought, you determined little rascal, how can you grow after I put probably seven, eight hundred degrees on you or hotter and scorched you. It it I mean it'd melt the bottom of your boots. It'll set your britches on fire. You've got to be careful. That's how hot it gets. And yet hear this thing. You know why? Because there's root down in there. Whatever that seed is, it's germinated life, and that life is indestructible, it sure seems. I'm telling you, there's a seed that you and I have, and that's the scriptures. And when we plant this book, don't underestimate. You say that heart's hard. That person's a Christ rejector. That individual, there's no way you can get there. Oh, there's no way you can get there, but don't estimate what he can do with the word. God's word is still powerful. The gospel is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew also, to the Greek and to the Jew also. Listen. God is able, know this, God is able to save any sinner anywhere, and the scriptures are the work, are the way which God works. There's a commencement. Know that. This all started. You say, well, where did Paul first hear the voice? We don't know that. But I do believe that when they put when they put Stephen to death, he heard something there he'd never heard before. I believe there was enough scripture sowed in that man's heart, enough truth. In fact, he sat at the feet of Gamaleel. He had been taught the Old Testament scripture. His heart was a repository of truth. He had a lot of truth in there. And I'm here to tell you, there is nothing like the power of God's word, Old or New Testament. Because the New Testament is just an expounding of the old, and the old is the seedbed of the new. Some people say, well, you can't get saved without the New Testament. I've got news for you. God saved anybody through his word from any passage. I remember a man preaching one time out of the book of Genesis, and he didn't even preach the gospel per se, but he preached the text of the Word of God, and God used that scripture to bring that man to Christ. All scriptures given by inspiration of God. All the Bible is the Bible. All of the Bible has the power of God upon it. And God will use it to the saving of men's souls. So when did this life begin? It commenced at his conversion. But then he does something. Flip back to Philippians real quick with me. He begins a comparison now He compares what he was to what he is. He looks back to where he came from, to where he is now. And as he makes this comparison in Philippians chapter 3, Turn to Philippians chapter 3 and verse 4. He reveals something here that we need to see about this new life. He says in verse 4, though I might also have confidence in the flesh, if any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more. Circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, an Hebrew of the Hebrews, as touching the law, a Pharisee. Concerning zeal, persecuting the church. Touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. But listen. Verse seven, but what things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ. Yea, doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I've suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung that I may win Christ And be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. Notice as he makes a comparison, he summarizes it. In verse number four here, we see that he talks about having confidence in the flesh, but he gets to verse eight and he says But I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. He said, When I compare what I've lost to what I've gained, what I've gained is priceless What I've lost is nothing. You know the devil wants you to think you're going to lose if you trust Christ. He's a liar. He's a liar. You're gonna lose y he says you're gonna lose. You know what you'll lose? You'll lose condemnation. You'll lose the coming judgment You'll lose, my friend, the convictions. Listen, you'll lose a great deal of things, but it'll be nothing that you will regret losing to gain the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, he summarizes it. He says, look, I count all that loss. It's dung. It's nothing. It absolutely is worthless. It means nothing to me. I just, I'm willing to lose it all just to get the Lord Jesus Christ. He surmises, he goes back in verses 3 to 6, and he talks about that former life. He talks about all that he had outside of Christ. He had power. He was a Pharisee of the Pharisees. He had political power and spiritual power. He had prestige. He was a Hebrew of the Hebrews. He had all the popularity. He was of the tribe of Benjamin. He bore that mark of being zealous for the law's sake, for Judaism. He had all the things that a man, a natural man, might want in life, and he had it all. And you know what he said? It meant nothing. You know why? Because all of that won't satisfy your soul. Maybe you're sitting here thinking, man, if I could just get a hundred more dollars. You'll get it and it won't mean no more than it does without it. You'll get they tell me when Ford was dying, Henry Ford, they asked him if if you could have anything, what would you want? He said, one more dollar. And he had more than he could ever use. Left it for somebody else. See, because some people that if if they were honest, they would have to say, For to me to live is money. Or for to me to live is, and you fill in the blank, it could be not just money, it could be work, it could be popularity, it could be some position, it could be anything. But listen, all of that is worthless It means nothing. When you realize that you are made for eternity, that you're going to live forever somewhere, and you begin to understand that without Jesus Christ I have no hope, no No, no, no eternity, no forgiveness. And my friend, you begin to understand all I need is Jesus. He surmises and he comes to this understanding of his state in verse 9. He says, But be found in him not having mine own righteousness. Which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. Now he had religion. He had the dirty, filthy rags of religion. He had that. He wore them like the emperor did his new clothes He wore them and said, look at what a good man I am. And you say, well, oh preacher, we're much better than that. We're not Judaizers. No, but we've got Baptists that are about as bad. And they wear the dirty, filthy rags of being a Baptist. Well, I'm a Baptist. I asked a man one time, I said, When did you get saved? Well, he said, I've been a Baptist, I'm a Baptist. I said, well, that's not what I asked you. I said, when did you get saved? He said, well, listen, I was Baptist born and Baptist bred, and when I die, I'll be Baptist dead. I said, sir, you're dead already. You're dead in your trespasses and sin. There's no salvation in being a Baptist. I'm telling you, the only hope we have, the only glory we can glory in, is in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And Paul realizes that I had no righteousness in all of that. Yes, he kept the law to the degree that he was blameless. Wow. He's doing better than most people I know. He was zealous for the keeping of the law and the observing of all these ceremonies, but he said all of that that didn't cover my sin It was it was a useless question. I know it's hard to believe as hot as it's been, but it's going to get cold maybe, probably, one day here in Maryland And have you ever been outside on a very cold day without an adequate coat? And you thought, well, I you know I don't need that. I don't need that coat. I remember teaching my son, we went bear hunting one time, it was Very cold. And I told him before he left the house, I said, put warm clothes on. We're going to sit lots of hours. It's 20 below. You need to be warm. I didn't pay attention. I'm hunting. That's what I 'm I'm hunting. And so he gets in the truck and we're we drive we get back to the stand. I get up in the stand and I hear him back there. His little teeth are chattering. I say, Shh, you're gonna scare him off. I'm cold. I said, well get tough. You're gonna have to just get over it. I'm cold. I said, did you not put warm clothes on? And I I turned around and looked. He's got a little fall jacket. He's got unlined rubber boots and one little pair of socks. I said, son, you're going to freeze. I know I'm trying to tell you, I'm going to freeze to death. I said, well I came to bear hunt. You're just gonna have to get tough, buddy. I did give him one of my coats and cover him a little bit, but you know what? It didn't happen. He he found out too late That he didn't have enough to keep him warm. I'm afraid a lot of people are going to stand in the presence of Almighty God And they're going to be uncovered as far as righteousness is concerned. They've wore the dirty rags of religion. They've wore the dirty rags of their goodness. They've wore the dirty rags of their morality. They've said, Well, I'm a good person. I've I do good things. I'm a part of the church. But they've never been to Jesus Christ. They've never been born again from above. And because of that, they're going to stand naked and open before him with whom we have to do. And they're going to hear these terrible words, depart from me. I never knew you. Oh, dear friend, hear me today. You must have the righteousness of Christ. Every substitute is no substitute. If you're not born again, you're missing out on what God's provided. I was a chaplain with the Haywood County Hospital for four years. And we had training once a month, and I was sitting at a lunch With an old Salvation Army preacher and one of the Methodist ministers in town. The Salvation Army preacher was one of the old school Salvation Army when they were an army and they were concerned about salvation. Brother Henry was a born-again man. He lived his whole life working in those little mountain communities. They loved him up there because he loved them. had some connection in Second World War and they had a bad blizzard come through. Some four plus feet of snow fell in those mountains and a lot of people were starving. And he was able to get food and medicine and clothes dropped in there. Everywhere he went, people would hear him because of the life that he lived. He loved God. He was born again. He was one of those that had got to the place in life he didn't care if you liked him or not. In fact, he cared about one thing, pleasing the Lord. He was so serious and so so so stern about about living for God and I I loved to be around him. We in fact lived close to one of the little missions there up on the mountain. and uh got to know him real well. And he would always sit and we'd talk and enjoy fellowship. That Methodist minister sat across the table and whether he was nervous or just whatever, he was running his mouth and talking about and he got talking about all his sin. And buddy, he got rather graphic about all of his sin, and he's going on and on and and I'm just sitting there, I don't know what to say. I'm I'm twenty-one years old. I'm sitting here with that that dear old brother Henry and and I can see him. He's getting ready to say something, and what he's going to say is not going to be politically correct, and it likely is not going to be taken real well And I just kept my mouth shut. I'm eating. This man's talking. He's talking about how wicked things he does and looks at and how he lives and all that. And Brother Henry never looked up from his plate. He simply said, sounds like to me, preacher, talking to me. That man needs a good old-fashioned dose of Holy Ghost salvation. He needs to be born again. That man got red. And he got quiet, and he never spoke another word. He might have been a member of the clergy, but he had not been born again I'm saying to you that when Paul surveyed his life and he compared his life, he said, everything I had is not, listen, your pride's not worth trading Christ for Whatever it is that may be keeping you from Jesus, you ought to throw that thing out the window and run to him. There's nothing like Christ. Paul spent the rest of his life saying He's better than Judaism. He's better than the law. He's better than the ceremonies. He's better than everything you compare him to. And let me close here. You'll notice a change. A profound and wonderful change. My Bible still says if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. All true conversions lead To visible change. Well, preacher, I got saved, but nothing really changed. Well, hold on a minute. Did you get saved? I'm not here to question your salvation. But I'm here to help you understand something, that when a person gets saved, it changes, or rather, he, Christ, changes their life. You'll notice it changed Paul's speech. We've already been there, but listen, in Acts 9, verse 1, he's breathing out threatenings. Boy he's spewing venom. His mouth is full of vile hatred for those Christ followers, and especially for that man Jesus. Hear him say in verse 5, Who art thou, Lord? What wilt thou have me to do? His tongue 's been transformed, his speech has been changed. Friend, I got news for you. There's a God in heaven who reaches down in the depths of a man's heart and changes it to the point that it will change his speech. You ought to ask the Lord to help you and understand where you are if your language is no different than it was before you so-called met Christ. If your words are still filthy, if your jokes are still dirty, if your language is still vile, you need to say, Oh God, what's wrong with me? Have I met the Savior? Because the Savior will change your speech. He took the threatenings right out of the mouth of that man and put in him that humble request, Oh, who art thou? And what wilt thou have me do? You'll notice the seeking. His seeking has changed. What he's after. He's going after something else. You notice in verse 2 he had letters. He was on his way, he had he he desired letters to Damascus, and he took those letters and he was going to bring those people bound. Can I ask you a question? Whatever happened to those letters? I don't know if he tore them up, burned them up, threw them away. I'll tell you this much, they didn't matter anymore. He he had arrest warrants. Can I say it like that? He had arrest warrants for Christians. And if you've ever been involved in law enforcement, those arrest warrants are very viable documents. They're binding, they're powerful, and you just don't throw them around and leave them on the counter or put them on the kitchen table or put them up on the refrigerator somewhere. They're very important. These were arrest warrants, and yet you never hear a thing about them. After that, he no longer is seeking uh the the the destruction of these Christians. In verse 5, he's saying, Lord, what do you want me to do? Lord, who you want? What is it? I'm no longer bowing to the will of the Sanhedrin. I'm no longer bowing to the rulers in Judaism. I'm bowing to you, Jesus. What is it you want me to do? Oh dear friend, as the Lord rearranged your life to where you're seeking something different. Don't tell me that all you can seek is the world and say you know Christ. Please don't bring such shame on the glorious gospel if your only appetites are for things carnal and temporal and things of time, and say, I'm one who's prepared for eternity. Oh, how he'll change you so that you'll seek something different. One of the ways you know a person's saved because they want to see somebody else get saved. They want to see another person get born again. They've got a heart for the lost. They have a burden for those that don't know the Lord. They're seeking to live their lives to please God. Don't tell me for a minute you can live your whole life pleasing you and then be ready to face God and say now Lord that I'm in heaven, I'm ready to please thee. Oh no, listen, there's going to be a change. He was concerned about those letters until he got converted, and when he got converted, he got concerned about the Lord. And then notice his standing. Look how it changed. In verse 2, he's on his way. He's going to bind some men and women and bring them back to Jerusalem. But God steps in. And now, in verse 20, he's preaching Christ. He's standing in the synagogue doing just exactly what he had earlier condemned. He's preaching the Lord Jesus. His life had been forever changed because he met the Lord. He's now telling about Jesus. We come to Philippians 50 times in four chapters. 12-minute conversation, he's Christ, Christ, Christ, Christ, Christ, Christ, Christ, Christ. You listen to someone when they talk. You'll find out where they are. Some of us need to listen to ourselves when we talk. Because you'll find out where you are. What do we talk about? You know, if you believe water saves, all you talk about is water. Well, I was baptized. I was baptized. I was baptized. You can be baptized till the tadpoles know your social security number and still die and go to hell. Because water won't save you You can light candles and join the church and be a member of every denomination. And by the way, there's so many, many more. It's hard to even keep caught up with it And you can say, I'm a part of this group and that group and all these other groups, and listen, not one of those groups can save you. But a person that's been saved by grace knows the value of of the person of the Lord Jesus. Listen to them a little while. Listen to their talk. And before long they'll get around to talking about Jesus. Before long they'll get around to talking about who he is and what he's done and the who who he's what what he's done in their life and how he works and and what he can do for you because I'll tell you, Jesus has made a change. Now, if you had to pen these words for to me to live, what would you write down? What would you write down? Not what you're supposed to write down, but what would you write down? If you had to sit down this evening and say, I've got to write this out so when I'm gone, my family will know what I live for. For to me to live is. For some of you to be honest, you'd have to put whatever your occupation is, because that's what you've lived for. For some to be honest, they'd have to write, well money, so that's what I live for. I live for money If if some were to be honest, they'd have to say, Well, I live for my pleasure. I live for my hobby. I live for that thing that I enjoy. Now I'm not saying it's wrong to have pleasure, enjoy, or have hobbies, but if that's what you live for, it's wrong. You say, but what if I were to be honest for me to listen, thank God for family, but please hear what I'm about to say. If your family comes before your Lord, your family's out of order. For to me to live is family. Oh no, for me to live is Christ. And only the person who can say, For to me to live is Christ. Can ultimately say, and to die is gain. Now, friend, let's be honest this morning. What are we living for? Has that life started in you? Is there a moment where you can say, preacher, I met him there? Wherever there may be. I met him there. He changed my life. Oh, I'm not everything I ought to be, but hallelujah, I'm not what I used to be. And thank God I'm not what I'm going to be either, because he's going to make a bounty changing me one of these glad days. But friend, is there that moment? If there is that moment, let me ask you something. Are you living? Are you living for him? What are you living for? Soon, our time will be up. Now we don't live like we believe that. But if we really believed that soon we'd stand before the Lord, you know what this is? This is just a dressing room. For all of eternity. That's all it is. Little window. Get in here, get ready to live forever with the Lord. What are you living for? If you're saved and it's not the Lord, you need to turn around and get on track. If you're not saved, you need to come to the Lord Jesus and trust him. Do you know this morning he can save you in this building? He can save you in your home. He can save you wherever you're at. Hospital, nursing home. Whatever, wherever you might may find yourself this morning, he can save you right there. At that place where you're willing to cry out to him, Lord. Be merciful to me, a sinner. Lord, have mercy, save me. Lord, please, listen, the moment you cry out to him is the moment he'll meet you where you're at. Will you call on him? Dear Christian, may the Lord help us. I'm going to camp in this text for a while. Because it's so rich. It's like so much of the Bible and all the Bible. There's just so much in it. Yes, this is the beginning of life, but there's so much more. There's so much more Are we living for him? I mean, are we living? Is Christ the reason we live? You get up in the morning. What are you getting up in the morning for? Well, I gotta go to work because I got bills to pay. So I can have a roof over my head and food in my in my refrigerator. And I'm gonna come home and I'm gonna sleep and then I'm gonna go to bed a and get up and I'm gonna go to work again so I can put a roof over my head. Boy, that's an awful hamster wheel to run in. There's more. There's glorious more. For to me to live is Christ. Paul said, listen, I I don't know what you're going to do with me if you're going to take my life or you're going to set me free. If you set me free, I'm going to go on living for Jesus like I have been. I'm going to go on telling others about him. I'm going to go on living my life surrendered to his will. How are you going to live your life as you go from this place? For to me to live is, you fill in the blank. But be careful how you fill in the blank. Because soon you'll give an account for what's been put in that little space. Would you stand with me? As we prepare