I want you to open your Bibles please to the book of Acts, chapter number eight. Acts chapter number eight, and when you find your place there, would you stand with me please? I'd like to read this passage beginning in verse number twenty-six. Something if you've read much of the scripture you're very well familiar with. But let's ask the Lord to speak to us this morning. Acts chapter 8 and verse 26. Notice that the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise and go toward the south, unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is desert. And he arose and went. And behold, a man of Ethiopia, and eunuch of great authority, under Candace, queen of the Ethiopians. who had the charge of all her treasure, and had come to Jerusalem for to worship, was returning and sitting in his chariot, read Isaiah the prophet. Then the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near, and join thyself to this chariot. And Philip ran thither to him and heard him read the prophet Isaiah, and said, Understandest thou what thou readest? And he said, How can I, except some man should guide me? And he desired Philip that he would come up and sit with him. The place of the scripture which he read was this: He was led as a sheep to the slaughter, and like a lamb dumb before his shearer, so opened he not his mouth. In his humiliation, his judgment was taken away. And who shall declare his generation? For his life is taken from the earth. And the eunuch answered Philip and said, I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet this? Of himself or of some other man? Then Philip opened his mouth and began at the same scripture and preached unto him Jesus. And as they went on their way, they came unto a certain water. And the eunuch said, See, here is water. What doth hinder me to be baptized? And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart thou mayest. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. And he commanded the chariot to stand still. And they went down both into the water, both Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him. And when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord called away Philip that the eunuch saw him no more. And he, speaking of the eunuch, went on his way, rejoicing. But Philip was found at Azurtus, and passing through he preached in all the cities till he came to Caesarea. The Lord helping me this morning, I want to preach on this thought of reaching one. Reaching one. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, as we come into your presence again this morning, we ask that you would speak to our hearts in a very special way. Lord, I don't know what it is that you desire to do for us, but we do anticipate, Lord, that you wish to work. And I pray, Father, we'd be tender to the leading of the Spirit, be obedient to your voice. I pray, Father, that you would hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. I ask you, Lord, to do that work that is needed in all of our hearts, for Lord, we need thee. We thank you, Lord, for the privilege and place that you've given us to assemble. And Lord, help us to be true worshipers here this morning. Help us to be like those that you are seeking, those that worship in spirit and in truth. And Lord, for all that you do and for all that you are, we're very careful to praise you and thank you and give you glory, for you alone are worthy. For it's in Jesus' mighty name we pray, and God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. Just one matters to God. Just one. Did you notice in Luke 1910 the wording of that? For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that, not those, but that which was lost. That is a specific word. It speaks of a singular. He's seeking the sinner. You know how people get saved? One soul at a time. He's interested in one. In fact, Jesus gave a parable, and I want us to read it together. Go back to Luke 15 for a minute. And in Luke chapter fifteen, Jesus taught this parable starting in verse number three. And in the Gospel of Luke chapter 15 and verse number 3, he spake this parable unto them, saying, What man of you having a hundred sheep? If he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness and go after that which is lost until he find it. And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost. I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance. Tell me, does one matter to God? By the way, if you were that one, it'd matter to you. You know, in this day of big and everything big is better, supposedly, we have forgotten the value of one. But he's still looking for one. He's still reaching those ones. Spurgeon made this statement. He said if we had to preach to thousands year after year. And never rescued but one soul. Just one. That one soul would be a full reward for all our labor. For a soul is of countless price. Now one is so important that God said, Philip, leave Samaria and go to the desert. Just that one. One's important to the Lord. I want you to see something here this morning. Very simple thought, but I pray the Lord will use it to speak to our hearts. I want you to notice first this willing servant. We're introduced to him here in Acts chapter number eight. His name is Philip. Philip was a deacon, we know that. He was a deacon in the early church, the first church. But not only was he a deacon, but he was an evangelist, and he went out preaching the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. But I want you to notice some things about him that are peculiar, I guess. They're specific things that are recorded in the Bible because it's the kind of servants that the Lord is looking for today. I want you to notice first the sacrifice of this willing servant. Do you notice what it says when the Lord spoke to him? He said, now arise. Go toward the south under the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is desert So I want you to go down to the desert. But wait a minute, Lord, I'm up here in Samaria. By the way, go back a few verses and read with me that Philip went down to the city of Samaria and preached Christ unto them. Verse 6 says, and the people with one accord. Now I take that to mean the whole city. That the whole city seemed to follow Christ. You say, preacher, that's not possible. Well, it is if the Lord's doing. The Lord can turn a whole city, that's nothing to him. And they with one accord gave heed unto those things which Philip spake, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did. For unclean spirits, crying with a loud voice, came out of many that were possessed with them, and many taken with palsies, and them that were lame were healed. And there was great joy in that city. Why? Because Philip preached Christ unto them. Now God's doing something there. God was doing a work there. People were getting saved. Christians were growing in the Lord. This was something exciting to be a part of. And God says, now fill it, leave. Now, I think sometimes we read our Bibles with a philosophical mindset rather than a personal understanding. Understanding that here he is and he's a man and he's seeing God do great things, it's exciting to see people get saved. It's exciting to see the Christians growing. And the Lord comes along and says, Now Philip, let's go. You mean I gotta leave this? So where are we going, Lord? Are we going to another city to see this done? No, we're going to a desert. By the way, I don't know a lot about deserts, but I know you just don't go live in them. Not in this day. Now you might in our day when you got air air conditioning and irrigation. But not in that day you did not dwell in the desert. Desert wasn't place to go. But it was where God told him to go I want you to see this willing servant. He was willing to make the sacrifice. I love what the Bible says here concerning him, and that verse 27, simply he arose and went. Oh, I'm sure he was a man like you or me, and that he probably had questions. He wasn't sure what the Lord was doing. And it wasn't an easy thing for him to do. And by the way, If you are ever a willing servant, you've got to learn to do the things that aren't easy to do. It's not easy to be inconvenienced to reach somebody, and by the way, you've got to be. If we're going to reach one, that means we've got to step out of our comfort zone. We've got to go beyond what the norm is. In fact, we've got to sacrifice maybe our own comfort for the good of some soul. In other words, it it may mean that that that we've got to lay aside our pride and maybe our own personal activities and say it's important to me to go reach one. He made a sacrifice But then I want you to notice his sensitivity. Two times here the Bible says the Lord spake unto Philip. Verse 26 told him to go south. By the way, he gives him just sort of the general direction. But someone said: if you'll take steps in the general direction, God will give you more detailed direction. And so he started going as the Lord instructed him to go. And then in verse 27 he we introduced here to this Ethiopian, and it says in verse 29 that the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near. And join thyself to his chariot. Now, let me just say this. Think again in personal things. Here is a man who oversaw the treasury of the queen. He wasn't traveling in a broken down chariot just hoping that old donkey will make it across the desert. He was probably traveling in a great entourage of people. And there was no doubt in my mind that he was a guarded man and that he was he was surrounded by he was an important person And yet Philip, understanding that the Lord had told him to go join, he sort of pushed through all of that and got to that chariot and joined himself to that chariot. See, it's important that we be sensitive to the Lord. Why? Because the Lord knows. Now the Lord knew what was going on. Philip didn't necessarily. You and I don't always know why the Lord tells you to do what he tells you to do, but you better do what he tells you to do because he knows what he's doing. He knows why he tells you to speak to that person. You ha ha have you ever had the Lord say, Now go talk to them about the Lord? And maybe we failed the Lord and and we have to turn around and go back and say, Well I gotta talk to them because the Lord told me to go do that. You you and I don't know all that the Lord knows, but but we must be sensitive here to the Lord. Notice his sensitivity. So A willing servant will make a sacrifice. A willing servant will be sensitive to the Holy Spirit. I want you to notice this single focus. The Bible says in verse 5, when he went to Samaria, he preached Christ. And then if you'll go down in verse 35, you'll find out when he got in the chariot, he preached Jesus. Same person. That was his focus. And let me say: if you're going to be that willing servant, you've got to get your focus on the Lord Jesus. It's him we preach. We preach Christ. That's who we preach. We're going to be going out on visitation and and we're not preaching our church. Now, I believe you ought to uh love the church you go to. I believe you ought to be excited about the church you're a part of. But we don't preach our church. We preach Christ. We don't preach our denomination, though I believe you ought to be fully convinced in your mind that you're in the right way. In fact the matter is, if I believed there was a church closer to the New Testament than the Independent Baptist, that's exactly what I'd be. But I do believe, and I'm convicted in my heart That the independent Baptist is as close to the New Testament as we have today, and that's what I am, but I don't preach independent Baptist. We preach Christ A willing servant takes that single focus and says, Jesus is the answer. And we go forth proclaiming. And now This willing servant. Now watch him. He's a willing vessel in the hand of the Lord. And I've got to ask you this morning. I've got to ask you. See, I'm not a deacon. I'm off the hook. Well, hold on a minute. You say, I'm not an evangelist. It's not my responsibility. Are you saved? Are you saved? Are you saved this morning? If you're saved, lift your hand. I'm saved. by the grace of God, then you have a command from the Lord to preach the gospel. Every one of us do. The Bible says, go ye into all the world and do what? Preach the gospel. We're to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus, we who are saved. By the grace of God. We have been given a commission to go, and he said, Here I am. I'm a willing servant. I'm willing to go and preach this gospel message. But the question is this morning, are you willing? I'm glad somebody was willing for the eunuch's sake. By the way, if you're saved, you ought to be glad somebody was willing for your sake. Did somebody tell you? Of course they told you. Everybody had somebody who told them about the Lord. But are you and I are we willing servants? Are we as individuals willing to be a Philip? Willing to make a sacrifice and say, Lord, and listen, for some it may be greater than others, but nevertheless, if we obey the Lord, I believe it always requires some sacrifice. Something that I lay aside for the Lord so I can do what it is He wants me to do. Are you willing? Am I willing? Is there a willingness in our heart? You say, well, preacher, they'll make fun of me. By the way, how many of you found out they make fun of you anyhow? Well we worry about silly things, don't we? Well, they might think I'm one of them. Well, what are you one of them what? One of them saved people? One of those people who love the Lord? Well, I I don't know what I what you might want people to think about you. You know, the culture, I was reading this morning, this text is really burning my heart. Be not conformed to this world. Do you know the world's got a mold it's trying to put us all in? There's pressure there. There's pressure that comes from the world. But not only is there pressure there, but there is the tendency of my old evil heart to want to fit in that mold. And there's pressure there. But aren't you glad for that next part? But be you transformed. By the renewing of your mind. When the Word of God does its work in our hearts, we push back on the mold. We push back on the world. We push back and say, I don't want to fit in that. You saved me out of that. I'm no longer a part of that. And we become a part of the fellowship of the unashamed. Paul said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. Why? It's the power of God unto salvation. What have we got to be ashamed of in our precious Lord? Well, I want you to see that the Lord is still looking for willing servants It was good for Philip's day that he was a willing servant. Thank God somebody was. But let me ask you, are you a willing servant today? What about today? What about that place where you work? Are there some folks like this eunuch that maybe are gonna be gonna be what we're gonna see in a moment, that waiting center? Well, that waiting sinner is not going to get help unless there's some willing servants. Unless there's some individuals who are carry the gospel to them. Quickly, notice with me this waiting sinner. We're introduced to him here. We're just simply told he's the man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under Candace, Queen of the Ethiopians. He had charge of all of her treasure and had come to Jerusalem for to worship. I want you to notice something about him. First off, he's searching. Do you see that? He came from Ethiopia. To Jerusalem. And he's on his way back. Say how far? 1,500 miles. 1500 miles. He didn't have a Cadillac to ride in. Says he was in a chariot. So here's the man traveling some 1500 miles. Why? Because he's looking for something. I I believe with all my heart that that sinners are searching, they just don't know what they're looking for. They're lost. And here he is, and he thinks perhaps by the way, you say, how can you call him lost? He's a religious man. He's carrying uh at least part of Isaiah's scroll He's carrying a part, he's carrying Isaiah 53 with him at least, and maybe more. He's a religious man, obviously. He had been up there to worship. He had been to the temple. He had been there worshiping among the Jews Can I remind you that religion does not save you? Nor does it satisfy you. In John chapter 3, a very religious man came to Jesus. He had all the answers as far as the Old Testament was concerned. He was a very religious man, high up, leader among the pack, and Jesus said, You must be born again. He knew all he had a lot of the answers. He knew a lot of the scripture, but he did not know Jesus. I want you to notice this as that dear man is searching. He's looking. Now this waiting sinner is searching, but then notice the work of the scriptures. He's reading the Bible and we get to verse 31, and here's what he says, how can I except some man should guide me? He's got questions about the Bible. He said, I don't understand. By the way, unless you're saved, the Bible's a closed book If if that Bible is makes no sense to you, if that Bible is darkness to you, if there's nothing in that word of God that that you can understand, you can know this for sure. The Bible is a spiritually discerned book. And and and only the saved can really understand it. Did you ever notice when you got saved and read the Bible how much more sense it made? It wasn't because you got smart overnight, it's because you got saved And because the Spirit of God started doing that work in your heart, your eyes are open, the blinders are took off, you're not dead in your trespasses and sin anymore. But here he is, he says, I need a man to guide me. This waiting sinner. He's certainly searching and he's got a hold of the scriptures, and then we've got next what I'm going to call a setup. Have you ever seen God set somebody up? He set up. And the eunuch answered Philip and said, I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet this? Of himself or of some other man? Who's he talking about? Now friend, I'm telling you a blind goose could lead this man to cross. Here is a man, I mean he's just he says, who 's he talking about? He's reading Isaiah 53. The man talking about that one who was wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities. Who is that? Prophet or somebody else? I mean, talk about a setup. It was literally put in his hands. By the way, you say, what is that? That's God at work. That's God at work. You'll not convince me that God's not interested anymore in sinners. The Bible says that He's not willing that any should perish. He's still looking for sinners to save. He's still searching for that lost one. He's still in the listen, it's not the will of God for any man to die and go to hell. He's looking for, he's searching for And friend, he's willing to say, but I believe the problem is the problem is, where are the willing servants? Have you ever what if the Bible? And I'm not doing it irreverently, please. But have you ever said, What if Philip didn't go? What if Philip said, I'm comfortable here, Lord? What if Philip had said, I'm busy, Lord, they need me here. This thing won't go on without me. How many of you know that nothing really totally depends on you? He he said, Well what if he had said, Look, I'm not gonna do it, Lord, I just can't go down there. I'm too busy, too many people get saved up here, and so on. What if? You know what if would have What if, as far as we know, concerning man, here was a eunuch that went on his way back to Ethiopia, still lost in his sin. See, it's when the waiting sinner meets a willing servant that the wonder of salvation can occur. Now God could save anybody any way he chose to. I was listening to the a little bluebird sing this morning out on the branch, and I thought, you know, God could have let him preach the gospel. He could have. They get up and they sing. They could s I mean he could have sung the gospel. He could have done that. He could have sent angels from heaven to fill the clouds and and and they could they could preach the gospel. He could have done that. But he's chosen to save sinners like you and me and turn us around and send us out and say, now go tell them. Go tell them. So here we have that willing servant and that waiting sinner. And I believe when you have willing servants, you will often find waiting sinners. God makes sure their paths intersect. I've stopped long time ago praying for opportunities and praying for open eyes to see them Because they're everywhere. God brings them our way. And if we're those willing servants, you rest assured you're going to run into a waiting sinner. And then what happens? Well, we see thirdly the wonder of salvation. Verse 35, it says that Philip opened his mouth and began at the same scripture and preached unto him Jesus. And as they went on their way, they came unto a certain water, and the eunuch said, See, here is water. What doth hinder me to be baptized? And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart thou mayest, and he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. I want you to notice the saving person here. Who did he preach? He preached Jesus. I think I know what this person meant, but I talked to someone not long ago, and I asked if they were saved, and here's what they said. Oh yeah, Pastor Dixon saved me years ago And I thought, sir, Pastor Dixon didn't save nobody. And I believe if that dear man was still alive, he'd stand here and tell you that I don't save nobody. Jesus saves. Jesus saves. That's the person of salvation. Now I know sometimes young Christians don't know, or Christians that don't grow. We use terms that are just not accurate. But the truth of the matter is the saving person, you know what Philip did? He laid in front of that man the person of Jesus Christ. He preached the death, he preached the burial, he preached the resurrection. He said, There's only one who can save you, uh, Mr. Eunuch. It's not the law of Judaism, it's not the temple, it's not the ritual, it's not the ceremony. It's that one that they nailed on a cross. And then they took him down, and three days later, when he was put in the grave, three days later he got up and he's alive. And if you ask him, if you'll call on him, he'll save you. Saying that, I want you to notice the sinner's profession. Here's what the eunuch said. I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. You see his profession? Now one thing I don't see here is a prayer. I'm not saying he didn't pray, but it's not here. There's no prayer written down. But there is a profession. Do you know what Romans 10 says? With the heart man believeth unto righteousness. With the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. Here is a man that God was working in his heart. He understood who Jesus was, and his profession was: I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. You know what happened to him? He was saved. Just as saved, saved as you can possibly be. You know in Matthew fifteen, I believe it is, or sixteen Jesus was cornering his disciples and he said, Who do you say that I am? And Peter spoke up. He said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. You know what Jesus said to him? Blessed art thou. Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father. He said, It you didn't get that information on your own. Salvation is still of the Lord. It it it doesn't you you you don't just figure it out one day. Oh no, it's when you come to the Lord Jesus and you call look when you come to Him as a helpless sinner and see Him as the only Savior I'm telling you, he does the work in your heart. That's what's happening here. I believe. And he wasn't just saying I believe in an intellectual way, he believed in a saving way. He was committing himself to the Son of God for his salvation. He was putting his eternal soul in the hands of another. Isn't that hard to do? Do we have any control freaks here? Isn't it hard to do? I'll be honest with you, it's hard to get in a car and ride with somebody because they're in control. Good or bad driver. I I mean regardless, good or bad driver. It it's hard to sit there and know that your life is in their hands. And you're thinking, you know, some of you don't think, but I think when I get in a car, and I think probably too much when I get in a car. So therefore I don't get in too many cars as somebody else driving. But the truth of the matter is, is that we all uh have trouble with putting everything in the hands of another. Years ago I remember going to the doctor and I had gotten some food lodged in my throat. And I'm sitting there, he's probably about twenty-eight or nine, he's a young man from China. And he's the doctor who's going to go in there and take that scope and push everything through and take care of me. And I said to him sitting there, I said, How many of these have you done? He said, Well, quite honestly, not many. I said, that kind of bothers me. He said, Well, I don't think you can do it. I said, You're right. I can't do it. He said there's nobody else here to do it. I said, well, get it done. Just get it done. We don't like someone else being in control But you won't get saved. Hear me now. You will not be saved until you lay it all on the Lord Jesus Christ. You it you can't save yourself, you can't help him save you, you can't add one iota of of effort on your part, it must be him and him alone. He alone saves. You'll notice his profession. He says, I believe. I believe. I'm committing it all. I'm laying it all on his hands. I believe that he's the Christ, the Son of the living God. I believe. And what a profession it was. Didn't notice this. By the way, it wasn't empty either. Because the Bible says in verse 38 he commanded, he commanded, the eunuch commanded. He was the only one who could command the chariot. He said, Stop the stop the chariot, stand still. And they went down both into the water, both Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him. I want you to notice what happened here. Here is a step of obedience. A step of obedience. You can say all the things you want to say, but it's how you live that shows what you believe. You know what he said? I believe I want to be baptized. That's the first step of obedience. That's the first step of obedience. Bible, dear friend, if if that step's never taken, rarely is victory ever gotten. I don't know how many folks I've seen they they make a profession of faith and they struggle. I'm thinking of a brother right now. He's in heaven because water don't save you. And I believe that dear man was saved by the grace of God, but he struggled with this thing of being baptized. He said to me one day, Uh his proper name was Harvey. Everybody called him Buster. And uh Buster said, uh why don't you and I go fishing out on the marsh sometime? I said, I'd love to go He said, let's take the canoe. And he said, when we get out in the deep part of the uh of that marsh there, he said, turn the canoe over and jump in and baptize me real quick I said, Buster, I'm not going to do that. And he had issues with the water and all that. But here's the thing. You know what he did his whole Christian life? He struggled. His Christian life was a circle of disobedience, failure, getting right with God. Disobedience, failure, getting right with God. He just walked in circles. Like the children of Israel for 40 long years. All they did is go in circles. Why? He never took the first step of obedience. I'm saying, brother and sister, it's important to obey the Lord. Obedience doesn't save you. Obedience says, I'm saved. It shows the proof that our faith is in the Lord Jesus Christ. My, what a wonder was wrought here. Now, something pretty unusual happens here after they came up out of the water. The Bible says that Philip was caught away, carried him off. Wouldn't that be strange? That means something. I mean that he's that he baptized him and then poof he's gone. He carries him off But then notice this, didn't seem to affect that unit because he went on his way rejoicing. That's a puzzle to me too, Brother Andy. I mean he didn't go looking for Philip. He wasn't worried. You know why? He had got something bigger than a man. He wasn't worried about what happened to Philip. He just knew he was saved now. I'm going home to tell it. God had saved this man. You know the greatest miracle God ever does is not carry a man from point A to B miraculously. The greatest miracle that God does is not when he heals the sick or makes the lame to walk or Things of that nature, the greatest miracle God ever does is when he saves a sinner and sends them on their way rejoicing. Here's a man confused and full of questions, and yet now he's saved and he's on his way home with the answer He went on his way rejoicing. The greatest miracle that God does is save souls. We see the wonder of salvation. Now watch this, please. We have a willing servant who intersects a waiting sinner, and what occurs is the wonder of salvation. And friend, that story could be told a thousand times over. Once there was a willing servant that came to you. You were a waiting sinner. And the wonder of salvation occurred. And God multiplies that over and over and over and over again. I read just this morning of a young man who was presented on this day in 1856 for membership to his church. This young man had to have someone stand with him, which was the custom of that day, somebody to vouch for you. Somebody to speak up and say, I believe he's a Christian. And then he was examined by a committee of men, and they asked him all sorts of questions. This man wrote No man in my entire life has had such a darkened mind about the gospel than him. But I believe he's saved. The committee wrote in their notes that this man was very ignorant about the things of God. And perhaps will never be publicly useful. But he's sincere and we believe he's saved. And so they accepted him into the membership. It's interesting to me that this man joined the Mount Vernon Church. And young Dwight Lyman Moody would become a powerful evangelist who shook two continents for the Lord. Somebody reached one. And that one got serious about reaching some more. Now let me ask you Why do all of our stories have to be back there? Preacher, I'm saved. That's good. Preacher, I used to witness. That's wonderful. Preacher, I have led people to the Lord years ago. What about now? What about today? See, I still believe there's Mr. Eunuchs out here somewhere. I still believe there's some folks like this man Who are searching sinners, they're waiting sinners, they're searching. Maybe they 've gone somewhere and bought a Bible and they're reading it trying to figure out what's going on in this crazy world. It may be you're going to meet them at the gas station, a complete stranger, or on their door when you purposefully knock on it. Or it may be that you'll you'll rub shoulders with them at work, or they may just live across the street. But they're those waiting sinners who need a willing servant who will take the gospel message and watch the wonder of salvation. You can't save them, but I can't save them, but Jesus sure can. All you've got to do is point them to him. Now I wonder this morning, dear Christian, are you a willing servant? Are we willing to say, Lord, I'll make the sacrifice and I'll get that single focus, get my eyes on the Lord, and I'll preach Jesus wherever I go. See, it's not your skill or ability God's looking for, it's your availability. Mr. Moody would confess himself that he was woefully ignorant. And felt even as he aged that he missed so much that he could have gotten. But he took what little he knew and he did with it what he could. And God took that little and he did a lot. Moody 's a living example of that little boy who took five loaves and two fish. That's all he had, but he sure fed a whole lot of people. He sure didn't have much, but what he had he gave to the Lord, and the Lord took that and he used it. Now, dear friend, are you going to be a willing servant? Are you going to be an individual who says, Lord, here, I want my life. What's your life going to count for? Have you ever stopped and thought about that? What's your life going to count for? Are you going to live and pay bills and build houses and dwell in them and drive cars and have a retirement and then get sick and old and die and be done and that's it and have leave nothing else behind Or are there going to be a parade of people when you get to heaven and say, I'm glad you're here. I've been waiting on you. Thank you for telling me. Thank you for pointing me. Thank you for sharing Christ with me. Thank you for being concerned about my soul. And you don't listen, so little would be done from a sacred desk. There's so much more that can be done out there in the secular workplace. There's so much more that can be done out there on the street. There's so much more that can be done wherever it is that you go. The gospel, look The gospel is not confined to an hour a week that we go and share it. No, that gospel is to be when we go to the marketplace, wherever we go, we go preaching Christ. The Bible says here in the beginning of this chapter, they went everywhere preaching the word. Men, women, young, old, every saved person, just wherever they went, they were scattered about just preaching the word. I've often said if we got as enthused as Americans about preaching the gospel as we do about our politics, we would win the world. We preach our parties and we preach our person. But do we preach our Savior? The Lord Jesus Christ. Now, friend, if that bothers you, you ought to stop and say, Why is that making me mad? Why does that upset me? I'll tell you why it upset you, because you're guilty. And you simply need to say Jesus is a whole lot more important than who sits down yonder in the White House. Because I'll tell you what, we can get the right person in politics, and that'll last four years in this country. And then guess what? It's gonna happen all over again. You get a person saved. That's eternal. Save forever. They're forever on their way to glory. Now they may struggle and they may have difficulty, they may fail. And disappoint the Lord in you. But if they're saved by the grace of God, they're saved, forever saved. Their sins are forgiven. They're heading home to glory. And when you leave this old world, you're going to see them up there once more. Now you tell me something better than that. What more to live for? It may be you're sitting here a waiting center, or you're listening. You say, what do you mean by that? Here's what I mean. You've not been saved, but yet you're hearing this morning that you can be That Jesus died for your sin. By the way, you say, if I was the only sinner, would he come looking for me? He sure would. I'll tell you what, if I was lost, I'd want somebody looking for me. I'd want somebody looking for me. I'd want somebody who knew where I was and knew where they could find me. When I was a younger man, we'd go in the woods and hunt and fish. I never thought to tell anybody where I went Elizabeth can tell you this day I'd go hunting and and we'd drive about a hour there on the on the hard road and then on the dirt road drive another hour and then walk about six or eight miles. And there's no way she could this day tell you where that place is. Nobody knew. Now as an old man, I look back and look, if I go to the store, I say, hey, I'm going to the store if I'm not back in ten minutes Come looking for me because I'm probably wandering somewhere if something hadn't happened, you know. If you get a call, Chris, come. But here's my point. You may be sitting here saying, nobody cares for me. I know I'm lost. You don't have to tell me that. My sins rise up and condemn me I got good news for you. Somebody looking for you. Somebody loved you enough to leave heaven and come and die on a cross. And he shed his blood so that you could be saved. And my friend, he conquered hell in the grave. And he's out looking for you. And the circumstances of your life have put you where you are so that you could meet him. God 's put it all together. Are you saved? Are you that waiting sinner? Listen, learn something from this Dear man, I believe you're the Son of God. He said, I'm putting everything I trust. I'm putting my soul, my eternity, I'm putting everything in this man named Jesus. Who died and buried and rose and rose again. What are you trusting in? Trust him. Friend, trust him. Trust him now, trust him without delay. Trust him from the depths of your heart. It's not some posture you assume in your body, it's not some words you profess with your lips, it's simply believing in your heart that Christ did what he said he would do and that he will save you if you'll cry out. And dear friend, he'll do that very thing. Don't complicate it with your works or with your religion. Just believe the record that God's given us of his son, and he'll save you. Are we willing servants or waiting sinners? That's the only kind of two, there's two people in this congregation. Two kinds of folks. God wants you, dear Christian, to be a willing servant. Some folks may need to surrender and say, Lord, I want you to use me. I've got so caught up in living, I'm not living. Not living. I'm just marking time. I want to start living, Lord. Lord, use me. I'm a willing servant. I believe there's some Christians who need to do that this morning. And there may be some lost people here today who need to trust the Lord. He's able. He's able to save you, you've not done too much or gone too far or too rotten for him to save you. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all unrighteousness. He'll put all your sin away. That's the power of what the blood he shed. Trust him, please. I don't know what you need to do concerning the Lord this morning. I'm just going to say one thing and we'll stand and pray. Mind him. Mind him. Let's stand together.