Number 4. First Timothy chapter number 4, and I want you to find verse number 12, and I'm going to read down to verse number 16. 1 Timothy chapter 4 verses 12 to 16. And when you find your place in your copy of God's Word, let's stand together. And I'm going to read these scriptures aloud 1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse number 12 says, Let no man despise thy youth. But be thou an example of the believers in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity. Till I come, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy. With the laying on of the hands of the Presbytery. Meditate upon these things. Give thyself wholly to them, that thy profiting may appear to all. Take heed unto thyself and unto the doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this thou shalt both save thyself and them that hear thee. The verse I want you to see this evening is found here in verse number 13. I want to magnify this statement. Till I come, give attendance to reading. Till I come, give attendance to reading. Heavenly Father, would you please use your word to work in our hearts for your glory and our eternal good. And Lord, for what you do, we'll be careful to praise you. We are a needy lot. I stand in need of your help, both as Lord the preacher and these that sit before me as hearers. We pray that God you'll do more than just speak to us through the ear gate, but in mercy would you reach our heart. And God challenge us and transform us and help us. And Lord, for all that you do, we'll give you the glory. Lord, hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up the Lord Jesus in a pleasing manner. And Father, we'll thank you for what you do, for we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. I want you to see that statement again made by the Apostle Paul to the young man Timothy, and it was not just instruction for Timothy. But it was instruction for the church and for every church and for every believer. The Bible tells us to give attendance to reading. Give attendance to reading The Lord helping me this evening, I want to challenge you in the reading of God's Word. Now, I found something recently that's sort of disturbing if it's true. Now, how many of you know there's a lot of things said that just aren't true? But uh it's very possible that it is true and very probable really. Of course, in experience I think it's very much so true, and maybe even a bit generous in the statement. The most recent poll that was taken of evangelical Christians stated that only 11% of professed Christians have ever read the Bible completely through. I'm talking about reading the Bible from the book of Genesis to Revelation. Maybe 11%. And personally, I think that's probably a bit gracious. And uh maybe it's probably even a little bit more. Now, this evening, if I were to say, how many of you don't do it? Please don't do it. I'm not here to embarrass anyone or put you on the spot. But how many of you have read your Bible in its entirety? How many could honestly raise their hand Say, preacher, I've read it from Genesis to Revelation. Now I'm I'm sure, I'm I'm almost a hundred percent sure that if I were to say, how many of you believe the Bible from cover to cover, there would be a hearty Amen. And there should be. Because it is God's Word. But isn't it a bit hypocritical to say I believe it and never read it I want you to think with me tonight about the reasons that we ought to read God's word in its entirety. I want to give you five Bible reasons and then give you a few practical helps, and then I'm going to give our church a personal challenge to read the Bible through in the new year. And if God spares us in the new year and allows us to meet together on the last meeting, whether it's a Sunday or Wednesday, I haven't looked yet. Whatever that last gathering may be, I want to recognize those who've read their Bible all the way through. Now I know some very humble pious soul is going to say, well, I'm going to read my Bible through and I don't want anybody to know it Well, uh maybe they're being true, but uh let's encourage one another. Let's encourage one another by saying, hey, I took the challenge, I read my Bible through, and I want to acknowledge that I've done that. I remember pastoring. I was up north pastoring and had a gentleman preach for me and he challenged us from God's word and he made this statement and he didn't care about people's feelings. He said, How many of you have read your Bible all the way through? He said, Come on now, I'll ask you a question. And he went through the whole congregation. How many of you have read your whole Bible through? And I sat there and thought, Well, I've been to Bible college. And I've studied every book of the Bible, but I've never systematically read my Bible all the way through. Now, before you throw rocks at this preacher, let me ask you, have you? I'm afraid there's a whole lot of people never read this whole book. Now, I want to challenge you tonight, not on guilt, not on pressure, not anything like that. I want to challenge you on what the Bible says about the Bible as reasons we ought to read it all the way through. If you're making notes, I want you to write it down. Go over to 2 Timothy with me in chapter 3 real quick. And I'm going to read one verse. It's verse 16. You know this, perhaps. The Bible says this, all scripture. Could you say those two words with me? All scripture. Is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. What's profitable? All scripture is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. All scripture. We ought to read the whole Bible all the way through because all is God's Word. All of the Bible is God's Word. Starting with Genesis and ending with Revelation, all of the Bible is God's Word. There's no part of the Bible, somebody said, Well, those red letters in the Bible are just a whole lot better. Well, it's all scripture. It's all given by inspiration of God. All of the Bible is inspired by God All of the Bible, those parts of the Bible that you don't like to read is given by inspiration of God. Those parts of the Bible that are difficult to read are given by inspiration of God. Those parts of the Bible that take a little more thinking to understand are all given by inspiration of God. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God. All of it's God's word, and all of it ought to be read. It's all God's word. Mark it down, please. Mark it down. I'm not guilty, not pressure. I just want you to know what the Bible says. The Bible says all scriptures given by inspiration of God, and all of it needs to be read. All of it needs to be read. Let me say quickly, number two. Go back to John, Gospel of John. We're going to look at several scriptures here, so be ready, please. John chapter number five. John chapter number five in verse number thirty-nine. John chapter five in verse number thirty-nine. Notice what the Bible says. The Bible says this is Jesus now speaking here, and he says, search the scriptures. For in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me. They are they which testify of me. The second reason we ought to read the entire Bible is because every book reveals Christ. Every book. You say, preacher, what about those Old Testament books? What about Malachi? What about Haggad? What about all of those other Amos and other books? Well what about those those uh books of the Bible that we have a hard time even pronouncing? They all reveal Christ. When Jesus spoke these words, what scriptures was he referencing? He was referencing the Old Testament. That's what they had. He said, they are they, these Old Testament scriptures, the Old Testament books of the Bible, those 39 books, all of them, he said, search them. Search them because they testify me. They'll tell you who I am. If you're wondering who I am, search the scripture If you want to know who I am, search the scripture. If you're not sure about who I am, search the scripture. If you want to know the truth about who I am, don't go to the internet. Search the scripture. Search the scripture. Jesus gave us good advice here, didn't he? He said, search the scriptures, for they are they which testify of me. I'm not going to take the time tonight, but you could take the Bible starting with Genesis and going forward. And in each book of the Bible you will find a revelation or an unveiling or a testimony of Jesus Christ. In the new year, we're getting ready to start a study on Sunday night of the book of Revelation. If you understand the first sentence in the book of Revelation, chapter 1, verse 1, you get the whole book. The revelation of Jesus Christ. That's what it is. And listen, it's not a revelation of the Antichrist, it's not a revelation. The f the false prophet and all of that, it's a revelation of Jesus Christ. And can I say this? All of the Bible is a revelation of Jesus Christ. It's an unveiling of who he is. You ought to read the whole Bible because it's in the Bible you see the whole person of the Lord Jesus Christ. How many of you know we live in a time where there are many Jesus is preached that are not the Jesus of the Word of God? There are Jesuses, but they're false Jesus. They're not the Jesus of the Scripture. But as you study the Word of God, you get a complete picture. You get the entire picture, you get the whole picture of who the Lord Jesus Christ is. Oh, I know it's good to read the Psalms and worship. a and and and be grateful for his love and his kindness and his mercy, but it's equally r uh wise to read the alarming judgments of the prophets, to know that he is a God of truth and a God of righteousness and a God of judgment. And that the same Lord Jesus who offers forgiveness is the same Lord Jesus who's going to bring down judgment one day on a rebellious people. Because the Bible gives you the whole story, the whole picture. I believe you ought to read all of the Bible because every part of the Bible reveals the Lord Jesus Christ. Isn't it beautiful to pick up your Bible and be reading back there in one of those minor prophets and realize that's Jesus? Here's Jesus. Right here. Right here on the or to read a Psalm. Have you noticed in many of the Proverbs that often Solomon will be giving principles and then all of a sudden he gets personal, and then all of a sudden he points to a person. He comes to the point where wisdom's talking, and I believe he's not talking about wisdom as far as as what God gives. He's not talking about wisdom That thought necessarily that he had, it's wisdom. It's the wisdom of God who we know to be Jesus Christ. And it's describing him. Man, it's beautiful to open your Bible and to see. And by the way, when you read your Bible, you ought to be looking for Him. How many of you know you find what you're looking for? You've got to be looking for the Lord Jesus. And when you read the pages of God's blessed word, be looking for Jesus, and you sure enough will find him. Dr. Hens took us through the tabernacle briefly this morning, and as he described portions of the of the tabernacle, he was talking about the likeness to the local church. But how many pictures were in there of the Lord Jesus Himself? How many pictures did we see of Christ? And there are many, many more that could be elaborated on because why? It's a book about him. Do you know in this church we have two hymn books? We do. We have the hymn book we sing from. We have the hymn book we preach from. This is a hymn book. It's an H I M book. It's all about him. It's a revelation of who Jesus Christ is. I ought to read the whole Bible. You ought to read the whole Bible because it reveals the Lord Jesus to us. Let me say quickly, number three, go with me over to the Gospel of Matthew. This is just one account of this, but in Matthew chapter 19, I want you to see something again that the Lord Jesus said. Matthew chapter number 19, begin reading in verse number 4. Matthew chapter 19 and verse number 4. The Bible says, and he answered and said unto them , Have ye not read? You want to highlight those four words, have ye not read That he which made them at the beginning made them male and female. Where was he quoting from? Yes, quoting from the Old Testament. What specific book? The book of Genesis. He says, and said, verse 5, for this cause shall a man leave father and mother and shall cleave to his wife, and they twain shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let no man put asunder Now, what was Jesus doing? Can I say this? Jesus was validating the Old Testament Scripture. If you will, he was putting his seal of approval, he was putting his amen, he was putting his exclamation point on the Old Testament scriptures. Do you know the Lord Jesus quoted from the Old Testament over 300 times? He quoted directly from 24 of the books. And as as many as as all of them literally, uh if if you put it all together, I believe he used all of the Old Testament in some form or fashion to reference it. You say, what are you getting at? Here's what I'm getting at. We need to read the whole Bible to get the complete picture. The Bible is not a series of disconnected books. It's not what it is. It's not a tale that that that's just told i in in in uh entirety here and then another tale and another story and another tale and i it no no. It's all interwoven. You ever watch something and get in on about half? And then you're trying to catch up the whole time and figure out what's going on. You're saying what why'd they do that? Well, if you'd have been here to start with, this is what they did, you know. And uh sometimes I get in trouble trying to watch something with my wife because I'm asking questions, why are they doing that? Well in that previous episode they did this that I 'm like what I didn't see it and and you know anyway I'm gonna leave that alone But but the reality is is that the Bible, you've you've got to understand, it's not a disjointed book. It's all connected. All sixty-six books are connected together by divine inspiration. It is one story unfolding in 66 phases. It's one story. It's one account. And listen, when you begin to read your Bible like that, it'll all make sense. There's a lot of the Bible that don't make sense to folks because they've never read other portions of the Bible that shed light on that part. You ever wonder about Ahithophel and why he was so bitter at David that he would turn as his trusted counselor and and s and literally uh you know be be willing to have David killed? For a lesser man to be king. You know why? Because it was his granddaughter that David defiled. Bathsheba was his granddaughter. And the bitterness that unfolded in Ahithophel's life cost him his life. But as you read the Bible, you start putting the pieces together. So much of the Bible will not make sense if you don't know the Bible as a whole. It's all woven together. It's like a garment like Jesus wore. That was woven from top to bottom. From Genesis to Revelation. And I believe it's safe to say that the statement of Revelation 1-1 would fit over the entirety of the Word of God. The revelation of Jesus Christ. In the book of Genesis, we're told he's coming. That seed's on its way. In the Gospel of Matthew, the scriptures declare he's here. He's here. In the Revelation, the Bible declares he's coming again. He's coming again. It's a very interwoven, interconnected uh story as it unfolds. And so we need to read the whole Bible, read the Bible in its entirety to get the complete picture. Fancy, now some of you gonna have to use your imagination because you've never lived in that day. How many of you remember getting love notes? Love letters? Come on now, surely. And and I imagine that that oftentimes they were they were more than than one page, right? Might be front and back, front and back. My wife and I went to school together, actually from kindergarten, or she didn't go to kindergarten, she's too smart I had to go. But uh from kindergarten on or from first grade on rather we went to the same school And it wasn't until our latter parts of school that we got to know each other. And uh of course we were still uh she was on the academically gifted side of the building, and I was uh on the other side. We'll just say that. of the building. But every once in a while our paths would cross. And so we'd be going from one class to another, and I loved it when I saw something in her hand when she was coming my way. And I realized that it was a note for me. And when she pulled that out and put it in my hands, I promise you, I did not go and just read about every third sentence. I want to know everything. It was important to me. I I wanted to read, I I I wanted to read in between the lines. You know what I'm talking about? I mean, I wanted to see how the punctuation mark was put. I wanted to see how it was folded together because it bore a special message. Now church, you've got a love letter from heaven. This is God's love letter to you. And every word, every jot, every tittle, every comma, every semicolon, ever colon, everything has purpose in the Word of God. And God wants to say something to you and we ought to with eagerness want to hear what it is God has to say. We ought to get the complete picture. Go with me, please, to the book of Romans. Romans chapter number fifteen Romans chapter number fifteen and verse number four The Bible says, for whatsoever things were written aforetime, were written for our learning. That we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. I believe the fourth reason we ought to uh read our Bible in its entirety is that we ought to read it for the things we can learn that will cause us to hope. The things that we can learn that cause us to hope. We are living in a very hopeless society. We live in a generation that seems to have given up on the very fact that there is any hope at all. There seems to be an overspreading mood of hopelessness and despair. But may I report to you That when you read the Word of God, you can't help but have hope. When you read what the Bible says and how God worked, how many of you when you read the Psalms can sympathize with with David and the other psalmists and realize that no matter the situation, no matter the difficulty, no matter the hardship, God is still God. And how he gives our hearts hope. He will fill you with hope. And listen, the place that you will find hope is in the precious Word of God. That's why we read it. Sometimes you'll be reading along and some Old Testament person, you'll see something in their life, and God will say that's something similar to what you're going through. That's very n that's very close to what you've encountered. And I want you to I I want you to see just exactly how it is that that I helped them and what I did. And aren't you encouraged when you see that and you start thinking Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, today, and forever. Or you read that Old Testament passage that says, I am the Lord, I change not. And to understand that the God who comforted Job is the God who will comfort you. And the God who walked through the storms of life with Daniel Shut the mouths of lines. Listen, the God who turned fire the favor of a community his way is the same God you serve today. And boy, this Bible gives us hope. And let me say, it's not a shot in the dark, it's not a pie in the sky, it's the blessed reality that God is God in every situation of life. He's just God No matter what it is or or what i is is against us, I love which teaches us if God be for us, who can be against us? And what does that mean? That just simply means it don't matter who is against us if God be for us. Because He is faithful. Oh, listen, the things that we can learn that cause us to hope. You know, you you can find some very encouraging things in places like the genealogies. I love them. You say, boy, when I get to that part of my Bible, I struggle. Well, I'll be honest with you, I struggle with the names. I struggle with the pronunciation of those names. I try not to do this from the pulpit. I believe right here everything we ought to give our best. Whether we're preaching or singing or testifying or praying, God deserves our very, very best. And as we read the Word of God, yes, we may struggle with some names, but we ought to study those names and find out who they are and why they're there. There are three key women in the genealogy of the Lord Jesus that just preach a loud message to me. There are women who ought not to be there by the standard of the law They're individuals who should be outcast, who should not be permitted. They're part of those peoples that the Moabites and the Ammonites who who were to have no portion or no right, but yet God's grace made a way. And God took the the unlikely and God took those that everyone else wrote off and God put them right there in the genealogy of the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, what is that? That's the grace and mercy of God. There is no situation so damaged that God in mercy can't get glory out of it There is no problem so big, no devastation so large, that God can't work it out for his good or for our good and his glory. That's because he's God. Who would have ever thought what David did with Bathsheba would produce Solomon? Now it was David's sin was not the cause. But God's mercy stepped in. And how many times do we see God's mercy stepping in in the unlikely In the undesirable , in what we would say is irreparable. How many times have we said have we said, it's done, it's over, there's no hope, there's no future? only for God to take what's been nearly destroyed and work the miracle. Ah, how great our God is, and this Bible declares it. He's able to do these things, church. And you won't see that if you don't read your Bible in its entirety. Oh, what hope God's word gives us. Let me give you one more. Romans chapter number ten. Romans chapter number 10. And look with me, if you will, at verse number 17. You know this verse, I believe. Romans chapter 10, verse number 17. We heard a bit about this this morning. So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Why should I read my Bible in its entirety? Because it strengthens my faith. It strengthens my faith. Let me say this. A whole Bible makes for a whole faith. A whole Bible makes for a whole faith. There are a lot of lopsided Christians because they don't read the whole Bible. I hear it. People say, preacher, I I get I get all I need from the Psalms. You're lopsided. You need more than the Psalms. Well, I get all I need from the words of Jesus. And I'm not diminishing the words of my blessed Lord. Don't misread or misunderstand what I'm about to say. But you need more than the words of Jesus. A whole Bible makes a whole faith. A deficient faith is usually due to a lopsided study of the scriptures You can go to seed on anything. Now prophecy is fascinating, but you can't live on prophecy alone. You need more. The gospel is the greatest news man knows. But you can't live on the gospel alone. You and I've got to have the whole Bible. The whole Bible. A friend of mine got on this diet and all he would eat were carrots. And he would he would cook them and eat them cooked. He would eat them raw. He would juice them. And after a few months he came to church and he was his orange. And somebody called him by name and said, Hey, uh your your skin looks something's wrong with your skin, you're turning orange. And he said, You know, I thought I thought something wasn't right. And he went to the doctor and the doctor said, What what are you eating? And he told him, he said, Man He said, you need more than carrots to stay alive. But how many of us have our little pets? We have a pet book, we have a pet part of the Bible, we have a pet truth, we have a pet thing, and we like to read it and all of that. But you know what it's doing? It's causing your faith to be deficient. Lopsided truth. I need the whole Bible to have a whole faith. We live in a day where putting your superstition is the strongest scripture. You ever hear people say, well, cleanliness is next to godliness? Well, look, you're to be clean. I'm for clean. How many are for clean? But I'm going to tell you something. Cleanliness is not next to godliness according to the scriptures. That's not a Bible statement. Search it. It's not a Bible statement. I know somebody's going to come up after church and say, but preacher, it's a Bible principle. Well, it may be, but it's not the Bible statement that it's made to be. There's a lot of shallow superficial faith because it's not built on Scripture. We build it on our feelings. We build it on our emotions. We build it on something we've experienced. We see things like, well, you know, I saw this or I saw that, and listen, I'll tell you what, you eat a pepperoni pizza with extra pepperoni and onions on it tonight before you go to bed, and you'll see some things I guarantee you through the night you'll have visions and dreams and hear utterance say that are hard to be understood. But it won't be God. You hear me, please? Church family, I I'm serious about this thing. We need a whole faith. The devil don't play fair. We're living in a day where where people in God's God's house are being deceived by the devil and they're blown away by every wind of doctrine. They're tossed to and fro like little children back and forth because they don't have a a grasp on the whole Bible. I'm not saying you'll understand all of the Bible, but you need to read all the Bible. I'm not saying that you'll get it the first time through. You need to read it again and again and again. But I'll tell you what, if you'll anchor your faith in thus saith the Lord. You'll have a much stronger faith than just latching it here and there and everywhere. It'll strengthen our faith. I need a whole Bible to have a whole faith Now let me say five things real quick that are practical. I hope it will help. I'm challenging you tonight. Say, what are you doing, preacher? I'm challenging you to read your Bible through. I'm challenging you to begin starting January 1 to read your Bible from cover to cover. You say, preacher, I did that. Do it again. Do it again. God lets me uh have strength and my vision and all of that till Wednesday. I'll finish. I'll finish probably for about the 30th time now of reading God's word through. I aim to, by God's help. I believe it's important. And listen, I want to challenge you tonight to read God's word all the way through. Number one, do it separate from your devotions. I'm not saying replace your time with the Lord with reading your Bible all the way through. You say, why is that? Because if you're not careful, your devotions will turn into I've got to get my three chapters done. And you won't have a tender heart that says, now God, I need to hear from you, and I'm going to read till you speak. And how many of you know when God speaks to you, you just need to stop and stay right there? It may be a word, it may be a phrase, it may be A statement, it may be a principle, but you've got to just stay right there and get what it is God's trying to say. Or God is saying, communicating to us. So do it separate from your devotions. Let me say quickly, make it a part of your daily routine. Make it a part of your daily routine. Do you know the average reader can read three chapters, and that's about what it takes to read the whole Bible in the course of a year. It's about three chapters a day. The average reader can do that in 15 minutes. If you are a slow reader, you can do it in 30. You say, preacher, I just don't have that kind of time, then you're too busy. But I'm going to venture, you spend more than thirty minutes on social media. In the course of a day. By the way, if you want something to convict you, you've got an app on your phone that'll tell you how much time you spend doing what. I get a report every Sunday morning. I want a smack in the face of reality. And it tells me how much time I spent doing this, uh, texting or talking or on a social media app or whatever And and it gives me, and I've took it as a personal challenge to make it smaller and smaller and smaller. We've got time. By the way, how many of them know you've got time for the things you deem important? When you get hungry, you got time to eat. You got time to eat. Uh give you some Andy Griffith wisdom. Well that Briscoe Darling that said if you got time to breathe, you got time to make music. Because that was important to him, right? That's not Bible, by the way, okay? But what I'm trying to say is that that you you and I make time for what's important. In the grand scheme of things, is thirty minutes a big part of your day? To read the Word of God. Make it a part of your daily routine. Carve out, be it in the morning, the lunchtime, do it in the evening, maybe before you go to bed or wherever you can fix it in or put it as a part of your daily routine. Make it a part of your daily routine. Let me say this purpose in your heart to read your Bible through Don't sit here tonight and say, well, I'll get to it maybe. You know what will happen? You won't do it. Well, I'm thinking about it, preacher. Do more and think about it. Purpose in your heart. Daniel did something down in Babylon that changed the course of his life. He purposed in his heart not to defile himself with the king's meat. And because of that purpose, for near 90 years, that man stayed true to God because he purposed something in his heart. I'm asking you before you leave this building to purpose in your heart to read your Bible through. Then let me say this. Don't get discouraged. If you fall behind, catch up. If you get i i if you fall off the the the the trail, so to speak, stay at it. When you get to those hard books of the Bible and you start reading and and it's genealogy after genealogy, name after name, just stay at it, you'll get through it. You will You'll be glad you did. I I believe this, if you can make it past March reading your Bible in a systematic way, you'll finish the year. But you've got to get past March. Finish it. Don't get discouraged. Finish it. It's easy to quit. It's easy. I know it's easy to get discouraged and say, well, what's the use? I'm ten chapters behind. I'm a whole book behind. I'm two books behind. Well, ask the Lord to help you. Just stay at it and finish. the task. Don't get discouraged. And then I'll say this. Use helps. Use helps. We provide on the back table a calendar. A 52-week Bible reading plan. And if you'll take one of these, it'll help you beginning, and it gives you what you need to read every single day. Now uh sometimes we say, well I'll I'll have my own plan. You know what that's code for? I'm not serious and I'm not gonna do it. Get a plan. On that back table is the plan, and it's got started in January 1st, which will be Wednesday. Read Genesis 1 to 3. On Thursday, read Genesis 4-7. And follow it all the way through. Use the helps. Listen, we've got all sorts of helps. We've got uh Bible apps. Um I use two. I've got the blue letter Bible. and uh an another Bible app and listen, these things are so neat, they'll read to you. If if you get a little bit behind and And boy, I've caught myself a few times this year, a little bit behind with everything going on. And so what I do when I'm getting ready in the morning, I'll play my Bible and I'll listen to my Bible out. When I'm in the office and I'm working through mail or something like that, I listen to my Bible app. Or when I'm walking or whatever it may be, I try to incorporate the using of these apps. as it reads the word of God. Now it it I don't get out of it what I do if I read it myself, but it's still good. Because you're getting God's word. Use helps. And friend, let's by the help of God tonight say I'm going to read my Bible through. You may be sitting here and say, preacher, I've never done that. 2025 is going to be the year to do it. It's going to be the year to it. You may be sitting here and say, preacher, I've tried and tried and tried and failed. Well, can I say this? Try and try and try and don't fail. Get it done this year. Just say, I'm gonna do that. Lord helping me, I'm gonna do that. Something as important as the Bible ought to be read David Gibbs the third told the story of a trial that was held And the judge was trying to see how serious this Christian was who violated a law in his workplace Because of his Bible convictions. And as he began to examine that man, David said he took his faith all apart and showed how unserious he really was. He said to him, Sir, do you believe the Bible that you profess to follow is God's word? And the man said, Yes, I do. He said, Do you believe that God gave it to you as an instruction manual for life? He said, Yes, I do. He said, Sir, can I ask you, have you ever read it all the way through? The man said, no, I have not. He said, well, sir, how long have you been a Christian? He said, I've been a Christian. I believe it was 27 years. He said, you mean to tell me that in 27 years you've never taken the time to read the Bible in its entirety? He said, no. He said, well, let me ask you another question. He said, this Bible that you say guides your life and instructs you uh to the place that you're willing to break the laws of your company and and and violate those laws because of your convictions about the Bible Is it important enough to you to you to read every single day? He said, I'm not asking if you read it all the way through. He said, I'm asking you, do you read it every day? And the man had to drop his head and say, Well, sir, not always He said, so you're telling me that that you are a man with Bible convictions and that you violated that law because of your convictions? And yet you've never read the book all the way through, and that you have you often do not read it every day. He said, Sir, I'm not convinced that you have the convictions you say you have. Now that was a court of law. It's highly unlikely any of us will sit in a court of law and have to answer those questions. But I believe there's coming a greater day where we will sit, or stand rather. At the judgment seat of Christ. And there it will not be for violating a company law or Getting in trouble over the laws of men. It will be there. We'll give an account of ourselves to the Lord. And you've got the book from which the judgment proceeds. Would it not be a shame to have to stand before God and say, God, I never read that Bible all the way through? I don't know what it says in the book of Habakkuk. I don't know what it says in the book of Numbers. Never never never looked at that part of the Bible. Never read that part. Never read about Amos and all the teachings that are never read that book Oh friend, let's say tonight, God help me, to read my Bible all the way through this year. That's purpose in our heart. I know this, it'll do us good. It'll do us as good as anything else we could do in the coming year by reading the Word of God. I'm going to pray and close this meeting. And I want you to just use right where you're sitting as a place of doing business with God tonight. We'll not have a closing invitation in that way, in a formal way, but in this way. With our heads bowed and our eyes closed.