Timothy chapter number three. And let me start reading in verse number thirteen. Second Timothy chapter three. And we'll begin reading in verse number thirteen. And as you're turning to 2 Timothy chapter 3, let me remind you what the Bible is. The Bible is God 's word. The Bible is the communication of God to man. If I can put it in this terminology, the Bible is God's love letter to you. Some of you are old enough to remember sending love letters, all right? You didn't send text or uh you know, snaps, snapchats or tweets or uh Marco Polo 's or anything like that, uh you communicated through letters. How many of you remember let me say this, how many of you ever got a love letter All right. How many of you wish you'd gotten a love letter? Alright. But you got a love letter. Now, here's what I know about love letters. I know that you do not take them and put them aside and say, I'm just going to read part of it. Buddy, when you got a chance, you read every single bit. I and and and here's what I also know about love letters: when you read it, you stopped at every word. You looked at how that word was spelled. You looked at it how it was written. I mean, you were trying to get everything you could out of that love letter. Amen? It was something important. It was something special. Now I feel sorry for this crowd that had never had that experience, you know. I still have several letters that my wife and I shared back and forth before we were husband and wife. And uh uh we um how can I say this? She was in the academically gifted portion of our school. And I was in the other portion. You'll just say that. And so uh where she went in class and where I went in class were two different places. But we did have one class in the middle of the day where I went by that particular thing, uh, annex or part of the high school, and when I went by there I was sure hoping there was a young lady standing there waiting We didn't have time to talk because we both had to be in opposite ends of the building, but we would swap letters And buddy, it it was it was almost uh we did it so quick and we both were so shy. We did it almost like a drug deal, you know, just kind of handoff and so nobody could see and we both kept moving But I'll tell you those letters were very special. I don't remember what class I had after uh that particular thing, but I do know this the first few minutes of it, I didn't learn anything. I had my mind on things a whole lot more important than sitting there in that class. What I'm trying to say is that God in heaven has written you a love letter. The very God of the universe who sent his Son to die for your sin and to shed his blood to wash and make you clean has communicated a message to you in the Word of God. And beloved, we need to read that letter from end to end. 2 Timothy 3 verse 13 says, But evil men And seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of. Knowing of whom thou hast learned them. And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. I want you to look at verse 16. All Scripture. I want to enlarge on that a minute. All Scripture. You say, preacher, what does all mean? Well, all means all. And uh someone said that's all that all means. It's all scripture. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. That the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. Look again at verse sixteen, all scripture Father, would you help us just now and speak to us from your good word? I thank you for this church family. I thank you for these dear people gathered in here tonight. I pray, Lord, that you would just meet with us right where we are, speak to us, Lord, as we have need, and be glorified in this place. I thank you, Lord, for the Bible. May we never take it for granted. Lord, I thank you for the precious word of God. Lord, we'd still be dead and lost in our trespasses and sin were it not for the communication of truth. Through the inspired Word of God. I thank you, Lord, that we are born again by the incorruptible seed of the Word of God which liveth and abideth forever. I thank you this evening, Lord, that we have the privilege to open it now together. May the Spirit of God have his way and speak to us individually, collectively, and Lord, for all that you do. We'll be careful to give you the glory, for we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said Look again at verse 16, please. All scripture When the Apostle Paul, under the pen of inspiration, would write these words, he would write with the understanding that this All scripture included the entire canon of the Word of God. Although all Scripture had yet to be pinned and all scripture had yet to be recognized as a complete canon. It was still a statement, if nothing else, of a proclamation. It was the statement of prophecy that there would be a completion of the Word of God and all Scripture would be inspired. All scripture, all sixty-six books, all thirty-nine of the old, all twenty-seven of the new, all scriptures given by inspiration. The word inspiration means God breathed it. It's the very breath of God. What we have is not the creation of man, it is the supernatural work of the Lord. The Bible that you hold in your hand is not something that has come to us through the channels of antiquity, through ancient men. It comes to us from the very mouth of God. This Bible is so unique in that aspect. There is no other book like the Bible. When you stop and think about what we have in the Word of God, we have a priceless treasure in the Scriptures. This book has been given to us from the Lord. He has has not only inspired it, breathed it, he has preserved it and kept it. He has provided it for us so that we can sit here in 2026 and say this without reservation, I have the word of God. It is the word of God tonight, and all scripture is given by inspiration. Someone said that it takes the whole Bible to make a whole Christian. Takes the whole Bible to make a whole Christian. Isolate any part, concentrate on any one portion, and you quickly become lopsided. Do you realize that God knew what he was doing when he gave us the whole Bible? You think about this, you know there are things I I've got a friend that uh he read somewhere that carrot juice is good for you. And so that dear brother began to drink carrot juice, and I mean he had it three times a day. He got to where he was fasting and he would skip meals and then he would drink uh carrot juice. And one day when he came to church, he had an unusual hue about his body. And believe it or not, that carrot juice changed the color of his skin. And he looked like a carrot after a little while. Honest, he began to have that orange glow, and he kept it for quite some time, and he went to the doctor. And he said, Doc has something wrong? Is my liver given out? Or what's happening to my body? And the doctor began to ask questions and he ran tests and finally he said, What are you eating? And he said, Well actually I'm consuming quite a bit of carrot juice, and the doctor said, Man, you did this to yourself. Carrot juice is good for you in portion Uh i he said if you try to live on carrot juice, man, you're gonna turn into a carrot, and he just about did. I'm saying that the word of God is a book of entirety, it is a whole book It's not meant to be portioned out or set aside little piece, little here, little that, because if you do, you will miss out on a great deal of good things that God has for you. I want you to notice five reasons that we should read the Bible, five benefits of reading the entire Bible. Number one, I want you to notice that it will give you a proper view of the whole truth. It'll give you a proper view of the whole truth. The Bible is an intertwined book. Remember what Paul said? All scripture. He didn't say just the New Testament is inspired. He didn't say just the writings of Paul are inspired. He did not say the first five books are inspired. He said all scripture is given by inspiration. All of it is inspired. All of it comes from the hand of God and the breath of God. And so if I'm going to get a proper view of the whole, I must read it in its entirety. Do you realize if you only read the Old Testament, you're going to miss something? And if you only read the New Testament, you're going to miss something? And if you only read the songs, you're going to miss something. Why? Because God's woven it all together. He's intertwined it so that each is a part of the other. It's sort of like a building that is all built on a uh on a cornerstone or all built on a capstone And that whole building seemingly rests upon that one center point. It rests upon that that one thing. And when you begin to take pieces out, the structure grows weak. And it will collapse. Why? Because each piece needs the other. Your Bible's incomplete without Genesis. Your Bible's incomplete without Exodus or Jonah or Micah or Nahum or Habakkuk. You take any one of those parts out and you no longer have a whole Bible. That's why the devil likes to put a question mark on every little bit of the Bible that he can. He knows that if he can destroy confidence in one portion. That he can destroy confidence in the whole thing. My first church that I pastored came out of a church that once was a fundamental church. And that church called a pastor who came in as one of those men in Jude, those uh evil men who crept in unawares. Because after they made him their pastor, he began to teach on why you cannot trust the five books of the Old Testament of the Old Testament. He spent a whole year teaching that church that Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy are un were unreliable, untrustworthy, and that you can't believe them. They're not true. And there was a group of people in there said, Hey, that's not right. The Bible is either a Bible of truth, or if it's got a little bit of error, then the whole thing is questionable But I'm glad to report to you tonight that the Bible in its entirety is true. Absolutely, emphatically, 100% truth. No error. And beloved, listen, if you're going to get a view of the whole, you've got to read the whole of Scripture. People say, Well, preacher, I read my Bible. Yeah, but do you read the whole thing? Well, I read from here and I read from there. You'd be surprised if you kept track of that thing, how little of the whole you read. You ever had a doctor say to you, I want you to write down everything you eat? Ever had that happen? Because I'll tell you what we do. We think we eat pretty healthy. Some years ago a doctor said, I want you to write down everything you eat. So I said, Okay, I got in the morning, got me a little notepad, and I wrote down what I had. I wrote down what I had for breakfast uh and for lunch and supper and so on and at the end of the month I took that in there and and uh I had told him, you know, I eat pretty good, I eat pretty healthy. And then he took my little notepad and he went, Mm-mm, that's not good. And that's not good. He said, back, do you know you you you had that particular thing four times that week? You had that one thing three times in one day He said, that's not good. See, I had convinced myself that I was eating pretty good, that I was doing pretty well, but when I started writing it down, when I started keeping track I'm saying that we often deceive ourselves by saying, Well, preacher, I read all of the Bible at some point, but if all we do is pick and choose and read here and there, there's a great deal of truth that I'm sure we are going to miss. So, number one, it gives you a proper view of the whole. Number two, it fortifies your faith in inspiration. Look at the text again, please. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. When I read the whole Bible, I begin to see a common thread woven Through all sixty-six books. Though there were forty human penmen that were used by the Lord, separated by centuries, I began to understand that what Moses wrote for Genesis and what John wrote in Revelation complement one another and mix right together real good. meaning that somehow or another God brought this thing together. When you read the whole Bible, it fortifies your faith and inspiration. Here's what you come to the conclusion of. You come to the conclusion that only God can author a book like that. Look, when you read a novel, nobody reads a novel just a chapter here and there. I mean if you're a serious reader. I i if if you're a uh a someone that wants to know the contents of a book, you do more than and pick it up and read the back review or the overview You want to read the whole. And in reading the whole, you begin to see that that there is one author who's doing something, communicating something, and that's the way it is with the Word of God. It fortifies our faith and inspiration. I'm convinced more than ever, the more I read of God's Word that it is exactly what it says it is, it is God's Word. Only God's Word can expose man's sin, only God's word could take the covers off of the reality of who man is and make us naked and open before Him with whom we have to do. Only God's word could communicate a message over such a broad span of time and through so many different personalities and not say anything against the other, but join together in unity. That's proof of inspiration. What a miracle book this is Did you ever play that game where you pass it on? You you i i if I were to do that here tonight, I'd go down here and I'd whisper something to Charlie. And Charlie would tell Beth, and Beth would tell Miss Johanna, Miss Johanna tell uh Brother Brad, Brother Brad tell Sister Sus, and so on And I promise you this, what I told Brother Charlie, would not be what Tristan tells me once it gets through here It would be radically altered. It sort of reminds me of that episode of uh of Andy Griffith where uh you know Barney was playing with his gun and it went off. And by the time it got back to him, uh it's Barney had shot himself. And somebody called to report it, and Barney's the one that took the call. And they said, Barney shot himself and he's dead, and he's standing there and saying, I shot myself and I'm dead You know, like it was a shock to him. Listen, everything man touches he corrupts. Everything man touches, he taints. It takes the omnipotent hand of the Lord to take the message of And communicate it through the hands of men and preserve it through the centuries for us so that we can have a Bible and know for sure that it says just what God wanted it to say. And you know what? When you read your Bible in its entirety, you begin to see all scriptures given by inspiration. Number three, the third benefit of reading the whole Bible is it helps you understand the message. The Bible is not a book that's disconnected with several messages. The Bible does not have multiple messages for us. The Bible does not communicate. By the way, listen, the Old Testament does not communicate one thing that is totally against what the New Testament communicates. There's no contradiction in the scriptures. The scriptures complement one another. They're joined together. And listen, as you read the whole, you realize that the redemption of man by the sacrifice of Jesus Christ is the prevailing message from Genesis Revelation. Now in the Old Testament, it's veiled in pictures and types and portraits. In the New Testament, it's plainly spoken. But the two join hand in hand. One of the things that I enjoy doing is looking at the Old Testament pictures of Jesus The temple's full of pictures. The tabernacle's full of pictures. The sacrifices are full of pictures. The furniture in both the tabernacle and the temple All draw a picture of Jesus, the truth of the matter is, have a page you look on, you'll find Jesus if you're looking for him Now that's the message of the Word of God. I could further simplify the message of the Bible and just simply state the name Jesus because he's the message of the scriptures. When you read the Bible in its entirety, you begin to see that it has one message for mankind. Quickly, number four, the fourth benefit of reading the whole Bible is that it brings balance to your Christianity. Man is a creature of extremes. By the way, there's ditches on both sides of the road. And the Bible will keep you out of them. The tendency of man is to be on one end or the other. Man has the tendency to gravitate to one side or the other. The wisdom of Proverbs, the words of Paul, the worship of David in the Psalms, the laws of God in the first five books, and the prophet's message all balance out the Christian. They keep you out of the ditches. I know men that say I only adhere to the teachings of Paul. And they become hyper-dispensationalists. And they become lopsided in their faith. There are those that would say, I adhere to the laws of the Old Testament, and they become legalists in their practice. a and they become confined in trying to appease God through their own efforts, not realizing that the law is our schoolmaster That's to strip us of all righteousness and bring us to the feet of Jesus Christ, to trust Him completely and entirely for our soul's salvation. We find that the Bible as a whole will bring balance to your faith. The Bible as a whole will make us the kind of Christian that God would have us be. I often need the stern, the stern thunderings of Sinai to shock my soul into the reality that transgression against the Lord is against the Lord. And then I often need the tender mercies of Calvary, whereby I see that there is a sacrifice for my sin, and blood was shed to put it away, and I can come and find forgiveness. And it is the whole Bible that gives me the message that I need at the moment that it's needed. And if I neglect any of the scripture, I'm missing out on something God wants to do. So the Bible as a whole brings balance to my Christianity. Let me give you one last thing the benefits of reading the Bible in its entirety. Number one, it gives you a proper view of the whole. Number two, it fortifies your faith and inspiration. Number three, it helps in understanding the message. Number four, it brings balance to your Christianity. But number five, it is spiritually. profitable. The text says all scripture, notice it again, is given inspiration of God. Now let me read it like it is being stated here. And all scripture is profitable for doctrine. All scripture is profitable for reproof. All scripture is profitable for correction. All scripture is profitable for instruction and righteousness. All scripture. All scripture has is profitable. It's spiritually profitable You say, well, preacher, what can I get out of some of the books I can't understand? Well, you might be surprised what God might give you. I used to cringe when I had to read the genealogies. I just gotta be honest. I don't know why they couldn't name them Adam, Paul, John, Jim, James. They had to name them, you know, Ishba Biabanab or something like that. And men, they're just names you can't hardly make out. But when you read the genealogies and you begin to realize these were real people who lived in the real world And these were men and women who experienced the reality of God doing something in their life. And then you start putting pieces of the puzzle together and realize that some of these real people Who were characters that you and I might dismiss. God had a design and a plan and a purpose for. That God would take somebody like Rahab and put her in the lineage of the Lord Jesus. That God would take somebody like Tamar and put her in the lineage of the Lord Jesus. That God would take some of these individuals. That God would take a David and a Bathsheba and he would bring to us a Solomon. Now look, only God could arrange something like that. And when you begin to understand those things, man, how it thrills your heart and it becomes spiritually profitable. You see that the grace of God was not limited to the age of grace. God's grace reaches throughout all of time, from Adam and Eve to the very last person who walks this earth. Oh, the grace of God is lavishly poured out in that Old Testament. You see God doing things for people. Ruth, for example, can I remind you who Ruth was? She was a Moabite. Do you remember what God said about the Moabites? The Moabites and the Ammonites were the offspring of Lot and his daughters, the ancestral relationship. That was a a and God said they're never allowed. He cursed them. He put them out. He put a barrier up and said they can't come in. That is until That is until a redeemer said, I'll buy her. That is until the grace of God said, Let me draw you a picture of what it means to be saved. I'm going to get a woman who has no hope and no chance, who's cursed and condemned, and I'm going to bring her into the family of God, and I'm going to put her in the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. By the way, that's what grace did when God saved you, friend. You were cursed and condemned by the law of God. You were lost and held bound and deservingly so. But God in his grace said, Let me show you what mercy and grace can do. And he reached into your Moabitish heart and saved you and brought you into the family of God. Listen, friend, there is something to learn in the genealogies. All scripture is profitable for doctrine. Look, doctrine is not confined simply to the New Testament. In fact, the Old Testament is the seatbed of the New, and many, if not most, of our New Testament doctrines have roots in the Old. In fact, I'll be even more specific and say that a majority of the major doctrines of Scripture have rooting in the book of Genesis. That's just the working of the Lord. The Lord's put it together like that. All scripture is profitable for doctrine. Secondly, all scripture's profitable for reproof. Somebody said doctrine is what's right, reproof is what's wrong. All of the Bible can properly rebuke us in some way or another. Everybody here needs to be hauled up short every once in a while. Every one of us need the Lord to say, that's not right. And He'll do it through the Word of God. I listened to Billy Kelly as I was going to sleep last night. And he was preaching down in Tennessee somewhere. And and he was preaching on a pastor of scripture. And I thought, where is he going with that? And and after about twenty minutes of listening to him, I I ruined my night of sleep Because he made a statement from an Old Testament scripture that stuck in me like a javelin from heaven And he was he was talking about something else, but God used it in another way. And I thought, Lord, I never dreamed that you'd rebuke me that way with that scripture. I'm just saying that all scripture is profitable for reproof. You may be needing something out of the book of Numbers that might prick your heart and say, hey. That needs to be changed. That's not right. Need to get that attitude out of your heart. Need to correct that. Change that. It's reproof. And all scripture is profitable for reproof. This crowd that says there's nothing to be found in the Old Testament need to give their head a shake. They need to realize that there's much in the Word of God. And Paul said it under inspiration: all scriptures profitable, not only for doctrine, but all scriptures profitable for reproof. All scripture is profitable for correction. If doctrine is what's right and reproof is what's wrong, correction is how to get right, how to make things right. And I'm glad I've got a Bible that shows me how to make things right. The Bible will show you how to set things in order. The problem with the society we live in today is that we've stopped following the scriptures. We're following the thoughts of men. We're humanists. We follow the grand thinking of those who are supposedly intelligent. But any intelligence that exalts itself against the truth of God is ignorance veiled as intelligence. Because the Bible is the living Word of God. I believe that the Bible is sufficient to tell me how to raise my family I believe the Bible is sufficient to tell me how to live my life. I believe the Bible is sufficient to tell me how to prepare for eternity. The Bible is sufficient to tell me how to live as a Christian in this old sin-cursed world. The Bible is enough. Church, we need a revival of reverence for the Word of God. We need to get back to a people who put more stock in what God says in his word than what man says about his word. I've got a a library full of commentaries. And you know something I found the older I get That the those things that you really are trying to figure out, when you open a commentary, they've skipped over them. They're silent. They don't know either. And oftentimes some of the th I I was reading one the other day on a verse in Proverbs. Now here's what I've started doing. I try to pray and say, God, you show me and study and compare scripture to scripture, and I come to the conclusion I that that I believe God's leading me to, and then I go and I read the commentary. I don't want the thoughts of men to taint my thinking. I want the truth of God to be the foundation on which I build. And as I began to do that, I was reading something the other day, and I read that, and I thought, this writer, this particular writer, had a hobby horse Because all through the book of Proverbs, every other verse, he would get back to one subject. It didn't matter what it was, he'd get back on that subject. It didn't matter what that proverb addressed, he would get back to that subject. Now, what he was trying to do was emphasize what he felt, how he thought, and what he wanted to say. He was communicating his word, his thoughts. But I'm trying to say tonight is that what we need is the Word of God to show us what's right and to straighten us out and help us to make it right. And listen, it is a sufficient book Now I'm thankful for all the study helps and what have you, but those are inadequate and insufficient, and let me remind you, they are the words of men. They do not compare to the word of God. Your notes, some of you got no a Bible that has notes in them. Can I remind you those notes are not inspired? No matter who put them there. C. I. Schofield or anybody else, they are not inspired. Some of the things that are in there, I I I I know why This thing of the gap theory, that gap between Genesis 1 1 and 1 2. You say, Preacher, what was all of that about? I'll tell you what it was about. It was about spiritual men bowing to what appeared to be the intellectual elite of that day. Suddenly we began to think there must be thousands of years, thousands and hundreds and hundreds of thousands, and we can't have a contradiction in the word. So we've got to put it somewhere. Here's what we'll do. There must be a gap between Genesis one one and Genesis one two. Well hold on just a minute. The Bible tells us simply that as God created things, he created them in a very definite pattern and order. And to accommodate what is currently popular so that it will fit somehow in the Bible is to bow your knee to the culture and the current trend rather than to the authority of the Word of God. Please listen to me tonight. There's a whole lot of people doing that. There's a whole lot of folks in church today that believe somehow or another the Bible's got to catch up. Let me tell you something. Man better catch up with the Bible. The catching up needs to be on our end, not God's end. God doesn't need to learn something or be taught anything. He's the great God who's omniscient. He knows all things. And I need to catch up with him. And I love when science begins to say, well, you know, we thought it was like this, but now we've discovered it's like that. And like that lines up with what God has said all along. And you know something, beloved, please hear me tonight. The truth is, God's word is simply that. It is God's word. And it's profitable for correction. You got a problem you can't solve? Get in that Bible and find out what God says You've got a situation you can't sort out, you open your Bible and say, now Lord, you show me how to sort it out. You show me how to fix this thing. One of the things I loved about the ministry of Brother Lester Roloff is that he very simply went to the Bible with a modern problem and said, God, what's the solution? And God gave him a solution that worked time and time and time again. It was opposed by men, it was ridiculed by Christians It was laughed at by others, but it was something that God has honored and used all through the years. And you know I got to thinking about this. I there's untold numbers of men in the ministry who got rescued through that work of Brother Roloff down there in those homes. Untold numbers. I I know about twenty personally who were rescued off the streets and judge and send them to Roloff Homan a and sentenced them to go down there and stay with Brother Roloff. And and because of that they got saved. And then God called them to preach. And they've served the Lord now twenty, thirty, forty, fifty years, and they've been faithful to God. I'm telling you, dear friend, the Bible has the answer It's not simplistic. It's scriptural to go to the Word of God for answers. I'm afraid we've got too much confidence in man and not enough confidence in the Lord. If I can say anything tonight, I would say trust your Bible emphatically. Believe it without reservation, hesitation. Say it is the word of God. What I don't understand, help me to understand. Lord, show me what you want me to do, and I promise you he'll do it through the pages of his word. All scripture is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, instruction in righteousness. If doctrine is what's right and reproof is what's wrong, and correction is how to make it right. Instruction in righteousness is how to stay right. And all scripture's profitable for that You'll find something out in your Christian life. When you get away from the Bible, you get away from the Lord. When you get away from the Bible, you get away from the Lord. Close that Bible, your heart's starting to get cold. Neglect his word, and you'll start drifting. There may be some dear saint listening to me right now. You've not opened this Bible in a while. You've been too busy. Well, I'll tell you, the devil will give you something to do to keep you out of the Bible. 24-7. 24-7. You know what I found? I found I've got to fight to stay in the book. I mean, it's got to be the priority of my life. It's got to be those things. There are days, there are days, I've had them even this week. There are days you open the Bible and you get ready to get in it, and here's something. And then you get rid of that something or dealt with deal with that something and here's something else. And then something else. And then something else. And the next thing you know, it's going to be bent time and you're thinking, man, here it is, and I've been robbed of my time of the Word of God. You say, what do you do? You say bedtime, you're gonna have to hold on. I need something from the Bible. I need something from God. I need to hear the voice of the Lord. Because, friends, you cannot live without the Word of God. You'd do better to live without food, you'd do better to live without water, you'd do better to live w Without oxygen than you can to live without the Word of God You've got to have this Bible. And the minute you close that Bible and start neglecting it is the moment you start walking away from God. Oh dear friend, the only way to stay close to the Lord is to stay immersed in the Word. The only way to stay close to God is to read it, pray over it, love it, study it, meditate on it. Let God speak to you from it. You need the Bible more than your necessary food. It's spiritually profitable. All scripture. All scriptures given to inspiration. I believe the most convincing argument as to why we should read the entire Bible is because all of it came from God. All of it's been breathed by God. And all of it needs to be read by God's people. I end where I started, you take that love letter. And you know You read about two or three sentences and say, ah, I know what it says, and you close it up and you go on. You're gonna miss something. You take a book of instructions and you read the first one and the last one and forget the other two, something's going to be missing. You're gonna y you know, it's sort of like some of us are uh sort of have an aversion to reading the instructions when it comes to putting things together. We're more mechanically inclined than that. We don't need instructions, amen. And so we go about building something, I was building something here here a little bit ago and and and I said, look, I can see the picture, I see the parts, I can put that together. I've done more complicated things than that. And I get the silly thing all together and there's one piece still out And I look at that and I says, where does that thing go? It's not in the picture. And then my um encouraging wife says Well, if you had read the instructions. Step number five said you screw that here. And you know what I had to do? I had to tear the whole silly thing down. And go all the way back to the beginning. Put that in, because you couldn't get it in any other way, and then put it all back together. See, I missed something. Friend, you take your Bible and you just sort of pick at it. You're gonna miss something. You're gonna miss something. Far more important than some little silly little piece of a piece of furniture you're putting together. You're going to miss something in your life. You're going to miss something in your soul. You're going to miss something God has for you. God may have something for you tucked way back yonder in the book of Nahum or maybe the that little book of Micah it tucked way back there and it's just for you. I mean it's what you need that day And you know what I found reading the Bible through? That God can take his word and arrange it in such a way that whether today I'm reading Genesis. uh uh you know, 35 to 40, or or I'm reading John one to five, that that God has something in that little segment that I really needed, and God knew it in eternity past, He put it all together, and it's right there on that day. Isn't that amazing? That's the Lord. So I give you this challenge. Read your Bible through. Read your Bible through. December the 28th, I got a message from dear old brother Bob Bowser. Preacher, I finished my Bible again. You'd be hard pressed to find a man busier than Bob. They run a farm, have a tow company, work on machinery, have their own business uh fixing road tractors and such. You'd also find be hard pressed to find a man that finds it harder to read. Bob said I was always good with my hands, not my head. He was seventy four the first time he read his Bible through He said, I sat in a service and I felt ashamed that a man as old as me, saved as long as I had been, had never read my Bible through. And he said, I took that challenge and said, I'm going to do it by the grace of God. And you know what? He started And when he finished, it was like a I'm telling you, you've never seen a man more excited. He was so thrilled that God had helped him and he had read that Bible through. And so the next year he did it again. And the next year he did it again. And the next year he did it again. That's been fifteen years now. And he read it again this year, this past year. I said to him, I wrote back and said, brother, what are you going to do this year? He said, read it again. I want to read it again. He said, I'm amazed at how much is in that Bible I didn't know was in there. He said, I'm sure I've read that part before. It has 15 times now. But he said, I see something fresh every time I read it. I'm saying to you, beloved, tonight, there is no excuse. To not go through the Word of God from Genesis to Revelation. May the Lord help us. Maybe the Lord challenge us. I'm not shaming or scoring. I'm just saying God stir us up. Help us to see how significant a thing it is. To have the Word of God in our hands, in our own language, and to have the privilege to be able to read it from cover to cover And may God stir us this, you say, preacher, I did. I I I read my Bible. I stood up there, got my certificate. Well, let me say this, read it again And if God lets you live the year through and you start another, read it again. And if God lets you live another year, read it again. And until Jesus comes, just read it again and again and again and again. Why? Because it is profitable. It's good for us. May God help us. Father, we bow in Jesus' name.