Please and go to Genesis chapter number twenty-six. Genesis chapter number twenty-six and when you found your place would you stand with me? And we'll read these verses together. I'm going to start reading in verse number seventeen. Of Genesis chapter number 26. And I want you to keep in mind that in the Old Testament, the Bible draws pictures. And teaches principles in a tangible, visible way that helps us understand spiritual truth. And I believe what we have in this passage is just such a place. Genesis 26, verse 17. And Isaac departed thence and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar and dwelt there. And Isaac digg again the wells of water, which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father. For the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham. And he called the name he called their names after the names by which his father had called them. And Isaac's servant digged in the valley and found there a well of springing water. And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac's herdmen, saying, The water is ours. And he called the name of the well Esek, because they strove with him. And they digged another well and strove for that also. And he called the name of it Sitna. And he removed from thence and digged another well. And for that they strove not. And he called the name of it Rehoboth, and he said, For now the Lord hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land. And he went up from thence to Beersheba. And the Lord appeared unto him the same night and said, I am the God of Abraham, thy father. Fear not, for I am with thee, and will bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham's sake. And he built an altar there, and called upon the name of the Lord, and pitched his tent there And there Isaac's servants digged a well. Let's get down to verse 32, please. And verse 32 says, And it came to pass the same day that Isaac's servants came and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said unto him, We have found water. And he called it Sheba. Therefore, the name of the city is Beersheba unto this day. I want you to notice these wells that Isaac went back and dug again. The Lord helping me this morning, I want to preach on going back to the old wells. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would use your word to speak to our hearts as only you can. Every one of us here are utterly dependent upon you. We're looking to you, Father. And we pray your will be done. In Jesus' mighty name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. Now, when you read your Old Testament, you need to understand that it's teaching spiritual truth. And as you read through it and try to discern what it says, it's good to keep in mind that there are spiritual principles and teaching that are to be found here, and I believe that's true here with the digging of these wells. Isaac had to go back and dig his father's wells. You say, what happened? Well, there was a stopping up of the wells. The Bible says there in verse 18 that the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham. Now stop for a minute and think about how important water is for life. There are some things you can live without. Now this may shock some of you, but you can live without crispy cream donuts. It's doable. Now it's it's hard, but it's doable. And you can live, Brother Sharaka, this may sound like treason to you, but you can live without coffee. There's a lot of things that we can but I'll tell you what, you can't live without water. Your body needs water. And you're not going to live very long unless you have water. And in this part of the world water was scarce. It was not like it is especially around here today, we've got water everywhere. But there in that part of the world water was a rare and a s it was a scarce thing, and these wells were life-giving flows. You couldn't live without a whale. You had to have a whale. And the enemy knew if he could stop up your whale, he could cut off your life. And so the Philistines, when Abraham died, said, We'll run them out of here. We'll teach Isaac and all of his people. We'll show them just exactly what we can do. And they filled all their wells with dirt. And now their wells are they they have no water. They they they they have nothing to live on. And so Isaac comes back to the land. It's interesting that he comes back to the land. He comes back to Gerar. And do you know what that name means? It means the place of pilgrimage Now Isaac did what his father did, and he drifted away from the Lord. And the first part of this chapter tells you about that. But Isaac comes back and says, you know, I'm going to get serious and start doing what's right and be a pilgrim and a stranger on this earth. And so he comes back to that place of pilgrimage, he begins to redig these wells, those life-giving, life-sustaining wells. He knows that there was water there when Abraham was alive. He knows that there's a source of life and there's a source of refreshment there, and so he gets busy redigging those wells. I want to remind you something that the enemy is always trying to fill up God's wells. He's never ending in this. He's ceaseless. He's tireless. He's continually trying to fill up the wells that God has given you to draw life from. He wants to put something in your well. And I want you to remember this. There's a realization here. Isaac named the names after the names that his father Abraham had given them. He said, what's the big deal about that? Well, Isaac understood there's nothing new under the sun. And these old wells didn't need a new name. They just needed to be cleaned out. Now I'm talking about some very specific wells. I think there are four that are clearly pictured here. They're spiritual things, they're spiritual truths. I want you to notice number one, the well of salvation. And by the way, that's the first well. Look at verse 19. Isaac's servants digging in the valley and found there, notice this, it's the only time it said, a well of springing water. You say, what's a well of springing water? It was an artesian well. It was a well that couldn't be capped. It was what listen, when you dig a well and and that cavity fills up, you know what this one was doing? It filled up was running over. It was springing water. It wasn't just something that was just spare uh sparishly or sparsely running. It was a springing well. It was an artesian well And the Bible says in verse 20, the herdmen of Gerar did stribe with Isaac's herdmen, saying, The water is ours. And he called the name of the well Esek, because they strove with him. Now you say, preacher, why do you call that the well of salvation? Well, I call that the well of salvation because, number one, it's location. You notice it's the only one specified as being dug in the valley. They dug this well in the valley. And can I remind you that there was a valley that the Lord Jesus went through to dig a well for you and me? He went through the valley of the shadow of death. And he dug a well there for you and I so that we could be saved. He tasted death for every man, death passed upon all men for all that have sinned. But the Lord Jesus tasted not only death, but he conquered death and he dug the blessed well of salvation. We need to go back to that well. That's that's where you start. Notice this is where they started. You can't go forward with God unless you know God in a saving way. The Bible says, For by grace are you saved through faith and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. Now you'll notice there's a battle over that well. They strove, it says, for it. And notice what they did. They said, The water's ours. It belongs to us. And you know there's an unending run of individuals who want to get a corner on the well of salvation and say you can't get saved unless you get saved my way. There is an unflowing group of individuals that constantly want to say, well now I'll tell you, this is what I believe it takes to get saved. Can I say very simply and very boldly, the reality is it doesn't matter what you believe or what I believe or what you say or what I say, what does the Bible say? The Bible says that salvation is of the Lord. The Bible makes it clear that salvation can come only under one name, it's in one person, it's in one way, it's the Lord Jesus Christ. There's not ten ways to heaven, there's only one, and his name is Jesus Christ. Go back to that well. If you've never been saved, you need to go to that well and get a drink of everlasting life. You know, that woman at the well of Samaria, she went to draw water. By the way, she was drawing water at an unusual time of day. Everybody else had gone and it tells me something about her that she was trying to avoid somebody. And when she got to the well, she found Jesus sitting there and he said, Give me to drink. And she said, Well I don't have anything to draw water with. You don't have anything. And so uh he he said, Listen, I I've got something to give you. And uh again, she she try she's trying to think in physical and literal ways, and Jesus is speaking in a spiritual manner. And he tells her that there is a there's water. There's water for you. I know you're thirsty, he said. And he said, I know you're looking for something and you ain't found it yet. That you you you've been trying everything and and that's why he said, Go call your husband. She said, Well, I don't have a husband. He said, You said right. You said right. You got the five, the five. She's looking for something. Are you following me? But yet but let me say something. When when when she went away the last time After having received, I believe, and believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, she realized that she had gotten more than a cup of cold water. She had gotten the whole well of eternal life in the Lord Jesus Christ. And she had experienced this gift of life in Jesus Christ. Folks, listen, Jesus is life The Bible says in First John I was reading it this morning, He's the light. If we walk in the light as He is in the light, We have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. There's a well you need to go to, and there's a well the devil's trying to fill up. You know what he's filling it up with? Religion. He's trying to fill it up with religion. And man, that he he's got her overflowing in some places. That well is stopped up with all sorts of religious exercises and all sorts of religious thinking. There are those that are striving over that well, saying, It's, you know, it's my well, and it's my way. I like what Jesus said when Joshua met him out there before they entered the promised land to do battle. Joshua said, as a great soldier that he was, he said, Whose side are you on? And the Lord said, I'm the captain of the Lord of hosts. In other words, I'm not here to take sides, I'm here to take over. And I'm grateful, my friend, when the Lord takes over. Listen, beloved, salvation is found in Christ. You need to go back to that well. You you can try to find salvation and all the good deeds and all of the uh religious ceremonies you want to, but you'll never find it until you in childlike faith believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And be born again. No other way. No other way. That's the first well. Isaac started there. That's where you've got to start, and that's where I've got to start. Do you have it settled today? I read Isaiah 12 on purpose because it says, therefore, with joy shall you draw water out of the wells of salvation. That's a well we need to get back to. There's joy there. There's joy in that well. You know, no matter what happens to you, if you're saved, you're saved. Praise the Lord. Give Christmas. I mean, no matter what goes on around you, in you, all right till it happens, you're saved. And thank God you've got heaven to look forward to. I don't care what the world has to say about that. A lot of them say, well, that's escapism, that's pie in the sky. Call it what you want to, but it's the living hope of every born-again child of God. That we have heaven waiting on us. And when this world is over, when this time is done, we leave our earthly pilgrimage, there's a home waiting. There's a building prepared. There's a place made, not by the hands of men, but by the hand of God. And that is our sweet home. Reunion day's coming. Rejoicing time is coming. Folks, listen, that's the well of salvation. That well of salvation opens all this up for you. I trust you've been to that well. If you've not, if you have not, come to that well. It's not dug in a locale, it's not dug in a place. I can't say come to Elfton, Maryland, because that's where the well is. I can't say go to the Middle East and find Jerusalem and go to a place out somewhere in the desert and say there's a well there. You know where you gotta do you gotta come to him by faith. You've got to come to him as a as just a broken sinner. That's what you are. Broken, bruised, ruined, in need of redemption. Listen, that the the the prayer you pray is insignificant compared to the person to whom you pray. We for ages have put a whole lot of emphasis on something the Bible don't. Let me say that again. For ages we put emphasis on something the Bible does not. Pray the sinner's prayer. What what what 's the sinner's prayer? There's a lot of sinners prayed. Some said help, some said remember. Some said, Have mercy. But they all but listen, it was to whom they were speaking that mattered. They said, Lord, oh I love that story or account of the thief on the cross. And all that man did was say, Lord, remember me Remember me, he didn't pray some eloquent theological p prayer. He just made a plea from his heart. Lord, we're dying. We're about to leave here. And listen, what we need, you've got, remember me, and the Lord said this day, shalt thou be with me in paradise Oh my friend, I'd rather hear that than all the applause of this world. When he left out of here, he left out of here saved, because he made a trip to the well. of salvation. Let me say there's another well here. It's found in verse 21. It says they digged another well and strove for that also, and he called the name of it Sitna. You'll notice that well, there was an ongoing battle. They strode for that also. There was a wrestling match, if you will, over this well. But then notice the naming of this well, it's called Sitna. Do you know what that word means? It means to hate, of the hemot hatred, a strong hatred. You say, what do you mean? Here's what I mean. The true feelings of the enemy came out at this well. Now they battled somewhat Cordially, if you can battle cordially. But they battled somewhat cordially, and they said, It's this is our water. This is our water. You dug the well, but this is our water, when they dug the first well But at this well, there was no cordial dealings here. They said, Isaac said, This is Sitna. They hate us. They hate us. You know why they hate us? Because there's a difference. You say, what kind of well are we digging here? We're digging the well of separation. You know what the Bible says? Marvel not, in 1 John 3:13, marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. Why does the world hate you? Why you know something? We live in an age where there's very little difference between those that name Christ's name and those that deny it. No distinction. I I I don't know that the world hates many uh believers today because many believers are not living in the light of truth or walking close to the Lord. Because there's a hatred drawn. And I'm not talking about for ages. Again, this thing's been so distorted that we've made ignorance An excuse for our behavior. And we've caused people to hate us justly so. I don't know how else to say it other if you act like an idiot, people are going to treat you like one. And you can be a Christian and and and act in such a way that draws the ire of the enemy and it has nothing to do with Christ. It has everything to do with your with you. But this is true separation. You know you don't have to invite a distinction if you're distinct. You don't have to call attention to it. You don't have to say, hey, look at me, I'm different. You don't have to do that. You just are. If you just is what you is, you'll be what you are. And folks will see it and say, well, they're not like us. We were traveling through a northern state and stopped to have lunch one day. And I put my order in, and the lady said, You're not from around here. So well what told you that? And I found out in a hurry that it was clear that we weren't them. You follow what I'm trying to say? There's a distinction. Folks, listen. If you've been saved by the wonderful grace of God, you're not them. Understand this. We're not saying you're up here. You're not better than you're better off. You and I are not better than anyone. Listen, if there's any good thing in you, it's because Jesus put it there. Give him the glory for it. There's nothing I can brag about or boast about. Everything sinful comes right out of me. Everything graceful comes straight from glory. It's Him, it's all of Him. But my friend, the reality is that He's made you different You're in the world, you're not of the world. He's been and here's what I can't understand. I can't get my head around a Christianity that wants to go back into what God just pulled you out of. What in the world are we doing trying to get back in the same mess that he dug us out of? I saw a fella he was trying to pull this animal, it was a wild animal, he had a trap line, and it had gotten in one of his traps. And he was trying to rescue it. And he'd pull it out and the crazy thing had run back in. And he'd pull it out, it'd run back in. And he tried this five or six times. Every time he pulled it out, it ran back in. It'd go right back in. I thought, isn't that like us? God saves us out of a mess, what do we do? We end up going right back. God saves us out of a out of the sinful lifestyle, and here we we start edging right back, getting closer, getting closer, getting closer. That listen, God saves you. For so much more. There's a distinction here. The Bible still says, Come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and I will receive you Now here's the emphasis on this on this distinction or separation. Listen, I don't come out just to be out. I come out to get in. I come out to get close. I come out so I can get near. I can't come to him with the stench of the world on me. I've got to have it washed off. I've got to get cleaned up. Well, I learned that lesson in a hurry when I first got married. Aren't you thankful for for your wife, for these ladies? They bring so much better things. Better things. I'd lived six months by myself working on the farm and it was awful easy to come home, hang my coveralls in the kitchen on the nail I drove in the wall. Sit down and eat my supper, go to sleep, get up, go the next day. I couldn't smell me. Cows didn't care. You get what I'm trying to say? As you can tell, she's polished this old pig a little bit. But buddy, when I got married, first thing she said, those come rolls don't hang in this house. Those things stink. I said, I don't smell them. And I learned in a hurry that didn't matter. So I put them out. And then when I'd go to give her a big hug, she'd say, Hold on a minute. You've been at the barn. And the things of the barn were on me. And you know what? I I learned a cleaning up was worth the aggravation. Just to get close. I I'm trying to help us understand that the Lord wants me to be close. But He's gotta clean me up. I've got to get cleaned up. My life's got to be a different life. I can't wallow in the filth of this world and have fellowship with my Father who's in heaven. I've got it there's a cleanness here. Isaac dub this well, and my friend, that well of separation, he understood there's a difference between us. These men of Gerar, they're Philistines, they hate us. By the way, that culminates way down the road. In a battle with a little boy and a big giant. And God demonstrates very clearly whose side he's on. And what I'm trying to say is this, if you're going to if you're going to dig some wells, get back to that well separation. Marinatha Baptist Church, we need a separatist stance in a biblical way. There's been a lot of add-ons. Been a lot of tag alongs. And a lot of it is just man's ideas that says, now y you know, you're not right with God because you don't listen, I'm not worried about crossing your eyes. Or tease and not in your eyes, I'm worried about pleasing the Lord. And that's that's where our we ought to draw the line where God draws the line. Let God draw the line and get on that side of God's line and walk in a way that pleases the Lord. Need to go back to that well. What about this third well? They dig again, the Bible says in verse 22, and he removed from thence and digged another well. And note this, for that they strove not. And he called the name of it Rehoboth. And he said, For now the Lord hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land. This well, we're going to call it the smile of God, the well of the smile of God. Because here's a principle. Proverbs 16:7. When a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him. It's almost like when he dug the well that Isaac said, I'm ready to fight. Where are they? Now what it it seems to m uh say? It says they digged another well and for that they strode not. It's almost as if he shot. They didn't fight over this one. The Philistines were not looking for him here. The Bible says that this they named it Rehoboth, and that means a broad place, big and fruitful. And I believe what we see here is that the smile of heaven was on Isaac's activity. God was pleased. And God said, because I'm pleased, you're going to be blessed. Because I'm pleased, I'm going to smile on this. And I'm going to hold the enemy back, and I'm not going to let a battle be held on this ground. This is going to be a place of rest for you. I'm going to give you peace. You know what Isaac proved here? That he had one thing in mind, and that was pleasing the Lord. And my friend, listen, you and I need the smile of heaven on our lives. We need to go back to digging this well of just pleasing the Lord. How much of what we do is really to please the Lord? How much of what we're involved in is really about? God, I want to please you. I want you pleased. I want you pleased with my attitude. I want you pleased with my activities. Lord, I want you to be pleased with the things that I choose to do. How much of our lives Are really focused on pleasing the Lord. He knew, listen, he knew the battle was going to be fought. He knew the Philistines were going to withstand him. But he said, Lord, I'm just going to keep digging. We may fight over everyone, but I'm going to keep digging. I want to please you. I want to please you. I'll tell you what that'll do. That'll keep you going when you want to quit. That'll keep you going when you don't want to go again. That'll keep you serving and standing and staying true and faithful. Listen, my friend, if you'll just live to please the Lord, we need to go back to that well of the smile of God. God, I just want to please you. Oh, to be singular-minded. You know why we're not separated? Why we're not separated and we don't go back to that well? Because we want to please too many people. We want to please the crowd. Isn't it funny that the crowd that you please today may crucify you tomorrow? That outfit that said, Hosanna, Hosanna, blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord. Not many days later, crucify him, crucify him, his blood be on us and our children. Such is the fickle nature of man. But oh my friend, there's one smile that matters. And there's one we ought to live to please. And that's the Lord. Go dig that well. Go back to that well. Here's the final well. And we're going to call it the Well of Scripture. You'll notice it's called the Well of Sheba. And the word Sheba means oath or promise. Because here at this well, Abimelech and others come and they make a covenant here. And it's at this at this well God does something here that He's not done anywhere else. There's an appearance here, there's an altar here, there's an acknowledgement here. And so at this well of promise, at this well of oath, God does something special. I want you to note this well of Scripture. Because is that not what the Bible is? It's the oath of God. It's the promise of the Lord. It's what God has given us, and we What do we stand on and what do we believe in and what do we know about the Lord with any authority? We know and believe and stand right what where the Bible says. What the Bible says And so this well, this well of scripture, you'll notice there was an appearance. Verse 24 And the Lord appeared unto him the same night and said, I am the God of Abraham, thy father. Fear not, for I am with thee. And will bless thee and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham's sake. You know what happened here? God met him. God met with Isaac here at Sheba, or as it's called, beersheba. It was here that God met with him. There was an appearance. And can I say to you that if you want to meet with God, you'll never do it with a closed Bible? You'll never do it with a closed Bible. I'm so thankful for devotional aids and all of these other tools that we have, but that's all they are, they're tools. They're like icing on the cake or dessert after a meal. They're not the main thing. They can never take the place of the main thing. The main thing is the Word of God. If you want to meet God and know God and walk with God, you've got to do it with an open Bible. You can't do it with a closed book Folks, this Bible is so precious because it's through its pages God reveals Himself. Have you met with Him lately? And I'm not talking in a mystical manner or some weird and distorted thing. I'm talking about opening the Bible and reading it until you say, that's him. That's him. He's saying something to me here. He's dealing with me about this here. He's working in my heart here. We see that well of Scripture. There was an appearance, but there was also an altar. You'll notice that he built an altar here. Only well. It's the only well that he built an altar at. He built an altar here and he called upon the name of the Lord and pitched his tent there. He decided this was good enough, I need to stay here. This this place is so pleasant and so profitable. I'm just going to put my tent up and hang around. Oh, that God's people got so in love with their Bible. How many of you? How many of you have a cell phone? That's about everybody, putting here. And I almost promise you that ninety nine percent if you drove away And left it at home, you'd stop, turn around, and go back and get it. I said 99, there's some that won't But there's a whole lot that will. I mean, listen, sometimes we're so attached to that thing, we wake up in the morning, we wake up in the morning, and what are you doing? Your eyes ain't even open. You feel it. Trying to get your lifeline. Huh? It's true. It's important. It's important. You know, it it and and and I I get it. I'm thankful for it. You know, I was thinking the other day There were places I used to hunt and fish before I had a cell phone, and I'd go by myself. My wife didn't know where that place was. There's no way she could ever find it. And really nobody knew I was there except I'd gone hunting or fishing. And I thought, how stupid, I wouldn't do that today. I mean, I guess maybe old men think different than young men, right? What if I fall? You know? I I didn't care back then, I'd get up and crawl back or leave or whatever. But now if you fall you get you think, well at least I can call. You know, somebody come get me. Right? Well, it it it's a tool, it's a very useful tool. But let me how how how connected How many of you started your day and never even cracked it open? How many of you came to church this morning and said, Where did I leave that last Sunday? I can't find it and save my life. Huh? How connected? I'm not trying to humiliate anybody or just heap false guilt on you. I'm just trying to get us to see this morning that the reality is, man, there's a well here. There's a well here. There's life in this book. If you want to stay alive spiritually, you better get in this well. You better drink deep out of this well. It'll feed your hungry soul. Listen, it'll quench every thirst you got. There's water to be found in this book. There was an altar. You know what an altar is? An altar is a place where you do business with God. That's what an altar was for. You know why they build altars? Because they wanted to do something with God. They wanted to have some kind of interaction with God. That's why we have an old-fashioned alder in Marinath Baptist Church and will, so long as God allows me to be your pastor. Because we need a place to do business with God. Preaching isn't just about entertaining your mind. Preaching isn't just about just passing the moments. Preaching is about getting to a place where I do business with God. I say yes to what God wants me to say yes to, and no to what God wants me to say no to And I do business with God. That's what an altar's about. Isaac built him an altar and he got down to business and said, Now, Lord , You made a promise to me. I'll tell you this place changed. Beersheba changed Isaac. Up until this point, Isaac wasn't too serious, but now he's dead serious. Up to this point, Isaac didn't count for much. Now he's about to count. You know, we need more Christians who will build an altar around this scripture. And say, God, I want my life to make a difference. I want to be serious. How many Christians are serious? Now, if I ask you this morning And said, are you serious about living for the Lord? And I don't I don't want a just a you know a bland Sunday morning answer. But I mean are we are we really serious Or are we serious uh enough that that that our life is there's something more important than just being alive? I read the story of that, I believe it was a German soldier, a saved German soldier, who entered a place of worship. And made threats and said, I'll kill every Christian in this place who names the name of Christ. But I'm giving you a chance to leave. And many left. And the few that remained, the few that remained, sat waiting for imminent death. He locked the door and he said, Let's worship. For I wanted to rid this place of all who are false. If God did that here , brother and sister, how many of us would remain? How many of us would remain? How many of us are serious enough that God's more important in life? How many of us are so serious about this thing that Christianity is not something we're playing? It's not hoops we're jumping through. It's not a game that we're involved in How many of us are serious enough to say, hey, this means something to me? This is real to me. Christ is real to me. This Bible is life to me. I can't be parted from it. I can't be separated from it. It's so crucial to me. It means everything to me. It's my all in my all. That's the well we need to get back to. It's good to see all of you here on a rainy Sunday. I understand people get sick and have problems. But how many people will sit in a stadium soaking wet or covered in snow, won't get in a car and drive to the house of God and have an umbrella over their head and not one drop touch 'em, save maybe the wind blows a little sprinkle in their face. And say, well, the weather's bad. Don't tell me Jesus is everything if that's all it takes to derail you. Don't tell me Jesus means everything to you. When it doesn't take that much, well, you know what? He didn't shake my hand. I'm just gonna stay home. Huh? Folks, I'm not being ugly, but folks get out of sorts over just the littlest old things. And these little things derail us, and then we say, gee, we sing that song I can't sing, but Jesus is all the world to me, my life, my strength, my all. And Andy looks at me funny and I get mad and say, I'm not going back there. Well, did you ever take in consideration Andy may just look funny? And I say that in dear love. Because Andy is a strong brother. The reality is he's really not all that we claim him to be in our lives. Sadly, it's sometimes just show. It's mere thing that we put on. It's cultural. It's what I I've warned many about. Cultural Christianity is not the same as Bible Christianity. There's a cultural Christianity that's Christ in name only, but it does not bear the nature of true Christianity. My friend, listen, they took the blessed people out of this book, the men and women that that that God used and recorded their lives, and they nailed them on trees and they impaled them on stakes. And they threw them to lions, and yet they wouldn't deny that lovely name. Now that's Bible Christianity. Something that loves Jesus more than life. Something that says he's more dear to me than all this wicked world. I'm saying to you, my friend, there's a well where we need to build an altar. It's the well of Scripture. And then there's a well of acknowledgement. You'll notice something these men said to Isaac. They said in verse 28 , We saw certainly that the Lord was with thee. Do you see that? The Lord's with you. And it says in verse 29: Thou art now the blessed of the Lord. Isaac. There's something different about you. God is blessing. You know what the New Testament parallel of this is? 2 Corinthians 3 18. But we all with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. Do you know when you get to meet and write regularly with God at this well, he'll change you in such a way others will acknowledge it? They will know that you've been with Jesus They will know that you've been in his company. They will know that you've walked with him, that you've talked with him, because he stamps something on you, perhaps invisible, and would to God it were more. Oh, for a holy ignorance of the shine that God paints on his people. My friend, listen, nobody's shining who's talking about the shining. Nobody's shining that's saying, I'm such a good Christian. Why look at how look at how much like Jesus I am. You ain't shining, you're showing off. The shine listen, Moses came down off the mountain, he had been with God forty days, and the people said, Moses, you're hurting our eyes. And Moses said, What what are you talking about? He didn't know what was going on. They said, put a veil over your face. You're hurting our. We can't look at you. You're too the glory of God was stamped on him. And my friend, you won't spend time in this book and be what you've always been. It'll change you forever. There'll be an unho there'll be an unusual and a holy shine that God will paint all over you. And it'll be no it listen, it'll be what was known of those early disciples. They took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. Somehow say that person has been with the Lord. That person has been with the Lord. Folks, we need to go back to this book. An old Scottish preacher lay dying. He said to the children gathered around his bedside, bring me the book. Bring me the book. His children said, Father, what book? You have thousands. Your library is filled. What book do you speak of? And he said with sternness, Children, bring me the book There's only one book. Take all the others, but leave me my Bible. Hey, this has been a staff for me to lean on many a weary day This Bible's been a compass to guide me through the dark. It's been food when I've been hungry and water when I've been thirsty. It's been a shelter over my head in the storm. It's been help from God Almighty in the darkest places of life. Thank God for his word, church. You need to get back to the well. And it may be that there's some things need to go in your life to make room for this. If you're too busy for your Bible, you're too busy. First church I pastored, there's an old man named Freeman Cook. He was a contractor. He built log cabins there in the mountains. And I believe Brother Freeman was originally from Florida. No, Alabama. He'd been a prison guard down there. And uh he was a warden in a prison for a long time. And he got a chance to get out early, and he got out, and he started this business and he built these fine homes. He loved to trout fish. And our little church sat like from here to the parking lot to a real nice trout stream that they stocked regular. One day Freeman came in. I'd only been there just a few weeks and I was working and he knocked on the door and said, come in. He came in. Freeman said, Let's go fishing, preacher. I said to Freeman, I'm so busy. I I got I started telling him what and I'll never forget what he said. He got real close. He's a very stern man when he wanted to be. He got he got right on the edge of my desk. He said, A man that's too busy to fish is too busy. I'll never forget that. You say, What'd you do? Look, I had a suit and a tie, I had all the gear and uh but I did have my fishing pole and a truck. I'm I'm not near as ignorant as I may look at times. And uh you say, What'd you do? I went fishing in my suit and my tie and I was the most well dressed fisherman on the banks of Jonathan River that day. We fished. And I'm gonna say something, friend, if you're too busy to take time to be in this book, you're too busy. It may be you're distracted. It may be that you've using some cheap substitutes. It may be that you've got wound up and stuff that don't make a hill of beans or real pins. But whatever it is, there's something needs to go, you can get back in your Bible. I'm going to tell you something. If we don't get the Bible back in our churches, people, we get the Bible back in our school. We need to get listen, we need to get back in our church. Our churches are impoverished today for a lack of the Word of God. We've got to get our Bibles back in our churches, back in our homes, back in our personal lives. We need this book. Go back to that well. Whatever it is took you out of the Bible. It's from the Philistines. And it's stopping up your well. Get to digging and throw it out. We had a little well, and I'll close with this. Well it was an 85 foot well when I grew up. That was where our water came from. It was a hand dug well, and uh they had encased it with stone and mortar all twenty foot down. And we started having problems. I think I was maybe eleven, ten or eleven, we we'd run out of water. If you run water to do something, it y then there'd be no water. And so my dad being the person that he was. He believed if he could do it he didn't need nobody else to do it. So he went in the woods and he cut a big white oak tree down, went to the hardware store and bought some steel cable, made a little harness to put around him, got some of the men of the community to lower him down in that well. They took a bucket and rigged up a hook on it and they lowered that down. I'll never forget that day. He spent nearly the whole day in that well digging that thing out Over the years it had three sources of water coming into it, and the silt and the debris had filled it up until only about half of one of those streams was still flowing. So there wasn't much water in it. And he dug and he dug and he dug. I remember when he when they brought him back up, he was blue, and I don't know if he was blue because of lack of oxygen. Or from the cold of the water, because he went down ten foot below the flow of water and he said that water'd run on him for hours, just that cold water And I still see him sitting on the steps, shaking, and them wrapping him up and him trying to get his composure. I remember what he said. He said, We'll have water now. And I'll tell you, it wasn't long. That well filled up. It filled nearly to the top. You know why? He cleaned it out. You don't have to go around living in spiritual drought. You just need to go dig some wells out. There may be some wells you need to clean out. If you're not saved, you need to come to the the well of the Lord Jesus Christ and get the well of life. Believe on him. My friend, it may be you're a Christian, but your your well 's full of filth, and that well of separation needs to be visited, and some things need to be dug out. It may be the well of the smile of God. You've been trying to please maybe yourself or others around you and and you just can't seem to to to get joy or or or obtain that Peace that comes from saying, Well, they're pleased. I'll tell you what, there's nothing like putting your head on your pill at night and saying, Lord, are you pleased? If you're pleased, I don't care who's displeased, so long as you're pleased. And it may be that well of the scriptures that needs to be cleaned out. You know the Bible says there's fullness of joy. And I believe there's times that we don't have that because we're not drinking out of the right well. There's a well here for you, brother, sister. Let's go back to those old wells. Isaac didn't go digging around looking for new ones, because he knew there was water in those old ones. He knew there was something that would sustain his family. and his children and his children's children and he said, I'm going to go there 'cause I know there's water there. Can I tell you something? There's water here There's water here. I know the world saying, come dig over here. Go dig over there. Let's go. But I'm telling you something. There's water here. There's life-giving, life-flowing water. In this well. Let's go back to the well. What well do you need to clean out? Maybe more than one of them. But let's clean out some whales. Would you stand with me? Both outcome, please be ready. Let's close our eyes and bow our heads and ask