That we are blessed and uh so the Lord's been so good. And I believe part of the reason we need to gather on the Lord's day and meet in his house is to be reminded of what's really important. That God has blessed us. And that He's been far better to us than we deserve. And we want to be very careful to give Him all the glory for that and thank Him. For blessing us indeed. I want you to open your Bibles this morning to 2 Timothy chapter number 2. 2 Timothy chapter number 2. And I'd like to read, beginning in verse number 8, and I think I'll read down to about verse number 14 of 2 Timothy chapter number 2. Our text is the first word of the first verse that we will read, and it's this word, remember. I'd like to preach the Lord helping me on a call to remember. Remember. Someone said that the human tendency to forget And the importance of the truths that are in the Word issue a call to remember. There are some things we cannot afford to forget. Now you can forget a lot of things. I mean I'm not going to embarrass you this morning and say, who in here has forgotten something this week? You know, we're uh some of us here are are uh have a lot of stock in post-it notes. All right? And so we probably there could be enough people in this building to keep that company in business for a long, long time, so long as we're alive, because we need reminders, we need reminders. But in the Bible Paul's got some post-it notes in this chapter in this particular section, and he says, I want you to remember this. Don't forget it. Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead according to my gospel. Wherein I suffer trouble as an evildoer, even unto bonds, but the word of God is not bound. Therefore, I endure all things for the elect 's sake, that they may also obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. It is a faithful saying, for if we be dead with him, we shall also live with him. If we suffer, we shall also reign with him. If we deny him, he also will deny us. If we believe not, yet he abideth faithful. He cannot deny himself. Of these things put them in remembrance, charging them before the Lord that they strive not about words to no profit, but to the subverting of the hearers. You know what Paul's saying? There are some things so important you dare not forget them. And you can't make too much ado over them so that you don't forget them. And so you pray with me if you would, and we'll study this truth, this thing of remember. Father, help us. We pray this morning. We come before you and again confess the great need of our own heart. And Lord, we pray that you would come and just be near us and meet the great need of every heart and be glorified in this place. But these few minutes, Lord, would you empty me of me and fill me with thee and hide me behind the cross so that I might rightly lift up the Lord Jesus Would you speak to our hearts as only you can? And Lord, we'll thank you and praise you for all that you do, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said Amen. Do you know the Bible Has over 200 commands that we're told to remember. Over 200 times in the Bible it says remember. Or do this in remembrance or bring to mind. In fact, the whole book of Deuteronomy Is a book about remembering what God's done. It's a reiterating of what God's done so that we'll remember what He's done. The children of Israel were told to repeat. To repeat the things God has done for them. You make sure you tell it again and again and again and again. Now, some of us have got to the point in life we don't have trouble. repeating our stories. Amen. And so we tell them again and again. We and and you know it gets pretty bad when you you stop and think. I said something to my son the other day. I said, have I told you this before And he said, yeah, about ten times. I said, all right, make this number eleven, because I don't want you to forget it, right? It's important there are some things that, church, we gotta remember. There's some things we gotta remember. And and we've got to make sure that those coming behind us remember them too. That they not forget these things. And again, there are about four things that are catalogued here in this passage I just read that Paul said, Timothy, remember this. Don't forget it. Don't worry about, don't get caught up in that striving about words to no profit. Don't get caught up in fighting these little things that are of no consequence. You know, it would be like a man who's swatting at mosquitoes when he's got missiles coming at his direction, you know. He said there's things that are important, things that are vital, things that are crucial. Remember these things. Remember. Do you know that God's given us two resources to help us remember? Two very powerful resources. Would you go back to the Gospel of John? I want you to see these. And the primary purpose, John chapter 14, the primary purpose of these is so that we will remember. John chapter 14, I'll just read one verse. In John chapter 14 and verse number 26, look what the Bible says. But the comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things. Note this. And bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I've said unto you. That's his job. And I can just say it that way, I'm not being disrespectful of the Holy Ghost, but it's his work. His ministry is to remind me Have you ever been uh trying to call to mind a verse or maybe talking to somebody and immediately like that a verse comes to your mind? Or a truth of scripture comes to your mind. Do you know who does that? That's not The vitamins you're taking to enhance your memory. That's not what that is. That's not your great ability to recall. Some people have that It's not that at all. The Bible says he would give you a comforter, the Holy Ghost, and He will bring to remembrance all things whatsoever I've said unto you. The Holy Spirit of God is going to bring to your mind a memory. He's going to remind you of what the Lord said. He's going to remind you of the Word of God. That's His ministry. That's a powerful resource. When you stop and think about it, it's so important that I remember God has put somebody in me to remind me. He's given me the Holy Spirit. Then notice the second resource, and we've got to go over here to 2 Peter. 2 Peter chapter number 1. And I want you to note these because these are resources God has given us to remember things that are critically important. 2 Peter, and let's start here, chapter 1. Let's pick up in verse number 12. Peter's writing to these believers, and watch what he says, wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things. You know, we live in a day where a lot of people they talk about things and they they they talk about these things uh that they uh you know this is a new truth this is something you've never heard before I saw a fellow advertise the other day he said come hear something the Lord showed me that nobody else knows And I immediately my radar went off and I said, Mm, I don't know about that. I don't know that that what he's gonna say is actually worth hearing because you know the old saying, anything New is likely not true, and everything that's true is absolutely not new. He says, I'm not going to be negligent. I'm going to remind you And by the way, to remind you, I'm going to repeat myself. I'm going to repeat myself because these are things you can't forget. He said, though you know them and be established in the present truth. Yea, I think it meet, as long as I am in this tabernacle to stir you up by putting you in remembrance, knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ hath showed me. Moreover, I will endeavor that ye may be able after my decease to have these things always in remembrance. Peter said, as long as I'm alive, I'm going to keep telling you this. And I'm going to repeat myself on purpose. And I'm going to remind you and remind you and remind you, but I'm also going to do something so that when I'm gone, you'll still be able to remember. So what's he going to do? Verse 16. We have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. But were I witnesses of his majesty? For he received from God the Father honor and glory when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And this voice which came from heaven we heard when we were with him in the Holy Mount. Now Peter's saying, I've heard some things. Audibly, I've heard the voice of God. I've heard that voice, and that voice spoke these things to me. Now watch what he says in verse 19. We have, we who've not heard that voice, we have also a more sure word of prophecy. Whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn and the day star arise in your hearts Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man. But holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. You know what Peter said? He said, I'm going to write this down. And this scripture, which is being written down, is going to serve as the reminder you need of what's really important. It's going to be preserved. Aren't you glad God's preserved his word? Not only did God inspire the word, he breathed it, but he's preserved the word, and in the preservation of the word is an eternal reminder. of what's important or what's true. And so I've got two resources at my disposal this morning to remind me I have the Holy Spirit in me And I have the Word of God given to me, and these two serve as a reminder of truth. Remember, don't forget these things he says. So what are these four things? And you know when you break them down back here in our text in 2 Timothy chapter 2, starting in verse 8. When you break them down, you realize that these are the bedrock truths of our faith. They're those things that if you move one, the whole thing comes collapsing. It's absolutely vital and fundamental. So let me give you those quickly this morning. Number one, the first bedrock of our faith that we are to remember It seems so simple, but the truth is we often forget this, maybe perhaps not in uh in principle, but we do in practice. And that is this: Jesus lives. He's alive. Look what Paul said there. He said, Remember, he's starting off his list now. That Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead according to my gospel. Remember that Jesus is alive. So far as we know, Timothy did not have the privilege Paul did. As far as we know, Timothy didn't see the resurrected Christ. He did not have the opportunity to view him, to see him, to lay eyes on him. He did not have that privilege. He could not see The the Lord Jesus, like Paul did. Now Paul had that opportunity. He met him on the Damascus Road. He viewed the resurrected Christ. That's why he wore that title of the apostle to the Gentiles. Timothy didn't have that But what Timothy did have was a inspired and inspired preserved record that said Jesus is alive. And because of that, he needed the reminder that Jesus Christ lives. And I don't know about you, but every once in a while, my heart needs the reminder that Jesus Christ is alive. There's two things he said here that are interesting to me that prove he's alive. Number one, he talks about his seed And number two, he talks about the scripture. First, he talks about the seed. Notice, Jesus Christ, the seed of David. What's he talking about? We'll not take the time, but if you go back to 2 Samuel chapter number 7 when God appeared to David, he said that your throne will be established forever. That means somebody's going to sit on your throne from your lineage for all of eternity. That throne will be established forever. So let's walk through that. King David had a son named Solomon. And Solomon lived, he ruled, he sat on the throne, and he died. They buried him. Then Solomon had a son, Brahaboam, and he lived, tore things up, like the Bible said he would, like the Lord said he would. But nevertheless, he lived He died, they buried him. And we could follow that lineage all the way through, but I want you to look at this scripture over here in the book of Acts when when uh Peter was preaching on the day of Pentecost He pointed out something very important about the Lord Jesus Christ. In Acts chapter number two, look down with me at verse 25, I believe it is. Yeah, where it starts talking about David. Acts chapter two, verse twenty-five. Look what it says. David speaketh concerning him. I foresaw the Lord always before my face, for he is on my right hand that I should not be moved Therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue was glad. Moreover, also my flesh shall rest in hope. Because thou wilt not have my or leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. Thou hast made known to me the ways of life. Thou shalt make me full of joy with thy countenance. Now look what he says. He interprets scripture here for us. Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the patriarch David. that he is both dead and buried, and his sepulchre is with us unto this day. Therefore, being a prophet, knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, that of the fruit of his loins according to the flesh He would raise up Christ to sit on his throne. He seeing this before spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his soul was not left in hell, neither his flesh did see corruption. Look at verse 32. This Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we are all witnesses. You see, the resurrection is all about the fact that Jesus is that eternal seed that was promised to David. And when Paul told Timothy to remember that Jesus lives, he said, remember whose seed he's from. Remember, he's from the good stock. He's from that promised and that line of that that Messiah. He is the Messiah. And he fulfills all of the scriptures, and therefore it was impossible for him to stay dead He died according to the scriptures. He was buried, but thank God he also rose again. Jesus lives because of the seed. I was talking we were talking yesterday about saving our seed. My dad never bought seed, to my knowledge. When he planted his garden, it was always from seed that he had kept. And it was seed that he had kept from his father and, I don't know, maybe from their hi his father, his grandfather. It went it went back Uh Elizabeth's dad had seed that went back like 150 years we could trace and seed that we kept alive. We still have some of it, and we're we're trying to preserve it and keep it going. But it it was good seed. I remember Dad used to take those uh particular beans that he liked. They were called greasy cut shorts And they were short little stumpy beans and the outer shell of them was very very shiny. And uh I always thought it was because they were greasy. They were greasy because mom had always put bacon fat In them when she cooked them, you know. She made them extra greasy. But uh nevertheless that seed, and Dad would say, Now this is good seed. He'd always say they say, Now this is good seed We've had this a long time. It produces, it yields, every year it does what it's supposed to. You don't have to worry about this. This is good seed. And Paul said, Timothy, if you ever get to worrying about the fact, is Jesus Christ alive or not, you remember he's a good seed. He's of the seed of David. He's of that lineage over whom there's a promise been put that he would reign and rule for all of eternity. Jesus Christ lives according to the seed. But secondly, he lives according to the scriptures. In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, the gospel is given. And Paul very clearly lays out what the gospel is, that Christ died for our sins, verse 2, according to the Scripture. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scripture. And then the very next verse, verse number five. He talks about all of those who saw him, who witnessed him, who laid their eyes on him, and said, many of them are are alive to this day. You could go ask them. They were there. They witnessed this. They know he is alive. If the Bible says anything, church, the Bible says emphatically, there's no shadow, there's no No innuendo, there's no suggestion, there's no doubting. It says very clearly, very plainly, very convictingly that Jesus Christ is alive. If you knew nothing of the Bible and knew nothing of religion and knew nothing of Jesus Christ and read simply the New Testament, you would walk away saying, that man died, but he rose again. He was dead, but he is alive now. And everyone who followed him from the point of their salvation on testified that Jesus Christ is alive. In fact, when you read about the apostles in the book of Acts and those early Christians, the Bible says that it was with great grace witness Was given to them that or there was grace given to them that they might bear witness of the resurrection of Jesus Christ These men and women were convincing. They had been convinced because they were converted. Church, we live often like he's dead, but let me remind you, he's very much alive. They say, I've read it in several sources, that Martin Luther's wife came dressed to the kid the breakfast table in mourning clothes, M-O-U-R-N-I-G. She was grieving as if someone who had died. And Luther was shocked by that, and he looked to her and he said, Who died? She said, God did the way you're acting. And she very convictingly made a statement to Mr. Luther and and who God greatly used in a in a mighty way that Jesus Christ is alive. That He He yes He died for our sin. And yes He was buried. But thank God on the third day He rose again. And He lives this morning, Church. Jesus lives. Your feelings may say something, the world you live in may say another. Your circumstances may scream and say he's not alive. If he was alive. Then why is this or why is that? But know this beyond a shadow of a doubt, Jesus Christ lives and he lives forever. Rest assured and always remember Jesus lives. Number two, I want you to notice something else said here. Paul's warning young Timothy to remember some things. Do not forget them, they're so vital and so crucial. But he says in verse number nine, wherein I suffer trouble as an evildoer, even under bonds, but the word of God is not bound. Yes, Jesus lives, but please remember this too. The Bible is unstoppable. The Bible is unstoppable. Aren't you grateful? Now here we see his servant. This is the Lord's servant, and he says, I'm suffering trouble, even under bonds. In other words, he's locked up. His ministry, so far as he knows it, is stopped. They put him in prison. By the way, it's not going to be long, they're going to put him to death. And he'll be silenced. The servant here is silenced. The servant is stopped. But he gives this great encouragement when he speaks of the Word of God is not bound. We see the servant's bonds, but I want you to also see the Scripture's blessings. The Scripture's blessings, look, the Bible is not tied up, it's not chained, it's not enslaved. It cannot be done away with. Now, if there has ever been a book that has been hated, despised, and men have sought to destroy, it's the one sitting in your lap right now. The devil has hated the Bible from its inception, and from that time forward, he's waged all-out war to destroy it. He's tried to burn it. He's tried to ban it. He's tried to do everything in his power to eliminate it. He would love it if the Bible would banish from society. In fact, some foolish men have even taken the step of saying, the Bible will vanish in my lifetime. Some foolish men have said that. But you know what the truth of the matter is? They vanished, but the Bible did not. I was encouraged by something. I don't know the the depths of the accuracy of this statement, but I was told in the last six weeks. Bible sales have have gone up 46 % in our country. I say praise the Lord. It tells me somebody's looking somewhere for something that's true and real. And I'm here to tell you that the Bible is unstoppable. The servants can and the saints can be silenced And our mouths can be closed. And our ability to speak the Word of God may be stopped, but I'm glad that the Word of God will not be bound. It's like a stream that bubbles up from the earth. I remember being told, don't ever dig around a stream uh a springhead because you'll make it go underground. And in our eyes, it looks like it's gone. It disappears. If a spring of of water that that's coming up out of the earth, you can start digging around that thing and and it may disappear. And all of a sudden you think, oh, that spring went dry The truth of the matter is it just went somewhere else. That water, that water comes from a deep source. And it's not going to stop just because you monkeyed with it. It's gonna it may come up somewhere down the it may go two or three miles. You don't know how far it'll go before it'll resurface. What I'm saying is is that puny little man will never eliminate the preserved Word of God He does not have that power. And this Bible is an unstoppable book. There's two things I want you to remember about that. Number one, the Bible endures forever. Go back here to Matthew with me. Matthew chapter number 24. And uh verse number thirty five, I believe it is, Matthew chapter number twenty four Look at this verse and get it settled in your heart. Heaven and earth shall pass away. But my word shall not pass away. The word of God endures forever. This old earth we're living on 's got an expiry date. The Bible says God's going to burn it up. The heavens that you look up into one day are going to pass away with a burning heat, the Bible says. He's going to fold this thing up and everything that has been so stable for centuries will be put away. But when that deed is done, the Bible will still stand. The Bible stands like the old hymn says, like a rock undaunted, amidst the raging waves of time. Listen, the Bible will endure forever, and not only does the Bible endure forever, but if you'll quickly look back in Isaiah, Isaiah chapter number 55 and verse 11, not only does the Bible endure forever, but the Bible will prosper. It will prosper. This is the promise of God. Isaiah 55, 11 says, So shall my words be that goeth forth out of my mouth. It shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it. God will prosper his word. He will bless his word. He will use his word. He will accomplish his word. He'll do everything that he said he would do regarding his word. For the life of me, I don't understand why the church today is trying to get away from the very thing God said he would bless. God didn't say he would bless my promotional ideas. God did not say he would bless uh you know, my publicity and my uh my my efforts to to to to make his name big in all of the ways we think we must You know, I I'm not here to throw rocks, but I'm telling you. The Lord's day ought to be about the Lord's word. It ought to be a it ought to gat we ought to gather around the word of God. We don't why why do we need so much extra added to it to draw us in? You know what we're trying to do? We're trying to draw billy goats with sheep food. Instead of just saying, hey, God said he will bless his word. Do I believe the Bible is enough? Do I believe that God can use his word? Absolutely. I believe that the Bible is enough to get me through this world. It's enough to prepare me for eternity. It's enough to satisfy me in my spiritual want. The Bible will prosper. God will bless it. He will use it, church. I like how Mr. Spurgeon put it. He said, fancy walking the streets of London defending a lion. You don't have to defend a lion. You don't, you know, you just let the thing loose and let it be a lion. It'll defend itself. He said, all these people trying to prop up the Word of God and say Well, you gotta make sure that that you know you defend the word of God, and you gotta make sure that the enemy don't overtake the word of God. God said he will preserve his word, he will protect his word, and he will prosper his word. He sure will. It will work. It worked then, it'll work now. And we not fear, we need not fear that the Bible will never be enough. I've told a couple of young preachers lately, I said, look, the Bible doesn't need your extras to adorn it. It's enough. Just preach the word. You don't need to dress it up so that it's palatable or acceptable. It's okay in itself. You don't have to make it something that it's not. Just state it like it is. Van Sabner used to say, you can't preach it like it is unless you believe it like it was. And the problem is we don't preach it like it is because we don't believe it like it was. But if we believe it like it was, we'll preach it like it is because we know the Bible's true. And Paul said, Timothy, I'm going to pass off the scene, and you're going to live in a different era, and then so on and so forth to the present day. But through it all, remember this: the word of God is not bound. God will prosper his word. What a blessing is attached to the Word of God. Marinatha Baptist Church, when the Bible ceases to be enough, we'll cease to be what we ought to be for God. If we get to the place that you know we need the Bible and we need a little uh chicken dinner on the side so folks will come, we miss the mark. We've missed some art. I I don't even have to have my glasses on to know some of you look at me like I'm just not sure about that preacher We're living in a different age. We're living in a different time that people need I'll tell you what they need. They need the old-fashioned truth of the Bible. People need to know that hell is real and heaven is real and the power of God is real and Jesus saves and the Bible is true. They need to be called back to the eternal verities of the Word of God We must go back to this church. The Bible is unstoppable. And by the way, God's going to use his word. And God's going to use his word in a powerful way, and it does not matter what men do with it. Men can reject it, revile it, they can hate it. They can turn from it, they can do all they want to about it, but they'll never stop it. God's word will prevail. You know, Jesus said this, I will come again. And the scoffer says, Ha, all things continue as they were. For since the fathers fell asleep. I mean, nothing's changed. We've heard that our whole life. Yeah. But one of these days, you're not going to just hear that. You're going to hear him. He will come. Why? Because he promised. This Bible is is is more true than anything you know. It is the bedrock of our faith. And so he says, remember this, Timothy, the Bible's unstoppable. The Bible's unstoppable. Your opinions will die with you. Your notions. You know, some of you are old enough, you've lived long enough, you had some notions when you started out, you don't have no more, and you ought to thank God for it. You were convinced of some things that you started out and you said, Boy, that's awful good. That's real good. I really like it. And now you look back and you say, I can't believe I was so ignorant enough to believe that. Why, you know what straightened you out? The Bible did. I'm glad you know the Bible does it it does a number on bad theology. If we'll just take it and believe it, it will straighten us out on things that are not true. And listen, the Bible is unstoppable. You don't have to worry about the Bible. People say, well, uh, you know, a fellow told me recently, he said, I get the uh biblical archaeology review. And uh he said I I followed that real close because I'm a little nervous about what they might discover. I said, I wouldn't worry about it. I said, it may be that they'll catch up with the Bible, it may be they won't. But the truth of the matter is they're never going to uncover anything that contradicts the Word of God. Why? Because the Bible is unstoppable. Never. You might go back in your family tree and look in your history and say, Ooh, I wished I didn't know that. I was looking, I we got, you know, in the wintertime we when we used to live up north there was uh a little extra time and so I got to researching our family history. And when I found out that the grooms came to this, they actually went first to Prince Edward Island and they came on a prison ship. And I called my dad and I said, You know how we got over here and got started? He said, Oh yeah, I know the story. He started telling me. I said, uh uh. I said, from what I discovered, we got booted out of where we were in England and and put on a a a prison ship and sent over here. He's like, I don't like to hear that. I said, well I don't like to tell that, but it's the truth. For so far as I can tell of tracing these names back And you may go back and say, Man, I don't like finding out those sort of things. But I'm here to tell you, you'll never uncover something sketchy, shady, or sinful about the Word of God. It is God's blessed word, and he said it is not bound. Young Timothy, the Bible's unstoppable. Quickly, number three. Notice what verse number 10 says, Therefore I endure all things for the elect 's sakes, that they may also obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. Timothy, please remember this. And church family remember Jesus lives. The Bible's unstoppable. But here's something very critical. Jesus saves. Jesus saves. See it in the text? That they may also obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. And notice, and I can't step over this because it's in the Bible, notice what he calls the saved. The elect You study in your Bible, the Bible says in 1 Peter. Well, just go over there and read it. I don't want to trust my memory on this. 1 Peter chapter number 1. In verse number two, he says, Elect, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification of the Spirit under obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. That's how he describes the saints. In 2 Timothy 2. 19, he says, the Lord knoweth them that are his. And Paul got some real encouragement down in Corinth when they were giving him a hard time. God came to Paul and said, I've got much people in this city. I have much people in this city. There's much people here that belong to me. Now, these are deep waters to swim in. In fact, they're deeper than I can go. But I will say this: there is a God in heaven who knows who will be saved and who will not be. But there's not a man on earth who does. That's why we preach whosoever. That's why we preach the gospel message of whosoever. And we say whosoever will may come, because that's the truth. We preach that whosoever that Christ died for the sins of the whole world, we preach the truth of the scripture. Now, according to the word of God, He already knows. He already, if if you let me say it like this, the roles already made in heaven. You're not changing anything eternal when you point somebody to Jesus. Get that out of your head. You ain't that big You're not that impressive. These evangelists say, well, I won a thousand souls. Well good, I pray you did. But the reality is you just won those that God already knew would be one. Now that doesn't that doesn't stifle my desire to see soul saves. It stirs them. It reminds me that God is doing a work. God can take a man today who's a persecutor, who's a hater of God, who's a rejector of the gospel, and he can save him in a moment of time. And make a mighty preacher out of him like he did the Apostle Paul. God can do that. And God has done that. But Jesus saves. Not only do I want you to notice the saved in the title, but notice the salvation that is provided. It is in, look at it, in Christ Jesus. Salvation, according to Acts chapter 4, verse 12, is not found in any other. For there's no other name. There is no other name. There's not a listen, there's not a Baptist way, there's not a Paul way, there's not a Methodist way or any other way. There's only the Jesus way to be saved. There's salvation in the what? Listen, there's only one place salvation comes. We often forget this and and and are caught up in our sectarian ideas. That says, well, if you don't get saved my way or this way or that way, and we forget Jesus is the way. He's the only way. He's the only truth. He's the only lie. I'm not going to let somebody put my God in a box that He's bigger than and tell me that there's no other way except that their way or this way, you know I remember years ago going to a meeting and I stood to testify and was talking afterwards and a fellow came up to me and he said, Hey preacher, what text did you take when you got saved? I said, What do you mean? He said, what scripture did you claim? And I said, you're going to have to explain to me what you're talking about. He said, well, we believe, we believe, and he meant we this group that I was with. We believe that if you don't claim a scripture, you don't get converted. And I said to him, I said, Well, my brother, please tell me this. Is it the Scripture or the Savior who does the saving? Well he he did some mental gymnastics and used uh some words uh you know to tie his thought together and and at the end of the day I still I I said to him, Sir, listen And then, you know, in this particular group of peoples, the women are not allowed to speak in the assembly. They don't speak, they're not, you come in quietly, you leave quietly, you don't say a word. Now we weren't in the assembly, we were in his house. And I was sitting there and she had made tea for us and had the little biscuits out and we were sitting there eating and and and and I think all of that pent-up frustration of not speaking in the assembly came out in the living room Because boy, she did some blasting and tried to convince me that I was an unconverted man because I had never claimed a text or scripture. When I realized I couldn't get nowhere, I just simply said, well, you're coming a little too late at me with this For the reality is I was there when God saved me. And I know the difference he's made. And the truth of the matter is, it's Jesus who saves. It's in Christ Jesus we obtain salvation. And I'll say to you, friend, if you're here or listening and you're trying to get salvation in any other, you might be trying to get it through being good. And that's why you're here. I'm doing my duty. I'm in church. Or it may be that you're trying to give to the poor and you care for the needy and you do all these nice and wonderful things that I'm for and that you should do, but not one of those things will get you into heaven. The only thing that will save you is the Lord Jesus Christ. He died for your sin. He paid the sin death. He was buried. He rose again. He gives eternal life to whosoever receives him. And it's on the receiving end that salvation comes. If you don't receive him, friend, there's only one other option, only one other alternative. That's to reject him. And to reject him is to find your place eternally lost. And to find your place in that place called hell. Friend, Jesus saves. And it's so important that you remember that. It's not the church that saves, it's not our movement that saves, it's not a person's uh uh uh uh doings, whether they be religious or not, lighting candles, praying prayers, shedding tears, getting in baptismal pools, it's Jesus Christ alone. And everybody who's saved has pillowed their head on the person and work of Jesus Christ. I've told you, but I'll tell you again because I think people struggle. I struggled with this thing. I had men tell me, if you can't remember what you you prayed, you're not saved. And boy, it put me in a tailspin spiritually. I couldn't remember. I tried hard. I said, Lord, do a miracle and make me remember. And help me remember, but I could not remember the words I said when I bowed my head to pray. And I shared that with someone, and that brother very wisely said, Son, listen, it is not what you said, but it's to whom you spoke. that makes the difference. It's not what you say. It's not what I say. It's listen, it's the Lord we're looking to. When you come to cross, it's not the matter and get ready to leave this world. You're going to find cold comfort in the fact, well, I prayed the sinner's prayer. That's like hanging on to a lucky charm. You're going to take cold comfort in saying, well, I, you know, I I was a member of Marinatha Baptist Church. Away with that. Away with that. The reality is, am I resting in what Christ did for me? And if I'm resting in what Christ did for me, my soul's in good hands, for the Savior paid the price in full. Jesus paid it all. It's all to him I owe. Jesus saves. Let me quickly come to a close. I want you to notice number four that God is faithful. He starts in verse 11, and I found this interesting in 2 Timothy 2. This faithful saying, some believe this was an early song of the New Testament believers. That they actually would sing this. It is the faithful saying, If we be dead with him, we shall also live with him. If we suffer, we shall also reign with him. If we deny him, he also will deny us. If we believe not, yet he abideth faithful, he cannot deny himself. And that they would sing it as a reminder. But what's he talking about? God is faithful. I want you to notice this saying, this saying revolves around a stated fact. This is a true statement, this is a fact. You can't change this. And what he's talking about, I believe, if you'll study that out, we don't have time this morning, but if you'll study that out, you'll find out he's talking about the judgment seat of Christ, coming judgment. If we die, we live. If we suffer, we'll reign. He's talking about that day when we'll give an account and God will reward accordingly. He's talking about that coming time. And the Bible describes it in 1 Corinthians 3. And the Bible says that every man's work will be tried by the fire to see what sort it is. So then every one of us must give account of himself to God. Every one of us will have to account to God. Every one of us must give an account. We must account for who and what we've done with the Lord Jesus Christ as believers. This is not a place. This is not a place of judgment for sin. Sin was judged on the cross. This will be a place of judgment for the believer. And what we've done after we got saved, and how we've stewarded the life God entrusted us. And I want you to see that He's saying God's faithful now. God is faithful. You may forget. You may forget. Others may forget. It may not be recognized. It may not be rewarded, it may not be appreciated. All that you do for Christ, it may not even be honored, but listen, he is faithful. He does not forget. And then you'll notice not just the saying, but notice who's steadfast. He says, He abideth faithful. The fickle ways of man does not alter the faithful character of God. And we ought to take great comfort in that. God's not moody. He don't like you today and hate you tomorrow. First old farm I worked at we had a we had a dog, uh one of those Australian Yeah, dogs and she lay she she would stay in the barn and and she would sleep there in the parlor, the milk in parlor, 'cause the heat was on in the in the winter and it was the best place in the barn. And she would stay in there, and you could tell her to go get the cows and she'd go round them up and bring them to the barn. But she was moody. She was moody. I started to tell you what the old farmer told me, but all the women would be mad at me, so I'm not going to tell you. But she was moody. You might go in, and he told me, he said, when you work here, he said, just don't mess with her. I you know, I like to I'd I'd like to pet her and she'd come up wanting to be petted sometimes. But he said, I I want you I'm gonna tell you why. He said, watch this. Some mornings you could reach down and and scratch your ears and she'd just roll over and take it. She loved it. Other morning she'd take your arm off. She'd bite him, the owner. And and it just depended on her mood, and you couldn't tell one way or the other. And she had a little stubbed tail, so you couldn't tell Brother Lee if it was shaken or not. So whether she's going to bite you today or not bite you today, you just never knew. And she was moody. And it didn't matter she'd bite you on a rainy day as much as she would a sunny day. You just couldn't figure her out. And I think some people look at God as if He's he's capricious like that, that he's tending to change and that he moves with the swing of the seasons. His moods are are changed by the length of days He 's the ancient of days. He does not change. He is the Lord. He is faithful. And if God ever makes a promise, he keeps it. I was studying about Lot recently, and this impressed me as I read about Lot: God would not destroy Sodom and Gomorra until he got him out of there. Now why? We don't have rec we know Abraham prayed and he said, Now Lord, if there's ten righteous down there, please don't destroy it. But I believe somewhere between praying for the ten righteous, Abraham brought up Lot's name and said, Now, Lord, would you get him at least out of there and spare that city and don't destroy it till he's out? And God said, I can't touch. Remember what the angel said? I can't touch this city. Lot lingered. He wanted to stay there, which I don't get, but he He wanted his his heart was so ingrained and rooted in Sodom, he lingered and they had to grab him by the hand and pull him out of the city. They said, We can't do nothing to this city until you're out. You know why? God had made a promise. And God stands by his promise. And whether man is successful or a failure, it doesn't matter what man does. God has kept his word. That's why we don't worry about losing our salvation. Because the Bible says, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my Father's hands. Listen, the good promise of God is that I'm his eternally. It don't depend on my performance. It's all resting on the promise of God's word. Oh, beloved God is faithful. Remember that. We tend to forget things that are of utmost importance. And the Bible's written them down, the Spirit of God's been given, and He says, please remember. You've got to remember this. Remember that Jesus lives. Remember that the Bible's unstoppable. Remember that Jesus saves and remember God is faithful. Now I don't know what you need this morning or where you're at spiritually, but it may be you need to remember some things. It may need you need you need to remember that he's alive. Your situation ain't beyond his help. Your circumstances aren't bigger than your living Savior who conquered death, hell, and the grave. Might need to remember that. You might need to remember in a world that's dark and dying that there's a God in heaven who's alive and well. You might be lost here this morning. Need to remember. Jesus saves. Maybe you know that. Maybe you know that you've been told that, but you've never received that truth. Maybe you need to remember the Bible's unstoppable. Perhaps the critics and the criticizers have got to you. And you've just gotten a little downhearted about the turn of events. And you know, I don't believe America's in a great revival. I hear that word being used so poorly. I don't believe we're in a time of great awakening. We're in a time of spiritual stirrings, and listen, when God stirs, the devil stirs. But here's what I do know: this Bible's unstoppable. It's still true. Still works. You can still trust it. You can build your home on it. You can rest your life on it. You can stake eternity on thus saith the Lord. And you need to remember. It may be some weary old Christian here this morning say, Preacher, man, I've fought some battles this week. Well, God is faithful. You might have failed. He hasn't. And he's not going to start. God is faithful. Let's stand together, please, Brother Dow, if you'll come. Father