I'm grateful that the Lord again knows how to put everything together. And I want you to take your Bibles, please, and go to Nehemiah chapter number four. Nehemiah chapter number four, and I'm going to begin reading in the first of the chapter, verse number one. And I want you to think with me about the battle that we're in. This is a, you know, in the Old Testament, a lot of spiritual truth is explained in a physical fashion. And so there's a literal battle that's described here, or or the possibility, I guess, of a battle in Nehemiah chapter number four. And we see here that there's a victory that comes. And I want you to see it with me, please. Nehemiah chapter number 4, verse number 1. But it came to pass that when Sanbalat heard that we builded the wall, he was wroth and took great indignation and mocked the Jews. And he spake before his brethren and the army of Samaria and said, What do these feeble Jews? Will they fortify themselves? Will they sacrifice? Will they make an end in a day? Will they revive the stones out of the heaps of the rubbish which are burned? Now Tobiah the Ammonite was by him, and he said, Even that which they build, if a fox go up, he shall even break down their stone wall. Now this is Nehemiah speaking, hear, O our God, for we are despised, and turn their reproach upon their own head, and give them for a prey in the land of captivity. And cover not their iniquity, and let not their sin be blotted out from before thee, for they have provoked thee to anger before the builders. So built we the wall, and the wall was joined together under the half thereof, for the people had a mind to work. But it came to pass that when Sanbalad and Tobiah, and the Arabians, and the Ammonites and the Ashdodites, heard that the walls of Jerusalem were made up, and that the breaches began to be stopped. Then they were very wroth, and conspired all of them together to come and to fight against Jerusalem and to hinder it. Nevertheless, we made our prayer unto our God and set a watch against them day and night because of them Judah said, The strength of the bears of burdens is decayed, and there is much rubbish, so that we are not able to build the wall. And our adversary said that they shall not know, neither see, till we come in the midst among them and slay them and cause the work to cease. It came to pass that when the Jews which dwelt by them came, they said unto us ten times, from all places whence you shall return unto this, they will be upon you. Therefore, I sat in the lower places behind the wall, and on the higher places I even set the people after their families with their swords, their spears, and their bows. And I looked and rose up and said unto the nobles and to the rulers and to the rest of the people, be not ye afraid of them. Remember the Lord, which is great and terrible, and fight for your brethren, your sons, and your daughters, your wives, and your houses. And it came to pass when our enemies heard that it was known unto us, and God had brought their counsel to naught, that we returned all of us to the wall, every one unto his work. I'm going to stop reading there, and there's a word I want to magnify as we study this first part of the chapter. In verse number 9, the Bible says, nevertheless. Now remember, uh Nehemiah has come back to the land here, and he has been commissioned and charged by the Lord to rebuild the wall. And as they begin this process of rebuilding, they face real opposition. Know this: God is always advancing, but the devil is always opposing. In your life and in mine, God's going forward. He doesn't move in a backward direction. He's always moving forward spiritually. He's always moving forward in our lives individually. And he's leading us along in a forward motion. And he's advancing. He's always advancing. But know this the devil is always opposing. For every step forward, the enemy's right there. There's always advancing, and yet there's always opposing, but can I write one big word over top of that, nevertheless? Nevertheless, you see, the enemy wanted to stop this. In fact, he said he wanted to hinder the building of this wall. But nevertheless Nevertheless, the work went on. You see, if God intends to move forward, not even the forces of hell can stop that progress. We must remember this evening that we serve a God who is almighty, that He is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. And every once in a while that word nevertheless needs to get great big in your heart and mind And we need to be reminded that nevertheless the opposition's real, the obstacles are very visible and present, but nevertheless, God still can. I appreciate that reminder this evening, Brother Lee. I I think of Lester Roloff and his ministry, and certainly that ministry was one that was advancing yet always opposed. But nevertheless. Nevertheless, God did uh a work and God used our brother and and many y you know I was thinking the other day I I don't know how many men are in the ministry serving the Lord because of roll off homes There I know I know at least a dozen or more personally that are preachers of the Word of God, and they spent time there in that men's home, and yet God did something in their heart. And again, you can write over all the top of that, nevertheless. Now, here in the Nehemiah chapter 4, we get a description. Of a spiritual conflict in physical terms. I'm going to pray and we'll study. Father, would you please open our heart to the word? And open the word to our hearts. Would you do for us what we cannot do for ourselves, O Father? Undertake and intervene as only you can. Help us now, please. Be our teacher. And I pray, Father, that the Spirit of God would make the things real that need to be made real in our hearts. And we'll thank you for what you do, for we're looking to thee now in Jesus' mighty name. And God's people said. Amen. Well, as you read here in this chapter, I want you to see several things here this evening. Number one, I want you to see the escalating opposition. The escalating opposition. Now, up to this point, we read in chapter 3, and uh I was thinking on this chapter I believe it was last evening. As you read through chapter number three, everybody was doing their work And he goes through the whole chapter there, starting with Elisha, the high priest, and and his brethren and the priests as they built the sheep gate and working your way all the way around the city. Every person, every family, from rulers to priest to just the common individual, everybody was doing their part. And I thought, isn't that a beautiful thing to see? When God's people, and we read it there in chapter number four, that they accomplished so much because they had a mind to work. How many of you know that the work of the Lord is a collaborative effort? It's everybody doing their part. There's a responsibility that is entrusted to all of God's people. And so As each one of us are faithful in fulfilling our role, the work of God is accomplished. And that's what happened here in chapter number three. But we come right into chapter number four, and here is the devil. Now I'm not saying Sandballot is the devil, but he sure was acting like him. And so know this that any time God's people are doing what they're supposed to do, the devil's just around the corner. There's going to be an opposition. There's going to be some warfare. But I want you to notice the escalating opposition, how this thing just kept rising. In in the first part of this, notice here in verse number one It says that Sanbalit was wroth. You want to note that he was wroth. And took great indignation, and he mocked the Jews. I want you to see that the enemy's tactic is ridicule. The devil likes to ridicule God's people. He likes to shame them into thinking it's impossible to do what God's told you to do I find it interesting here that Tobiah the Ammonite said that if a fox go up, he shall even break down their stone wall. He was ridiculing their work. He said you're building such a flimsy wall that a little old fox jump on that thing, it'll fall down. It's ridicule. And by the way, how many of you know there's nothing new under the sun? The devil is a great ridiculer of God's people. And he likes them all. What's the work? I think about that little boy, and he's standing there with five loaves and just a few fish. And and the disciples look at it and they're like, what 's that among so many? I mean, that's not much, but it's all he had. And by the way, it was all God needed. It was all that he wanted. And listen, friend, a lot of times you and I stand there with our little five loaves and few fish, and we're saying, Lord, what's this among so many? And the Lord said, That's just all I want. When Moses got ready to go down to Egypt, the Lord said, Moses, what is in thine hand? Moses said, A rod. It wasn't a spectacular rod, it probably wasn't a decorative rod. It was just a simple old rod. But listen It was the rod that would demonstrate the mighty power of God. He said, Moses, just throw that down and let me show you what I can do. And when you take what's in your hand and put it in God's hands, he can do the miracle. That's what happened. But you know what the devil's gonna do? He's gonna ridicule you. I'm sure the devil said to Moses, What are you gonna do with that rod? Well, I reckon time it was over, he realized what God was going to do with that rod through Moses. I imagine the devil might have whispered in that little boy's ear, Keep that lunch to yourself. You can't feed five thousand people with that little lunch. Well, you put that little lunch in the Lord's hands and he can feed 10,000 or 20,000. There's no limit to what God can do with the little that we commit to Him. But the devil's going to be present in ridicule. And so we see them here ridiculing the saints. And then, but notice their response in verse 4. He says this, Nehemiah says, Hear, O our God, for we are despised. You know, the best way to respond to ridicule is to go to God with it. I mean, just go to the Lord and and begin to pray. And that's what Nehemiah did, and he prays here, and he prays that they'll The Lord will turn their reproach on their own head. In other words, Lord, the shame and the ridicule they're putting on us, you put it back on them And by the way, without a shot fired, a sword lifted, or an arrow shot, the old devil got his mouth shut right here in Nehemiah chapter 4 by God. And listen, doesn't the Lord have a way of turning the stones that are rolled in your direction back on the devil's own head? But they responded in prayer, and you'll find that that's a consistent response all through this chapter. Nehemiah prays. When he don't know what to do, he prays. When the devil opposes, he prays. When there's opposition, he prays. I'm here to tell you, my friend, it's always right just to pray. Then you'll notice the opposition after their response, it rises. It gets a little hotter. Verse 7. You'll notice there's Sandbalad again, Tobiah, the Arabians, the Ammonites, now the Ashdodites. You see, more of them get involved. And it says they were very wroth. Notice they were wroth in the beginning, now they're very wroth. They're really upset. They're really ticked off. This thing's going forward. We've been making fun of them and making fun of them 's not stopping them. And so they this opposition begins to arise. In verse 8, and conspired all of them together to come and to fight against Jerusalem and to hinder it. Notice this, the opposition united against the work of the Lord. You can tell a lot about somebody by who's against them. If you're going in the right direction, there's going to be some things against you. Hey, doesn't the Bible warn us to beware if all men speak well? Doesn't the Bible remind us that that as the people of God there's going to be an an opposition. And here they are. They unite together and they they said we're going to fight against Jerusalem. And I want you to see those last Three words of verse eight. Here's the whole purpose of opposition, and that is to hinder it. The devil don't want you to grow. The devil don't want you to be an advancing Christian. How many Christians start out with great promise and then Fail, fall away, fizzle out, and you think, what a shame I don't know about you, but I I like I like to shoot fireworks and I like to see them. The louder, the bigger, the better. I'll never forget we weren't quite used to that when we moved here. And man, I'll tell you, around here at 4th of July and New Year's, it's like World War III. They not only shoot off fireworks, they shoot off shotguns and rifles and cannons and it seems like everything under the sun, I'll never forget that first fourth of July. We were like, man, who's invaded Maryland? It sounded like we had a war going on around here on the 4th of July as soon as it got dark. But isn't it disappointing? To have one of these things, you read it, maybe you've never fired them off, but you read the box and it tells you in glowing terms what it's going to do, and you light it and it I mean it starts a flame, and you think, oh boy, this is going to be something, and then it just psh and it's done. And you think, what was that? A lot of Christians have great promise. And the truth of the matter is there's great potential in that individual if they would surrender their life to the Lord, but I'll tell you what happens. The devil begins to oppose and the next thing you know they just fizzle out spiritually. I don't know about you, but I don't want to be a fizzled out Christian. I want the help of the Lord. Listen, and my flesh is the same as your flesh, and without the help of the Lord, that's exactly what will happen. But I want you to know something. God's people can continue to advance If you understand that all the devil's trying to do is to hinder you, he's trying to oppose. Have you ever noticed the things that happen on Sunday that don't happen any other day? Have you ever noticed the things that come against you on the Lord's day that doesn't come against you any other day? I mean the things that would hinder you and keep you From being in the house of God where you need to be, it seems like they just sort of rare up on the Lord's day Years ago when we were up north, I I remember a winter that it snowed the whole winter, every Sunday and every Wednesday. And I'm not talking about just a little flurry. I'm not even talking about what would be deemed a winter storm around here. I'm talking about it would come a foot, it would be 16 inches, 18 inches, every Wednesday, every Sunday, every Wednesday, every Sunday. I told my wife, I said, Do you see a pattern in this? I mean this is a weird winter. It's every time we get ready to go to church, there's two feet of snow, fresh snow on the ground, and you're trying to figure out how and so you say, What'd you do? You know what we did that winter? We went to church on Thursday and on Saturday You say, what are you going to do? Well, listen, what are you going to do when there's three feet of snow on the ground? And so you've got to do something, and I'll tell you what, God's people need to be obedient to assemble. And so you deal with the opposition, but here's what I want you to see: the devil just wants to hinder. I I don't know what he's doing in your life, but here's what I do know he's doing, he's hindering. He doesn't want you to read your Bible. He doesn't want you to pray. He doesn't want you to witness. He doesn't want you to live holy. He doesn't want you to walk Gots He doesn't want you to serve the Lord. He doesn't want you to be faithful to church. He doesn't want you to be a good Christian. He wants to hinder you. Know this. The escalating opposition is nothing new. But number two, I want you to see the increasing intimidation. Starting in verse 9. Nevertheless, we made our prayer unto our God and set a watch against them day and night because of them. Now, you say, what did Nehemiah do when the opposition escalated? He prayed again. He prayed again. Could I just say to some of you, pray again? It may be you just need to get in your prayer closet again. It may just need to be that you need to clear your prayer place out. And just go to God again and say, now Lord, we need your help. This opposition's getting stronger. This intimidation is coming. Lord, would you please help? And that's what Nehemiah did. He prayed And I like this, it says in verse number 10, Judah said, The strength of the bears of the burdens is decayed, and there is much rubbish, so that we are not able to build the wall. Not only do I want you to see their response in all of this, but I want you to see the rubbish they had to deal with. You know what you can read into that? We're tired. We're tired. We're trying to rebuild the walls, but we're tired. We're over here picking up rocks and trying to to to make the walls, but there's so much more rubbish it seems like the more we uh the more we build and the further we go, the more rubbish that we find. We're tired. I'm gonna tell you something. The devil's an opportunist He knows when you're weary. He knows just exactly when to hit He knows exactly what to do. He knows when your body's tired. He knows when your brain is tired. He knows when all of the opposition has got you worn down. And that is exactly when he ups the ante and begins to intimidate the people of God. You know, sometimes the most spiritual thing you can do is go to bed and go to sleep I'm amazed at how awful things look when I'm wore out. And I go to bed and have a good night's sleep, and I get up the next morning, I'm like, nothing really changed, but it's not as bad as I thought. You see, the devil know he again he knows what he's doing, the rubbish. And by the way, the tactic of the enemy is to wear the saints out. Remember in Daniel 7, verse 25, we're looking at last day's events, and Daniel made this statement. About the man of sin that he shall wear out the saints of the Most High. He'll wear them out. That's exactly what the enemy's doing. He's trying to wear out the saints. And then notice in verse 11 and 12 what happens. And our adversaries said, you might want to highlight that because know this, the adversaries have a lot to say. Our adversary said, they shall not know, neither see, till we come in the midst among them and slave them and cause the work to cease. Boy, they're talking big. You know what? They're not even going to see us. We're going to sneak in and get them. They're not even going to know what's going on. We're going to stop the work. This this this ambitious desire that Nehemiah has to build the wall, we're going to stop it in a moment of time. And look at the next verse. The Bible says in verse 12, and it came to pass that when the Jews which dwelt by them came, now I take that to mean these are not people that are involved in building the wall These are peripheral people. They're people that dwelt by them. They're hanging around the edges. They're sort of the half-in and half-out crowd. I don't know how to say this other than just say it. Watch out for half-in, half-out Christians. Watch out for that crowd that just dwells by them. I'm talking about those that just sort of casually live their Christian life and are not committed to the Lord. You watch out for them because they're listening more keenly to the devil than they ought to. You'll notice what they did. It says, they said unto us ten times. I don't think that's an exaggeration. I think it's a demonstration of the repetition of the devil's lie. The devil saying, I'm going to say it so much that you start believing it. I'm going to repeat it. By the way, isn't that the world we're living in? All the lies of the devil are s are spoken and pro and broadcast and promoted and advertised over and over and over to the point that we got people believing that they were born a man but intended to be a woman. You know why they're listening all these lies of the devil I'm saying that the devil is a master at repetition. Here he is repeating ten times. They keep saying, oh, this is what the adversary said. By the way, can I just put this in? The reality is you've got something better than what the devil's saying. You've got what God's already said And you need to focus on what the Bible says more than what the enemy says. And so the repetition went on. And once again, here they are. And they're intimidated. You'll notice what they said from all places, which ye shall return unto us, they will be upon you. There's no escaping. You know what the devil does? He wants you to think there's no hope. That's what he wants. He wants you to think there's no hope. You know something as I think about the task set before us as a church The devil wants to whisper in your ear, there's no hope unless you change your message. There's no hope unless you alter the the uh a lot of things that are fundamental and critical to to our very existence. There's no hope. I've got news for you. As long as God is God, there's hope. Didn't look too bright for them three boys thrown in the fiery furnace. That is, until you factor in the fourth man in the fire. It didn't look too good for the Daniel when he was thrown into the lion's den because hungry lions eat whatever comes their way. But listen, you you you've got to factor in the God in heaven who made those lions And it don't look too good in our society as we get further from the truth and become a nation of peoples who hate God. But you got you you you can't rule the thing out until you factor in the fact that there's a God in heaven who can take a heart of stone and make it a heart of flesh. There's a God who saves dead sinners and raises them up and makes new creatures out of them. Some or you were going a hopeless path till God found you Turns you around. People would have said about you, there's no hope for him. Mark, I didn't know you before you got saved, but I'm sure then people said that man will never be saved. But now he is. That's the work of God, isn't it? That's the power of God. And that's true for everybody who's saved. Whether that was ever said about you or not, the reality is that when you put God into the picture All the impossibilities melt away because God is able. That's why we pray for revival. I had somebody say to me, you know we're wasting our time praying for revival. I said, go talk that foolishness to somebody else. Because I believe God can. I don't know what he's going to do, but I know he can I know the God of heaven can make dead people live, and the God of heaven, look, he raised Jesus from the dead, my friend, on the third and glorious morning. He can make a dead church live. Had a preacher tell me one time, oh, how encouraging preachers can be. He said, You know, it's easier to give birth to a new church than it is to raise a dead one. I said that may be the case, sir, but my God specializes in raising dead things. He's able to raise dead things. God God could listen, He He can do this and and we pray and we say, Oh God Look, my friend, don't let the circumstances scare you. Here the devil's trying to say, there's no way you'll build this wall. You're tired, the people are complaining about the rubbish. And the enemy's lurking on every corner. And by the way, the numbers of the enemy were increasing day by day. And more and more are getting involved. And they're saying, hey, there's no way you're going to make it There's no hope. I I wish we could rapidly go to the end of the chapter. We'll not do that for sake of time, but I've got news for you. The wall got built The gates got installed, the city got fortified, and the God of heaven accomplished exactly what he said he'll do. And my friend, if you and I'll just hang on and be faithful and trust the Lord, he will accomplish what he set out to do in our lives. So we see the increasing intimidation. And again, nothing new. The devil still wants to intimidate God's children. I wanna I want to look at this and this really was the message. This I've given you is the introduction, but I know your patients are probably Closer to thin than not at this time of evening. So I'll quickly give you the message. I want you to see the concluding confrontation. Verse number 13, the Bible says, Therefore set I in the lower places behind the wall, and on the higher places I even set the people after their families with their swords, their spears, and their bows. I want you to notice they were ready for battle. I believe Mr. Spurgeon got the name of his article, The Sword and the Trowel. He used to publish this out of this chapter. Because Nehemiah says we held a sword in one hand and we worked with the other. They had a sword in one hand and a trial in the other. You know what? They were ready to do battle. They were ready. And listen, God wants you to be ready. Part of the purpose of the battle is to keep the soldiers on ready. The Lord don't want you asleep. He doesn't want you and I just dozing through our Christian life. When you read Ephesians chapter 6 and verse number 10, the Bible says, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. I believe you go on down a couple of verses and he tells you to put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand. What's he saying? Suit up for battle. Suit up for battle. Like old Brother Roloff's song. This is a battlefield, brother, not a recreation room. It is a battlefield. We're living in a battlefield. We're in the trenches, so to speak. And because we're in a battle, we as soldiers need to be ready for the battle. And sometimes it takes the noise of conflict to move us away from that place of complacency. We need to be spurred on to be ready, to put our armor on, to get suited up, get ready for the battle. And so we see them on the ready. But then I want you to notice we see them remembering. In verse 14, here's what Nehemiah said. He said, I looked and rose up and said unto the nobles, to the rulers, to the rest of the people, Be not ye afraid of them. Remember the Lord. Which is great and terrible, and fight for your brethren, your sons and your daughters, your wives, and your houses. He says, Remember the Lord. Remember, you're not in this thing alone. Remember, you're not fighting this fight by yourself. You need to remember that when all hell opposes you, all of heaven stands beside you. You need to remember that the Lord, look what he says there. I love this description, who is great or which is great and terrible. Ask Pharaoh what kind of enemy the Lord is to his enemies. Ask the man who said, you know, who is this God? Well, he made a mistake when he started ridiculing the God of heaven. He's about to find out who the Lord is. And I'll tell you, when the thing was said and done, there wasn't a soldier standing in Pharaoh's army. God had put them all out of business by his mighty power, and his little children didn't have to raise a sword or fling a stone. God gave the victory. You need to remember the Lord. If I could just emphasize something for a moment, you as a dear brother, sister in Christ, you need to remember the Lord. Oh, you say, but the opposition is it, and we start describing it. Somebody said if David had taken his time to focus on the giant, he would have never gone to battle. Man, look how big he is. You ever scare yourself of something? Just talk yourself right out of it. I mean you're looking at it and you're thinking how how bad it is, how difficult it is, and next thing you know you convince yourself, mm-mm, I'm not doing that And David could have stood there and talked about how big Goliath was and how powerful he was and how strong he was and how impressive he was. But he said nothing of that nature. In fact, all as somebody said David didn't see how big the giant was. He he saw a target that it was impossible to miss. And you and I need to realize that, oh yes, the enemy's real. The battle is is is fierce at times, but we have a great and terrible God Who's able to overcome and know this church? This isn't just uh mere hyping. This is the truth of the Word of God, that our God is all-powerful. Need to remember the Lord. It's the battle cry of God's people. It's the battle cry of God's little children. Remember the Lord Nehemiah couldn't say, Look, remember how sharp your swords are, remember how many there are of us, or remember how well skilled we are in battle. None of that was true. But he could say, remember the Lord. He reached back into the antiquity and said, Remember the Lord, who said, let there be light. And remember the God who brought us out of Egypt's bondage. Remember the God who gave birth to a great nation from an impossible situation. Remember the mighty acts of God and the terrible nature of the Lord when he turns to do battle. You know something? I think we live in a world that doesn't believe God's going to settle the score. But we need to remember he's going to. This world rages and hates God and and men mock him and and and and criticize and go on about the Lord and listen, the day is going to come that the the enemy's so going to deceive people that they will gather together to do battle against the God of heaven. They're not going to deny that he exists. They're going to take up arms to extinguish him. Such will be the nature of man. Such will be the heart of man. Such is the heart of man. I'm telling you, my friend, a lost man who doesn't know God has a heart that would love to annihilate God if he could. And man will think that somehow he'll pull God from the heavens and off his throne. And yet I want to remind you that all the Lord's going to do is speak. And his enemies will all perish. Oh, that's the terribleness of our God. They're going to cry out on that day. Oh, mountains cover us, oh, rocks fall on us. They want to hide from that terrible wrath of the Lamb. And I've got news for you, there'll be nowhere to hide then. But you need to remember the Lord. You need to remember that the Lord who's mighty in battle is the Lord who is faithful to his people. The Lord who i is great and terrible to the enemy is a great comfort to those who are his followers. Need to remember the Lord. Then I want you to see this. I want you to see the results in verse 15. And it came to pass, this is almost like the the uh sort of a conclusion you weren't expecting in a sense. There's no clashing, there's no battle, there's no swords pulled, there's no fight, it just says And it came to pass when our enemies heard that it was known unto us, and God had brought their counsel to naught, that we returned all of us to the wall, every one to his work. It's like the devil just tucked his tail between his legs and went home. And he said, I can't beat him, I can't beat him, so I'm gonna let him be for now. He he comes back. But he said, I'm going to let them be for now. And they went on working and they went on advancing. And it won't be long, you'll read, and they finished the wall. You know why? God came to their rescue. God came to their rescue. The battle cry that went up, oh, remember the Lord, brought great encouragement to the heart of his people, and they just kept on doing what God had told them to do. And in time, God gave the victory. So what do I learn from this? I learned, number one, that battles are very real. Spiritual battles are very real. You've probably had them this week. You might have had them today. Spiritual battles are very real battles. You see, there was never really any battle by the common definition, but there was a battle going on here. These people wanted to quit. They'd had enough. I mean the rubbish is great, the opposition is intimidating, and they're saying, I I don't know that we can go on. And that was a battle. By the way, how many of you know that the greatest battle you fight takes place right here? That's where the war is. Those those fiery darts at the enemy shoot our way. And and and they're not things that you feel in your back or your side or your leg or Whatever, they're the fiery darts that enter your mind that are the lies of the devil that sound so believable. That's where the battle is. The battle's real But I also want to remind you that not only is the battle real, but there are blessings that come from the battle. You know, up until this point, they're just working. It's almost like oblivious to the fact they're in danger. Nobody's standing with a sword or spear. Nobody's watching as they work. They're just working. Perhaps they they they they don't really think that this thing is as serious as it is. And after this, do you notice if you read on in the chapter that they continued to work, but they watched as well? They worked with the sword in hand, they worked uh with a spear, they worked with a guard, there were watches, and and then they organized to where Nehemiah said, When you hear the sound of the trumpet, get to that part of the wall, because it means the enemy. You know what it made them stronger, it made them better. And please know this, that that battle that you think is going to destroy you, if you'll go to God with it and lean on the Lord through it, he'll make you a better Christian because of it And he'll and listen, there'll be blessings and you'll thank God for it somewhere. Here they are, here they are, blessings that come their way. But I want you to hear this, please. Because of the Lord, because of the Lord, the work went on. Because of the Lord. Yes, God is always advancing. Yes, the devil is always opposing. But my friend, know this: one day he will forever be defeated. Remember the Lord. If I could just leave you with one thought, remember the Lord. When that battle rages, remember the Lord. When that opposition comes, remember the Lord. When that struggle is felt, remember the Lord When the impossibility is viewed, remember the Lord. When all of hell seems to raise its ugly head and hiss its threats, remember the Lord. Remember, the Lord's already fought this battle and won. Remember on bloody Calvary when Jesus died, he crushed the old serpent's head, he conquered death, hell, and the grave, he has the keys. to it all, my friend, remember the Lord. Remember you're not serving a victim, you're serving a victor. Remember that you're not fighting for victory, you're fighting from victory, for the Lord is our victory. We're more than conquerors through him that loved us. Remember the Lord. I I love history and I was reading recently about a battle. That took place on March 5, 1836. 200 men had been under siege for 13 days and held their ground. But on that fateful morning, after 90 minutes of battle, all 200 are dead, and by day's end their bodies are burned. Little did the enemy of these men know this would give a battle cry to a people that would soon defeat them. Wouldn't be that much longer, actually, on April 21st, 1836, Santa Ana would be captured. And his troops would be defeated. And the cry that would rally before this great battle would be: remember the Alamo, remember the Alamo. And it fueled the fire of those fighting men to move forward and set the, at that time, that province of Texas free and make it a republic. And my friend, if if a mere incident in history Can so charge the heart of men to fight impossible odds and win, surely the reality that the God of heaven is our King. And surely the i if if remember the Alamo could charge a bunch of men to go to forward to victory, surely remember the Lord should charge some saints to go on with God and be faithful. Oh, there might be a skirmish or two lost, but we know who wins the war. We know how this thing's going to wind up. And listen, we are on the winning side. I can still see old Curtis Hudson standing there in Georgia dying of cancer and wood in just a few days. But he would sing that song, I'm on the winning side. I'm on the winning side. And he was. You say, but he died. He just went to be with the Lord. And I've got news for you, dear brother, sister, you are on the winning side. Whether you die or go in the rapture, it does not matter. At the end of the day, you need to remember the Lord. When you look around you at our culture and see it falling apart at the seams, remember the Lord. When you see it difficult to reach a generation that had been programmed to disbelieve God and His Word, remember the Lord. When you think it's going to be impossible for me to reach those children, you just remember the Lord. When you think it's going to be impossible to reach this generation, just remember the Lord. When you as a church look around and say, how are we going to reach our community? Well, you start by remembering the Lord. He is the one who is able. Remember the Lord. Thank God that's the battle cry of the saints. We remember the Lord. Nehemiah stood and said, folks, listen, remember the Lord. Fight for your brethren. Fight for your sons, your daughters. Fight for your wives and your houses. There's a cause, my friend. There is a cause. But it starts by remembering the Lord. Can I urge you tonight, dear brother or sister, remember the Lord Oh, the battle might have been tough, and you might be sitting here feeling whipped. Remember the Lord. Remember the Lord. The day is coming, and I believe it's soon at hand. When I'll not fight another battle. Spiritually, I'll not face another enemy. I'll be in the presence of the Lord. And we'll be on our faces round the throne, worshiping the God who saved us, and for all of eternity, so shall we ever be. Oh, listen, my friend, remember the Lord. Let's stand together.