I'm glad he knows, amen. I want you to your Bibles, please, to Luke thirteen. The Gospel of Luke, chapter number 13. And I'm going to read the first five verses in your hearing. And when you find your place in Luke chapter 13, I'll invite you to stand with me, please. And I'll read these verses aloud. You follow along silently, please. Luke chapter number 13, and beginning in verse number one, the Bible reads in this fashion. There were present at that season some that told him of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galileans were sinners above all the Galileans, because they suffered such things? I tell you, nay. But except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Or those eighteen upon whom the tower in Siloam fell, and slew them. Think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem? I tell you, nay. But except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. I want to preach on that little word that is stated two times in the text, and that is the word repent. Heavenly Father, we bow in Jesus' name and thank you for the privilege to pray. Now, Lord, we come to this book knowing that it's spiritually discerned. Lord, we're asking that you would be our teacher. Would you speak to us, Lord? You know the need of every heart. Make this message, Lord, very personal for each. And minister powerfully among us. And Lord, for what you do, we'll be careful to bow our heads and give you the glory. We're thankful, Lord, that you do know. Thank you for that sweet reminder. Thank you for these songs we've sung about the blood this morning. How grateful we are that the blood of Christ was shed to put our sin away. We praise your name for that precious fountain. Lord, we pray for these few moments we have together. Please hide me behind the cross. Help me to lift up Jesus. Give us ears to hear and hearts to obey and have your will. We'll give you the glory, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. You can be seated. Thank you for standing. I'm going to get to the text in just a moment, but I want to read a few verses that have to do with this thing called repent or repentance. I'll remind you this morning that the gospel cannot be clearly preached without preaching or declaring repent. The Bible says in Matthew chapter 9, 13, verse number 13, that it's what Jesus came to do. He came to call men. To repentance. He said, I am not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. In Luke chapter 24 and verse number 47 , we read the Great Commission. And you know, we often read the Great Commission as stated in Mark 16, 15, go you into all the world and preach the gospel. To every creature. But in Luke 24, 47, the Great Commission says this: that repentance and remission of sin should be preached in his name. Among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. We go further into the New Testament and come to the book of Acts And in Acts chapter 17 and verse number 30, it is a command. The Bible says that God commandeth all men everywhere to repent. See, sometimes we relegate repentance to Jesus Day, or John the Baptist Day, or the Apostle Paul's Day. But the Bible makes it for every day, makes it for every man. He calls all men everywhere to repent. Then Acts chapter twenty verse number twenty one. Here is what I would call the complete gospel The Bible says, this is what Paul did, as he went from house to house preaching privately and publicly. He said, here's what he did, testifying both to the Jews and also to the Greeks. Repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. Then we come to 2 Peter chapter 3 and verse number 9. And it makes this statement. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. But is long-suffering to usward, and we ought to thank God for that. He's a long-suffering God. He's not willing that any should perish, but listen, that all should come to repentance. That all should come to repentance. And then let me read you one more, and perhaps you can go there. You're in Luke. Luke chapter number 15 And I want you to look at verse 7 and verse 10. Now the Bible says something very clear here, and I think we we need to stick close to our Bibles. Luke 15, 7 says, I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that what? Repenteth. Can I read that again? I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth more than over 99 just persons which need no repentance. And then verse number 10 of Luke 15 says, likewise I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. One sinner that repenteth. And again, I want to remind you, he didn't say the angels rejoice when they pray. He didn't say that. He didn't say when they when they uh make a profession. He didn't say there's joy in heaven when they make a profession. I'm going somewhere, okay? I'm not just randomly talking here. He didn't say that there's joy when they're baptized. He said there's joy when a sinner repents. When a sinner repents. Now, let me just begin by saying this. I want to tell you two things. Repentance is not. Alright? This is not repentance. Repentance is not cleaning up your life, so God will accept you. There's a lot of people think, well, God can't do nothing with me until I clean my life up. Can I tell you something? What do you take a bath for You take a bath to get clean. Thank you, Micah. Perfect answer. That's what you take a bath for. You you don't sit around and say, well, when I get clean, I'm going to take a bath. You that's foolish. You you've got to get a bath to get clean. And you've got to get born again to get straightened up You don't clean up your life. God cleans your life up. You come to Him as a hopeless sinner, and He makes a new creature out of you. He's the one who makes the difference. Repentance is not cleaning your life up. Repentance is not confessing every sin you've ever committed. Because I'm going to tell you, you don't know everything you've done wrong. You don't know. How many of you know after you got saved as you grew in the Lord, you started seeing things that you've done your whole life, and the Spirit of God said that's wrong? You didn't know it was wrong until God showed you it was wrong. And I'm sure, I'm dead sure, there's a whole lot of things that that are in our lives that we don't know is wrong yet, but God's going to show us they're wrong, and we'll have to get them right. There's no way to confess everything you've ever done wrong. That is not repentance. Let me add one more. Repentance is not being sad or sorry. Let me go a step further and say repentance is not an emotion, per se. It it's not an emotion. You say, well, I I know I repented because I cried. You know, in kindergarten one time I ate a whole bag of marshmallows. By the way, every once in a while a certain church member who will go unnamed brings me marshmallows to remind me of my evil as a child. But I I ate a whole bag of marshmallows, and when I got caught, I cried. I cried a whole lot. I cried before I went to see Mr. Warren, the principal. I cried. I cried sitting at my desk when the teacher said, Um, Jamie, what do you have in your mouth? And I'm sitting there like a squirrel, my jaws poked out. And I started immediately crying. You know why? Because I was caught. I wasn't sorry I eat them. I you know, I I even thought about it when I went home. Even after the principal gave me my whipping and daddy gave me my whipping and I got sent home for the whole week, I still wasn't sorry. I enjoyed eating those marshmallows. Now they weren't mine to eat, but it wa you know, repentance is not shedding a tear. You say, Well, preacher, I know I repented because I cried. Do you know a lot of times we cry over things that are mere surface emotions? Repentance is not a surface emotion. You say, well, preacher, what in the world is repentance? Repentance is the change of mind that leads to a changed life. Or if I can say it like this: it's a change in your thinking that produces a change in your living. Now go back with me to my text, Luke chapter number 13, and I want you to see the wrong thinking that was going on here. And and our Lord brought it up after they did. They came and they told him about these Galileans whose blood Pilate mingled with their sacrifice. Now Historically, we really don't know what they're talking about, other than there were some Galileans that Pilate had put to death. And that phrase, that phraseology mingled with their sacrifices, they must have been religious individuals, religious Jews. Some have said that the Galileans were the rebel rousers of Israel, and that they were always causing him trouble, so every chance he got, he put some of them to death. But whatever it's referring to, the mentality in the people's mind of that day was they told Jesus about it because they said they must be real bad sinners, worse than we are, because they got killed. Now here's the problem with that kind of thinking. We sometimes think bad things happen to bad people. And we hear about tragedies and what have you, and you know what we often immediately think? Well, they must have done something. Well how about opening your Bible and look at Jeremiah sinking in the mire? Did he do wrong? Or read your Bible and read about Job and all that was taken from him. That was pretty bad stuff from a human perspective. But it was not because of any sin in his life. But see the thinking in these people's lives, the thinking in their their mentality, their religious thinking, they were justifying themselves saying it happened to them, it didn't happen to us, so we must be good and they must be bad. This corrupt thinking made them cling to their self-righteousness. They said, we must be righteous because we didn't get killed. We weren't put to death like that. Can I fast forward here to Romans chapter 2, where I've already read, it is the goodness of God that leadeth thee to repentance? You say, but I didn't get caught. I'm not in trouble. This didn't happen. I've got news for you. God's goodness is smiling over your life and is giving you a little window to repent. To repent. They went on to say, and Jesus brought this one up, still, we don't really know all the details, about the tower in Siloam. This tower in Jerusalem that fell and it killed 18 people. And he said, Do you think they're more sinners than you? Do you think they're worse sinners? Because something bad happened to them? They must be worse sinners. They must be bad sinners because the tower fell on them. And what Jesus was getting them to understand is that they were clinging to their self-righteousness and thinking because all these bad things didn't happen to them, they didn't need to repent. But our Lord addresses that corrupt thinking. And by the way, we still got a lot of that today. They had a lot of it. They said to Jesus' face, we be Abraham's seed. You know what they were saying? We're Jews. We're Hebrews. We're part of the royal seed. We don't need you lecturing us about our need to repent or get right. And there's people like that today. Why we're Baptists. Don't you know we're Baptists? Don't you know we're religious folk? Don't you know we're good church people? Friend, listen to me. If you've never repented, you're not saved. You need to be born again from above. And that corrupt thinking. Here's what they said. Why, we Jesus, we keep the law. I mean, they really laid it out. We keep the law. There were some of them bold enough to enumerate the laws they kept and said, now see, this is what we do. And can I I've got news for you that their descendants still live today? Why, preacher, we got standards Preacher, we don't do thus and so. We we well preacher, listen to me. I you know, remember the old this was an old saying when I was a boy, uh we don't uh you know uh smoke or chew or run with them that do Okay, that's good. All that stuff will kill you in the long run. But the reality is that you're not saved by what you do or don't do. You're not saved by that stuff He said to them, listen, they kept the law. He said, You've got to repent. Those people that got killed when the tower fell, those people that got killed there by Pilate, he said, they're no worse sinners than you. Here's the Bible verdict. The Bible's verdict is all have sinned. That means everybody. That includes me. That includes you. We all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. The Bible says there's none righteous, no, not one. There's not a man, woman, boy, girl, teenager, young adult. There's nobody sitting here that can claim righteousness apart from Jesus Christ. Every one of us have to say, Lord, I I need you. Lord, I I I don't have any righteousness of my own. You know, today we sort of get this thinking and we say, Well, I'm an American, so I must be a Christian. Well, dear friend, there's only one problem with that. There's no Bible. Being your nationality doesn't make up your nature. Let me say that again. Your nationality doesn't make up your nature. Your nature came from your great great great great great great grandpappy Adam. And his nature was a fallen nature because he sinned in the Garden of Eden. And because he sins, you need a savior. You have no righteousness in and of yourself. They had some mighty corrupt thinking, and we got it too. You know what we sometimes think? We think I'm okay because I belong to this church. As if Maronath the Baptist Church has ever kept anybody out of hell. Please listen to me. Maronath the Baptist Church can't keep you out of hell no more than the Methodist Church, the Episcopal Church. the Presbyterian church or any other church because no church will keep you out of hell. You say, well I must be okay because I grew up in a Christian home. You can grow up in a Christian home and not be a Christian. You can grow up around the things of God. You can know John 3. 16. You can quote the sinner's prayer, as they call it. You can do all of the things that we think Christians should do and still not be saved. Understand this morning that Jesus said these men who died they're they're in uh on Pilate's hand and these that died in Siloam, they're no different than you. You must repent, just like they must repent. We often sometimes think that because we're a particular brand or a particular denomination or whatever, you fill in the blanks, you know that. That we often have this thinking, well, I must be okay. I wonder how many Baptists are in hell right now. I venture a lot. Because if that's all you've got Do you hear me? That if that's all you got You need to be saved. The corrupt thinking was confronted by the Lord, and then notice what he did, he called them to repent. He says in verse number three, I tell you nay. That means he said no. You got it wrong. Your thinking's corrupt. Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. They were wrong in their thinking. They were wrong in their thinking about the people in Siloam. They were wrong in their thinking about the people that were killed by Pilate. They were wrong in their thinking about their Judaism and their religion and their rituals. They were wrong. And Jesus rebuked them with the truth. And then he followed it up with this personal indictment. He said, But accept ye. When God called Adam on the carpet about his sin, what did he do? That woman you gave me Have you ever really thought about that? It was an underhanded slight to God. If you happen to give her to me, huh? You husbands better tread careful right here. If you hadn't to give her to me, then I wouldn't be in this predicament. He he was blaming the Lord for his sin. That's what he was doing. And then when the woman was confronted about her sin, she said, The serpent, he beguiled me. He tricked me. It's his fault. And oftentimes when we're called on to repent, here's what we do: we start. We pass it back. We say, Boy, I hope so-and-so's here this morning. They need to hear it. Well, beloved, it may be you need to hear it. The call here was for them to repent. He calls them to repentance. To turn from their wrong thinking, to turn from their self-righteousness, to turn from the confidence in their tradition, and to believe the truth. He said, turn, repent. Folks, the call is still going out today. You can't be saved except you repent. God's calling you to turn from that that wrong thinking. I I I read recently of a missionary organization who went into this tribal area and were trying to reach some people and when they started to tell them about the Lord Jesus, they lit up. They said, Oh, we already know him. They said, really? Oh yes, uh we had missionaries come years ago and they said, just accept the Lord Jesus, accept Christ, and you'll be saved. And so we accepted him. And the missionary organization that had sent these men in there said, yeah, but what about that there? What about that idol over there that you're still giving fruit and things too. What about that that thing you're still bowing down before? They said, oh, we just added Jesus to them. You know what happened? They didn't repent. They still believed that there was power in those false gods. They still believed that somehow or another Those dead gods, those fake gods, those idols had some sort of significance in their lives. When Jesus calls you He calls you to turn from all of that. And let me just say, repentance is not a work, because it's not a work of man, repentance is a work of God. It's not a work of man. But God calls man with a responsibility to respond to this repentance. You can't be saved without repenting. We're going to start talking about evangelism here in the days ahead, and I'll tell you what, there's a whole lot of faulty evangelism in our country, in our community. There's a lot of people given a little prayer to pray and given a little notion and nod about the Lord, and they've never been born again. They've not been confronted with their wrong thinking. And it might look good to say I had 14 people pray this week to trust Christ. I'm not interested in how many prayed. I'm interested in how many repented How many really got saved? I'm not trying to discourage it. I'm just trying to tell you, you're dealing with the souls of men. You're not out here selling used cars. You can you you you can sell a lemon and whatever the results of that'll be, but listen you start dealing with a soul and the problem is in this country we've got millions of people who think they're going to heaven and they're headed for hell They've never repented. They prayed a prayer. They've shook a hand. They've gotten the baptismal. They've been made comfortable about their sinfulness. And they go on living like the devil thinking they're going to heaven I'm here to tell you, dear friend, the gospel of Jesus Christ is more powerful than that. It don't just put your name in the Lamb's book of life. It puts the Lamb's life in your heart. It puts a nature in you that'll make you what you are not apart from him. It'll make a new creature out of you. Oh, don't cheapen the God. I know we get anxious. We want to see people saved. We want to see people come to Christ. We do. We desire that. But there's you you can't cheapen what Christ has done or declares in his precious word just to get a few converts on paper. I know a church that gives an annual report to their association, and the last of the year it's a dead run to try to get somebody to make a profession. Because they wanted to report in the books that they had some people saved. And they'll sh they'll they'll do everything they can to shake the bushes to get some sinner fall out and make some sort of profession. Folks, this is more serious than that This is more important than that. This is too serious a thing than to just go around being salesmans about the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, how we need the work of the Spirit of God. He said you except you repent, except you repent. Here was the people that were religious outwardly. They looked good on the outside. They I mean they had it all together, so to speak but they still needed to repent and they're telling Jesus, look at all these sinners and what they're doing. Folks, that's no different than God's people driving down the road, seeing somebody stumbling along, dog drunk And saying, Now look at that person, isn't that a shame? And feeling like you're better than they. I've got news for you, friend. That'd be you if you weren't born again. And if if if you're thinking you're born again just simply because you're not in that person's shoes, you need to stop and check and make sure that you've repented and come to Jesus Christ. It's not what you do, it's what Jesus has already done. It's not up to you, my the whole how God we need this preach uh across the country again that salvation is of the Lord. It's his doing, it's not mine We had cheapened it to buying a car or doing making some transaction. Well, if you'll just take this little prayer right here and pray it, you'll be okay As if somehow or another those words have power. I'm telling you, there's no power in those words. There's no power in uttering some little chant. You know where the power is? We sung about it this morning. There's power, power, wonder working power, where? In the blood of the Lamb. It's the blood of the Lamb that puts your sin away. It's the blood of the Lamb that breaks that power of sin. Cancels that power of sin. Oh Wesley wrote it. I read it this morning. Hand can it be. Can it be that I should gain an interest in the Savior's blood? What is it that charmed me and brought me? It was the blood of Jesus Christ. He canceled that. He canceled sin. His blood has the power. It's not the words I pray. I was just thinking of how many different prayers are recorded in the Bible. And there's a lot of them. There's a lot of them. I heard of a man recently. Here's what he prayed, Brother Charlie. He said, Lord, if you can do something with a knucklehead like me, here I am. That just threw a wrench in some of your theology. I don't even have to hear protest to hear pro feel protest. Or he didn't pray a few off. You know what he knew? He knew he messed up. He had sinned against God. He was wicked, and he needed to trust Christ. And he did it he did with the what words he had. It's the only vocabulary he had. He didn't have the King James English, he didn't have the Victorian verbiage. He just simply said, God, if you do something with me, here I am I'm here to tell you God here's the plea of a heart like that. Except you repent, you shall likewise perish He's calling, he's calling, he's urging men to come. He's calling, I believe this morning, men to repent. Stop clinging to the lies, stop clinging to the wrong thinking, stop clinging To the to to to that little flimsy just seek about this. One day you're gonna face God One day you're going to face God, and you're going to face Him with something if all you've got this little old profession you made when somebody twisted your arm to pray. Well, I remember I'm glad. I'm so glad for a Holy Spirit-filled preacher who preached a book to me as a boy. My sister ran home, told me I needed to be saved. She's my older sister. She babysat us. And she burst in my room at midnight, and she's weeping and crying, and I'm thinking, oh, honestly, my little guilty, rotten conscience, I thought, what have I done? And I'm I'm thinking through the day, did I do something bad? I mean, did I do something in a room? I couldn't remember taking nothing. I couldn't remember at least on that day I couldn't And I was trying to figure out what was going on. She said, You're you're going to hell. And I said, Yeah, I I know I'm going to hell You need to be saved. I said, yeah, I know I need to be saved. Get down right here and pray and ask the Lord to save you. Well, you're five years old. Here's your big sister. I knew if I didn't get down and pray, she might light me up I mean, that's just life. And so I got down and I prayed, and she said, Oh great, he's saved. And and ever and then and then you you say, Well how much pride can a five year old have? Just as much as a fifty? I knew I wasn't saved. I remember telling a lie just shortly after that, and the Spirit of God said, You ain't no different. Just pierced my heart through. But boy, I'm so grateful that as an eight-year-old boy, you say, can all that go on in a youth's heart? You bear believe it. You bear believe it. A lot of times more can go on there than can in ours, because their old hearts aren't hard yet. And I remember, I remember, boy, that day that that God was calling me from that little profession. I thought, you know, if I die right now, that's all I got. That ain't gonna get me in. It's not changed my nature. How in the world is it gonna change my eternity? And thank God for his faithful mercies and grace that would save a sinner who said, Lord, have mercy. Hey, it's it's we we often put a lot of emphasis where God doesn't put the emphasis. Notice what Jesus is doing. He's calling them, and he's calling us, repent. Except you repent, you shall all likewise perish. Repent, he calls us to. Then notice the conclusion he makes here. He says, ye shall all likewise perish. Well, that's a sober truth, ain't it? Can I say this as kindly as I know how? If your thinking's wrong about the Lord, it's taking you to hell If you're wrong about who Jesus is and you're wrong about salvation, that wrong thinking will land you in hell. That's a sober truth. That's a somber reality. Listen, you can't be wrong about the Lord Jesus and be right with God. Because he's God's only way. He's God's only son. He's not one of options. He's the only way. And as a Christian, let me remind you and I, as Christians, we can't be wrong in our thinking and be right with God in our hearts. You say, what is this repentance? Let me say three things and I'm done. Number one, it begins with an awareness. You say, what do you mean an awareness? An awareness that I am wrong. You say, who does that? God's Spirit and God's Word. The Spirit of God takes the word of God and he confronts you and says you're wrong. Your heart's wrong. Your thinking's wrong. You're trusting the wrong thing. You're trusting the wrong thing. You're trusting in something that's not going to save you. You're trusting in something that's not true. It It's wrong And so the Spirit of God and the Word of God, that's what Jesus did. He confronted them and said, Nay, you're wrong. These people aren't worse sinners than you. The fact is you're all sinners, and except you repent, you'll likewise perish He he he confronted the wrong thinking, and the word of God will do that, and the Spirit of God will do that. And then what happens when you repent? There's an attitude that's adopted. What's the attitude? God, you're right. You know where the battle is this morning? We just won't get the right attitude. We just won't get now talking about the attitude of the heart. That that God, you're right. You know, I I was just thinking the other day about the the the culture and where we're going as a culture, and we're literally raising people to think God's wrong. We we automatically teach them he's wrong when we tell them that we evolved rather than he created. And we think we and they begin to think, well God must got he must have it wrong, he's wrong. And then we move to this self-esteem movement and we say, well, uh y y you know, you're good. You you you're not as bad as you as people say. You you're pretty good. You just need the the good flame fanned and so uh we begin to boost that that that old rotten corrupt depraved nature. I praise the Lord that I was born before all that. Because I know how rotten I am already, and I'd be in bad shape if I'd went through the self-esteem movement. I'm here to tell you, dear friend, this Bible is right. And it may make me uncomfortable. In fact, sometimes this old Bible makes me miserable. Sometimes the Bible you know people talk about cats don't like their fur rubbed the wrong way. I find that funny And uh one fellow said, Well, you know what the cat needs to do? He needs to turn around. And sometimes the Bible will rub your fur the wrong way, and the Bible don't need to change, you just need to turn around. You need to repent. Wrong thinking, wrong thinking. And as God begins to work in your heart, that attitude, if you will, of submission that God is right and I am wrong. Now here's where the action takes place. The action is on the inside, but it shows up on the outside. You say, preacher, what's the action? You side with God against yourself. That's repentance. You take sides with God. It's like God puts you up on the witness stand and He puts you up and He's and He's questioning you. You ever been to court in that way? You're being questioned? And uh th they're putting the judge is putting the questions to you and he's trying to figure out if you tell him the truth, and maybe you're trying to cover something up and finally you just blurt it out and say, look, I'm wrong. I broke the law. I did wrong. I I I was talking to a judge one time up in Nova Scotia, the fellow I used to put roofs on houses with, uh, he got took it to court and we got questioned all this. And I remember sitting there talking to that judge, and uh we had a good opportunity tell him to preach the gospel there to him, but he he made this statement. He said, you know, he said, it is my life's profession to find out if folks are lying. He said, You wouldn't believe the people that come in here put their hand on a Bible and lied of me in the face. I said, You know something? I said, Judge, me and you got a lot in common. I said they do it in the courtroom, they just do it in my church house. They carry them, they don't put their hands on them, but they carry them and they tell a lie. And you know what repentance is? It's saying, God, I'm through lying. I believe what you 're right, God, I'm wrong. It's when you take sides with God against yourself. That's the action of repentance. People say, Well, sir, you're preaching a works-based salvation. No, I'm not. I'm not telling you to go out here and quit drinking and smoking and run around. I'm telling you to take sides with God against yourself. The Bible declares you're a sinner. Agree with God on it, because He's right, and if you don't believe it, you're wrong. The Bible declares you lost and hopeless and hellbound, and God's right, and the Bible's right. The Bible declares that Jesus is the only one who can save you. And again, the Bible's right. But here's the problem, Lord, I know you need my help. So here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to help you by I'm going to pray. I'm going to pray these words and I'm going to trust them more than I trust you Lord, I'm going to be, I'm going to join that church and I'm going to get in that water and be baptized. And I'm going to do all these things. And church, I'm just trying to say this morning that none of that will do you any good. The only thing that'll save you is Jesus Christ. When you take sides with God against yourself. And once again, dear friend, know this. This is true repentance. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, but old, all things become new. This is the work of God, but look, it requires a response from you. It's a work of God. Yes, I agree wholeheartedly. Repentance is a work of God. It's part of that grace as God begins to work in a person's heart. But He requires a response from you He's not going to leave you and twist your arm and say, now you better repent. You better repent. You better repent There's a response on the inside. And I'll tell you what, the minute that old heart bows the knee, and the minute that submission to God occurs, Look, I've seen people say before they got up out of their pew. You know why? They repented right there. They turned in that heart. They turned in that heart I hear from this lady every once in a while, Sister Judy. Sometimes she'll write and say, Hey, we listen to the service, blah blah blah. But listen, when she got saved, she she got saved before she ever got up That lady had been just obnoxious for months. Leaving our service, slamming the doors. She never stayed through preaching. She'd stay till she got mad, then she'd leave. And she do it in such a ceremonious way. She was a very dignified lady. And boy, she made sure that everybody knew she didn't like it. She's leaving. But she kept coming back. And I'll tell you, I it got to the point where I thought, what are you coming for? I mean, there are times that she would come and she'd get ready to leave. I just stop preaching everybody, just wait. She'd either slam her Bible or slam a book or she would, you know, she'd wear these big old high heels and she'd stomp out the door, slam it. And then we just start having church. It got so commonplace that nobody was surprised. Well, we just, okay, she's leaving. Let's just wait. She's done. We'll finish church. But boy that morning she shocked me. I had to stop preaching not because I didn't have more to say. It was just because it so shocked me that she did what she did When she shut her Bible this time, she shut it with with a definite purpose, but then she got up and she didn't go that way, she came this way. And I wished I could tell you I was a man of faith and thought she's coming to get saved. I thought she's coming to whoop my hide. I did I thought she was that mad. She said, I've had enough of that preacher, I'm gonna go beat him And and I I didn't think, man, when she knelt right here and got in in the altar and she began to cry and others got around her, she was calling on the Lord. Well, she didn't get saved right here. She got saved when she got up out of that seat She bowed that knee. She repented in her heart. She was turning to God. She said, God, you're right, I'm wrong. I've been wrong all these years, and Lord, you're right, and I'm coming home. I'm glad God made a way for a wicked lost person to be able to say, God have mercy on me. I've been wrong. You're right. Here I come. And He'll take you. He'll save you on the spot. Listen to me, friend. If you've never repented, you've never been really saved. If you've never repented, you've never been really born again. And by the way, dear Christian, you know this. When you get saved, it's the beginning of repentance as a lifestyle. Huh? I read something this morning and the Holy Ghost said, See, you're wrong. And you know what I did? I repented. I said, God, you're right. I had to bow my heart and say, God, this is right. Now I thought I was right. Look, most people I know think they're right. If you don't believe it, ask them. Every man thinks he's right. I'll emphasize every man thinks he's right You're going somewhere, you know where you're going, right? I know exactly where I'm going. You don't have a clue where you're going. Well, I I'm I'm right, you know. I remember I was just thinking of Joe being little this morning here on his birthday and I was thinking of him and uh when he was little I'd tell him we'd be working on something and it'd be c a catastrophe, something would fly apart And I'd say, son, see, that's your fault. And as he got older it was a joke, okay, don't get off Come off of you spiritual high horses, people. You self righteous crowd. It 's a it happened, especially, you know, one day I hit myself with a hammer and Sorry Dad, I didn't mean to do that, you know. He said real smart because he knew it was my fault, right? But he took the blame, he took the blame for it. He said, I don't know what I did, but it was me. I'm sorry. You know what repentance is? It's on and up to who you are. It's on and up to the reality that God, I I'm wrong. I'm wrong. And if you're not repenting, listen to me, please. Christians, if you're not, if we are not repenting on a regular basis, we're nowhere near right with God. We're not right with God. I can still hear old Dr. Percy Ray. I believe he's the godliest man I've ever met. He he tried to live as near heaven as he could. That was all he lived for. But he said, if I come hear you preach, he was an old country preacher. He said, if I come hear you preach and you don't blow me off my perch, I'll never be back. He said every old buzzard could fly a little higher. That might offend some of you, but I think maybe we need to be offended by the truth. Everybody here could fly a little higher. Everybody here could get a little closer. And you know why we don't? We won't repent. We 're either too proud, too religious, too worldly, too carnal, too caught up in things that don't matter, too absorbed in this old rotten life. Too wrapped up in ourself that we're not willing to say, God, I'm wrong. You're right. Help me. Salvation stood at these people's door. And they slammed the door and turned away. Christian, are you repentant? Dear sinner friend, dear lost person, the Lord loves you with a love I can't describe. I don't have a vocabulary to tell you. But I do have an incident to describe, and it's called Calvary. It was there he hung and bled and died for your sin. Paid your sin debt in full He did it because he loves you. He he paid the sin debt for you. He paid your sin debt. And had you been the only sinner, he would have paid that debt for you. And dear friend, he did that so he could save you. The Bible says they took him down and put him in a tomb, but three days later he rose again. And he offers salvation by his work. By his work. To those that'll call upon him. Repentance towards God. God, you're right, I'm a sinner. God, you're right, there's nothing I can do to be saved. God, you're right. I I I'm wrong here in this matter. I need you. Cry out to him for mercy. And I'll tell you what, there'll be a merciful God come your way with a dose of salvation that'll change your eternity and change you right here in time. It's real. Salvation's real. But dear brother and sister, have we gotten so self-righteous that we've forgotten we need to repent? This Bible calls me and says, hey, you're wrong. Turn around. Get right with me. There's nothing worth not being right with God over. Nothing. Your name, your standing, your office, your position People thought that nothing is worth not getting right with God Do you need to repent? Could you stand with me, please? We're not going to sing this morning, but I'm going to ask the pianists to come and play.