Amen. Appreciate those young people, don't you? Very much so. I want you to find three places in your Bible. Romans 12, Romans 13, and Ephesians 5. Did you find those three places in the Word of God? Romans 12. Romans 13 and Ephesians chapter number five. I'm going to read one verse in each place. And I want you to look at them with me. Romans chapter number 12, the first verse I want you to notice is verse number 21. Romans chapter 12 and verse number 21, look what the scriptures say. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good. Romans chapter thirteen and verse number eleven and that knowing the time That now it is high time to awake out of sleep. For now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 16, please. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 16 says, Redeeming the time. Because the days are evil. Redeeming the time because the days are evil. But Lord helping me this evening, I want to preach on responding to evil. Responding to evil. Let's pray. Father, we bow in Jesus' name and thank you for the privilege to be in this place. I thank you for the power of the Word of God. I thank you for the presence of the Holy Spirit. And I pray, Lord, that you and mercy would just take and work in our hearts as you see fit. Lord, would you equip us to live For your utmost glory in these days. Would you speak to us, Lord? You know the need. And Lord, help us. Help me, Lord. I pray you'd hide me behind the cross. Lord, help me to lift up Jesus and empty me of self and fill me with Christ. And I pray, Lord, you'd help me to say what you want me to say and not say a thing that ought not be said. Lord, would you undertake? We'll give you the glory. We praise you and thank you and pray in Jesus' strong name. And God's people said , Amen. I don't want to give any free advertisement for the devil. But we have witnessed in recent days a great deal of evil. Just evil. I can't think of any other word to use to describe it. When a man's life is taken in the manner in which it was, that's evil. It's evil when there are celebrations over the death of anyone. What I witnessed this week took me to our study in Revelation where when the two witnesses are killed in Jerusalem. The Bible says they'll give gifts. They'll celebrate it as an international holiday. They'll rejoice over the death of those two witnesses. We've watched a preview. That's evil. We are living in very evil days. And I've got to be honest with you tonight that my my first reactions to evil are not always spiritual. I feel like many of you do at times. And yet the Spirit of God reminds me That there is his way to respond to evil. As we've read these passages of Scripture, I just want to be very simple tonight. And stick as close to the book as I possibly can and ask the Lord to help us to know how He would have us to respond to evil. I remind you that the Bible says that evil men will wax worse and worse The scriptures make it very clear that in the days before Jesus comes we will be living in the days that were back in the day, like and unto the days of the days of Noah The days of Sodom and Gomorrah. And one of the characteristics of those days, especially in the days of Noah, we're told that violence filled the earth. It's what the Bible says. Violence filled the earth. And we're going to see, and we are seeing, I think we're in the midst of that. of seeing a um uptick or a flood tide of evil. Now as God's people, we have the Bible to be our God. My emotions will get me in trouble. My knee-jerk reactions will get me in trouble. I mean, if I just follow what I feel, people say, just follow your heart. That's the most ignorant advice you'll ever be given. Because your heart like mine is deceitful and desperately wicked. So what do we do? We follow the Word of God. We follow the Scriptures. So how would the Lord have me To respond to evil. If you're making notes, I want you to notice number one, don't be overcome by it. Just don't be overcome by it. Romans chapter 12 and verse 21 says, be not overcome of evil. That word overcome means to be conquered by. Here's another definition, a literal definition. It means to be disturbed, to be so disturbed by an injury that you're driven to vengeance. Don't be overcome by evil. Do you know we can get so caught up by by evil that we can get carried away by evil? We can get carried away. Uh we we can get so so caught up in this thing of evil and and and you say, Well preacher, what do I do? By the way, when Paul wrote these words, nobody had Facebook. When Paul wrote these words, nobody had a cell phone. By the way, you and I are inundated with evil information. Continually. I mean we know every bad thing that happens just about anywhere around the globe. And I don't know that we're made, I don't think that we're made to handle and process all of that junk. Don't be overcome by evil. You know, evil is such that it draws you in. Someone described it like this: that evil is like quicksand. I've never been in quicksand, but I have been in marsh marsh mud or muck. And one thing you learn about both of those things is that they'll pull you down the more you struggle against it. If you get in there and you start trying to thrash around, the next thing you know, buddy, you're going deeper, faster, quicker than you would have if you'd just been still and then try to ease yourself out. Evil is such that it consumes us. Something grieved me this week. It seemed like everybody and their brother wanted to share that gruesome video of that dear man dying. I saw it once and it turned my stomach. And I thought, God, uh God, I wish I hadn't seen it. You know, we we've got a guard, this is a warning, and this is the the warning that we're given at here in the Word of God. Be not overcome with evil. Don't let your heart get flooded with the evil that surrounds you. You say, Well, preacher, what do I do? Go find me a uh a patch of wood, some forty acres, and get in the middle of it and just cut myself off? Oh no. God's given us something far better than that. I'll tell you one of the things you can do is just keep your eyes on the Lord. Keep your focus on the Lord. By the way, in the midst of all the evil, God is still God. God is still good. The Bible's still true. The Holy Ghost still lives in you. Heaven is your home. And everything that matters is untouched by the evil that's all around us. Don't be overcome by evil. It may mean to not be overcome by evil, you've got to step back every once in a while and say, you know what, I don't need to know everything that's going on. I know we got a problem being humans, we're nosy. Son, I thought when you give testimony under the tabernacle I thought you you're talking about Sarah, you know, saying what we did after you went to bed. When he was little, he had a problem. He was just nosy. He wanted to know everything we did, said, every step we took. I mean, he he just had to know. I think he's got over some of that, maybe. But he had to know. You don't need to know all the evil. Paul warned a group of believers to be simple concerning evil. I'm not saying put your head down in the sand and think you know everything's okay, but I'm just saying there comes a place that you've got to guard your heart from being overcome by evil. Turn the television off. Shut your phone off. Stop going to all of those those places. I I used to have a news app and it would update me with everything. And and after a while, I mean you get 50, 60 updates through the through the day and and none of it's good You don't get good news, right? How many of you know that's true? You don't get good news. Most of the the news that you get is bad news, and before you know it, you think, my goodness. But the whole world is immersed in evil. Well, it may be, but what we've learned as we've studied Revelation is that through it all, God gives us glimpses Of him, of heaven, of the throne, of the reality that in spite of evil, God's still God. Don't be overcome. Keep your focus on the Lord. Like our brother preached this morning. He made me nervous a time or two. I thought you were going to preach my message here. Slow down. But nevertheless, I appreciate the Lord ordering that thing. But listen, pray. Pray. When you get overcome, when you feel yourself being overcome by evil, pray. Get along with God. Someone said prayer is breathing heaven's air. Breathing heaven's air. Were there something about just just fresh, clean, crisp air? I love to go back to the mountains and get up on a high mountain somewhere and just take a deep breath. It's different air. I'm sorry, it don't have those weird smells we have around here in Elton. And uh don't have that heavy humidity that we have here. It's a different kind of air. It's a lighter, it seems more more invigorating, healthful air. But the best way I can pray, the best way I can get heaven's breath is to get in a place of prayer and just call on the Lord and say, Oh Lord, and and begin to have fellowship with God. Why Because what we're doing when we pray is we're leaving a world of where we can do nothing. And we're moving into the realm where all things are possible when we pray. Then get in your Bible. Just get in the Word of God. Open the Bible and get God's perspective on these present problems. Open the Bible and say, Now Lord, what do you got to say? I've heard what the evening news said, I've heard what my friends' opinions are, I've heard all of the uh political talking heads, but God, what do you say? And I'll tell you what God has to say is worth listening to. Don't be overcome with evil. Protect your heart. From being inundated. And by the way, mu most of you don't have small kids or young, really young kids, but protect your children. Protect your children from their minds and hearts being full of evil. Protect them. Don't give them unlimited access to the internet. Well, preacher, there that they can handle it. No, they can't. Most of adults can't handle it. Most of adults. I don't take this disrespectfully, but I'm amazed at how many old people waste their time on their phone. You would think that living long while would teach you something. I was thinking the other day about my dad, and I was wondering, would my dad have Facebook? No, he wouldn't. And he'd have some pretty ugly things to say probably about it. You say, preacher, you're preaching. I'm not pre I here's what I'm trying to tell you. You better guard your hearts and minds. You don't realize that there are evil people that are doing evil things and they're using tools to do those evil things to encapsulate your mind and heart with everything that's ungodly. Got to notice on the church's Facebook page. It said, we're now giving you, listen this, we're now giving you a wider audience because of positive interaction. So I sent question, what does that mean? Here's what it means. They're controlling the information that's being distributed And they're controlling it in the amounts in which they wish to be distributed. I felt like saying, hey, why don't you control some of that garbage that I keep getting? Why don't you cut some of that evil stuff off and let some of these good things go and turn at least? You know why? Because it don't fit the narrative. You've got to understand, folks, there is a real devil and a real plan and a real work going on behind the scenes that is evil to the core. Don't be overcome by it. You can't be ignorant about these things. You've got to be aware and understand, hey, sometimes I just gotta guard my mind and guard my eyes and guard my heart. Why? Because the devil wants you slammed full of evil. And if all you see is evil, you know what you'll be? You'll be a discouraged Christian. If all you if if all you uh uh see and All you hear and all you look at are are all the evil things that are going on, you'll be defeated, you'll be depressed, you'll be discouraged. And I'll tell you what, God can't do anything with a Christian like that except get them back up, get them on their feet, get that garbage out of their mind and heart, and encourage them to go on. So don't be overcome. Number two, do good. Look what it says: be not overcome of evil. But overcome evil with good. Now in the context, look back up at the next verse. Verse 20. Therefore, if thine enemy hunger, feed him. If he thirst, give him drink. For in so doing thou shalt heat coals of fire on his head. That's doing good Do you know what that is in a word? That's showing people the reality of Jesus Christ in your life. That's doing good. When you show people that your Jesus is real. Can I ask you something? If you were taken to a court of law, And examined for evidence of Jesus being real in your life, is there enough to convict you of being a Christian? Is there enough evidence that say, hey, Jesus lives in that man? Or Jesus lives in that woman? I mean, he's real in that person's life. He's real to them. He's real inside of them. Why? Because of the way they live their lives. The greatest good that you and I can do is to show people that Jesus Christ is real. That's the greatest good you can do. And oftentimes it's not done in a sermon, it's done in everyday steps of life. Showing that Jesus is real. I was asked to pray for a fellow who was my Sunday school teacher when I was a junior boy. And I'll tell you, if you've ever had a Sunday school class of junior boys, that is a test of your faith. Right? Now there were about 12 of us in that class, if my memory serves me right, and we were a terror And Brother Terry, how he he put up with us like he did is beyond me, other than he really loved us and he loved Jesus and he wanted us to know who Jesus was. That was the only reason. Somebody got a hold of thumb tax one day. And we decided to feel the cushion that he sat on in his chair full of thumb tax. And boy, when he sat down, it was like getting stung by a thousand porcupines. I mean, buddy, it nailed him. Now I'll never forget what he did. I thought, you know, my thinking is, well, when he finds out who did it, we're gonna go to the preacher. The preacher's gonna take us to mom and daddy, we're gonna give us spanking, and that'll be this. But he got up and he walked around and he started to cry. And I thought, well, maybe he's going to kill us. Maybe we're all going to die today. And he said, boys, he said, I know you think that's funny. He said, I probably would have thought it was funny when I was a little boy. He said, Do you know why I put up with you? And he called us knuckleheads. Do you know why I put up with you knuckleheads? He said, because every one of you are going to live forever. And he preached the best gospel message I ever heard in my whole life. You know what I sat there and thought after I thought how wicked I was? I thought, you know what? Jesus is real. He's very real. He's made that man different. Folks, I'm saying that that that what how can we keep from being overcome with evil? By continuing to show people that Jesus Christ is real. Do good. Do some good that points people to Jesus Christ. Remember, you're calling, Christian. We're called to be salt and light. And we can't be salt and light when we're overcome by evil. If our candlestick gets a bushel basket put on top of it, it's not going to shine like God wants it to shine. There's a thousand opportunities that'll come your way that'll give you an opportunity to show people that Jesus Christ is real. It may be on the job when all the dirty jokes are being said and you step away and say, I'm not interested It may be as you go about your day, you get an opportunity to help somebody, and nobody else will know, nobody else will see, but you help them because you want them to know that, hey, I really do care about you. And that's not preaching the gospel, that's showing the gospel, but as we show the gospel, we've got to preach the gospel too. When the state of Maryland went after the Baltimore Rescue Mission, you've never seen more angry people than the men who call that place home for the night. They were mad. They were mad because every night they are shown Jesus through that ministry. They're given something to fill their hungry bellies, and they're given a bed to sleep in that keeps them safe and warm, and and then they're given a message of salvation every single night. And I'll tell you what, they know the reality of who really does care, and they see Jesus Christ day by day in the actions of those people. I ask you again, are we doing good? Are we doing good to look, this world don't need another opinion. It needs Jesus Christ. It doesn't need you and I to say, well, I'll tell you what if I was the president. Listen, you're not the president Just do good. You you might have an opinion about how I I was thinking years ago when I first started preaching, my pastor was doing something I didn't agree with, and I had an opinion about it. And somehow he heard about it. He said, I want you to come see me tomorrow. And I sat in his office and he said, I hear you've got an opinion about this matter. And I said, Yes, sir, I do. I said, I think you should do. He said, son, let me tell you something. Number one, you don't have all the information. Number two, you ain't the pastor. Number three, he said, you're still wet behind the ears. And then he said, number four, the day may come that you're in the same situation. And he said, You better pray, the Lord give you wisdom. Can I tell you something? It wasn't six months I was pastor in a church, and God put me in the same situation. All my confidence was gone out the window, Brother Lee. I thought I knew what I'd do, but sitting there looking at it in real time with real people and real situation, I wasn't so sure as I was before. You know, we can get caught up in all the things that aren't our responsibilities. Hey, it's not my job to go out here and turn this world around and make it do right. But it is my job to go out here and show people Jesus Christ. It is my job to live so that people will know my Jesus is real and my salvation is real and what God can do for them is real. That's my job. That's my calling. That's your calling as a Christian. So go do good. Be not overcome with evil, but overcome evil with good. Let me quickly say number three, wake up. Romans 13 11 says, and that knowing the time that now it's high time to awake out of sleep. That word high time means a definite time. It is now the time to be spiritually alert. The alarm's going off. You know what evil is? Evil is an alarm clock to say it's time to wake up. It's time to wake up spiritually. Three times the Bible tells us to awake. 1 Corinthians 15, 34, Ephesians 5. 14, and 1 Thessalonians 5. 6. All three verses say it's my responsibility to wake up. How many of you use alarm clock to get up in the morning? A few of you. The rest of you retired. Wake up. What does that alarm clock say? Get out of bed. Now there are some people that wake up awake. I think you understand what I'm trying to say. Eyes open, they're bright-eyed and bushy-tailed when the minute they hit their feet hit the floor. Usually those people marry a person who's the opposite. And that person gets up in stages. Right? Just because their eyes are open and they're looking around doesn't mean you have permission to speak. Right? It does not mean that they're ready to do anything other than to make sure they're all there and everything works. Right. And maybe by ten or eleven o'clock in the day they woke up. There are wait. I don't know why the Lord does that. Maybe to help both. But it sure seems that God puts them kind of people together. But the scripture is saying that I need to wake up. That means to be alert, to not be groggy, not to be drowsy, but to be alert to what's going on around me. Jesus invited three of his disciples, Peter, James, and John, to pray before the betrayal in the garden. And when he came back, on three occasions, he found them sound asleep. And he told them to watch and pray. In other words, men stay alert. This isn't time to be asleep. This isn't time to be spiritually in cruise control. This is time to be alert to see what's going on. Look, you and I need to be engaged spiritually. You know you can sleepily read your Bible. I'm not talking about with just your eyes closed. I'm talking about with your heart disengaged. You can read your Bible asleep. You can pray asleep. You can go to church asleep. But we need to wake up. We need to engage our hearts and engage our minds. You know, I've been studying this thing of worship, and I find that worship is connected to thinking, which leads to thinking. Well, you know what I worship? I worship when I'm thinking about the goodness of God. And when I think about the goodness of God, I'm thankful and I worship him because of his goodness. I'm engaged. How many times we come in here, pick up a hymn book, and we sing a song and we don't even know what was sung? I mean, we sing that song and it has no meaning. We don't think about what it's saying. We don't consider the words. We don't consider what's the meaning behind it, what God's trying to communicate through it. Or we sit and we hear a sermon and and we think, well, y you know, we we our minds go here, yet there and yon, and and it and it deviates and and and detours and and then we wonder, you know, I I went to church, but did I get anything out of it? It's like eating fast food out of a drive through. Man you just run through have you ever done that and you had your meal and you think, What did I eat? A few days ago, Liz said, What'd you have for lunch? I said, Hmm. I can't remember. But I what it was, I I had eaten it so fast I I just you know, I didn't think about what I was eating. I was just eating and and and I got and I didn't even know what I'd had Sometimes we spiritually live like that and we're not engaged in our heart. We don't come to church on purpose. We don't sing on purpose. We don't pray on purpose. We don't seek God on purpose. We don't re See her Bible on purpose We're asleep, though we're awake, but what we need to do is wake up, and that's your responsibility. That's what the Bible says. You awake. You wake up. We need to wake up. Notice he says it's high time. Knowing the time. You know what time it is? Do you know what time it is? It's time to be awake. It's not time to be just drifting and coasting and floating Some of you precious Christians could be a great tool for God and bring much glory to Him and be very useful, but you're asleep. Sleeping people don't get things done. You still hear him old daddy waking us up in the morning? You had two chances. You get up when he came in there, or you got up when he dumped you in the floor. And he'd always say about five o'clock, he'd kick the foot of the bed, said daylights are burning. Time to go. On Saturday. Isn't that mean? I mean, I had to go to school Monday through Friday. But on Saturday, you know, I hear my friends saying, oh, we sleep and do all this. My dad's in there. Hey, we got wood to cut. He'd kick the end of the bed and say, hey, daylights are burning. He said, nobody ever did anything from laying in bed. Oh, he hated that. Josiah, you know we stayed with him when he was an older man. He come to our door, what, five o'clock, four thirty? We staying upstairs and he opened the door and said, Hey, you gonna sleep all day? Like, Dad's son's not up yet. Thank God for children. I said, Josiah, go entertain grandpa. We're gonna sleep So he went down, they drunk coffee, and I mean he's just a little thing. He's giving him coffee and bacon. He's sick for days after that experience with Pay Paul. But he did let us sleep till 8:30. So praise the Lord for your sacrifice on our behalf. But church, we've got to wake up. The church is asleep for the most part. Most Christians are not engaged. Most Christians are on cruise control. Most Christians are going through the motion. When's the last time you sung a hymn and it so spoke to your heart and gripped your heart that the message of it brought some kind of change in your life? When's the last time you read your Bible and you got out of that time and said, you know, God said something to me? When's the last time you got down in prayer and knew that you touched heaven and God heard your prayer? Church, we gotta wake up. It's high time. And we awake out of sleep. Quickly, number four, we need to look up. You notice the latter part of that verse? For now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. If you believe the Bible, do you know what that means? We're 2,000 years closer. We're that much closer. Now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. Folks, the Lord Jesus Christ is coming. And we don't need to lose sight of it. The Bible says in 2 Peter 3 and verse starting in verse number 3, that there shall come scoffers in the last days. They'll be mocking this promise of his coming. Where is the promise of his coming? They're going to think it's a funny thing. And by the way, I used to think those scoffers were outside of the church. I've come to realize that those scoffers are often inside the church. They really don't believe Jesus is coming. But I've got news for you tonight, dear brother and sister. Jesus Christ is coming again. Keep looking up. You won't be disappointed. You will not be disappointed. One of these days you're going to be looking up and he's going to stand up and he's going to take you up. And my friend, the truth of the Word of God will be fulfilled. Keep looking up. I'm talking about how do I respond to evil? You know what I could do? I could start looking at all the evil around me, and the next thing you know, my shoulders are so pressed. And my h my heart is so heavy that I'm just looking down. I mean, just looking down at all the problems and looking down at all the circumstance Looking down at all the trouble, saying it's it's just gonna get worse and worse. We know that. The Bible says it. But that do that just simply says we're getting that much closer to home. Evil men will wax worse and worse. That means Jesus is coming soon. Nation will rise against nation. That just means Jesus is coming soon. There's going to be turmoil in politics and society and culture. There's going to be moral decay, and the church is going to go away and turn away from the truth. Apostasy is going to occur. They're going to turn their back on the Bible and say we don't believe it anymore. And listen, all of that just says Jesus is coming. He's coming. Are you looking for that? Are you expecting that? Old Noah, for a long time, knew that judgment was coming. And day by day he anticipated. He didn't know when the rain would fall. He didn't know when the the promise would be kept. But he did know this: God keeps his promises. And one day, God said, get in the ark. It's time. One day, church. The Lord's gonna say it's time. Don't lose sight of that. Don't let some Bible-denying preacher that's got more degrees than he does God tell you that Jesus is not coming. Don't let them talk you out of the truth. The blessed hope of the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior. He's going to come. And hallelujah, what a day for us when he does come. Every dear believer, as best I can tell in the New Testament, expected him to come in their lifetime. You study your Bible, you'll find out they all expected it. The Thessalonians so expected it that they thought they missed it. They thought he had come already. And Paul never dreamed that he would die, but he expected the Lord to come. You say how sad. No, how wonderful that he lived with the hope burning in his heart that Jesus Christ could come. But there will be a generation who lives Who will never die in that sense that Jesus will come and they'll miss death. That gonna be something? I hope I'm in that generation. It would be a wonderful thing not to have to go through that valley of the shadow, to be changed in a moment, the twinkling of an eye. Oh, how the Lord has given us great hope through his word, church. Keep looking up. Jesus Christ will come. Our salvation is nearer than when we believed. Some of you raised your hand this morning and said you've been saved forty years. 40 years. Plus. Some have been saved fifty. I thought of Mrs. Dickerson. I meant to ask her. I'm sure she's she's had to have been saved sixty years or more Probably seventy. That's what I was thinking. She's that much closer. than when she got born again back there. Just like you are. We're that much closer. Just keep looking up We're getting close to home. All this garbage you see happening in the world is just an indication we're getting near. We're nearing that shore. We're seeing it fulfilled just like the Word of God says. By the way, what's happening is not because of politics, not because of social ills or setbacks. That's the reason it's at No, it's happening because God said it would happen. It's a time of preparation for the man of sin But before that comes the Son of Man, the Lord Jesus Christ. So just keep looking up. And then let me say this in closing. We need to step it up. The Bible tells us over here in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 16, redeeming the time. Because the days are evil. This is no time to step back. This is no time to be afraid. This is no time. Hey, don't be a used to. Some of you used to witness. You don't no more. Some of you used to carry gospel tracts so you'd tell people about the Lord. Some of you used to have enthusiasm, you used to go on visitation and tell people you just want to find somebody to tell about the Lord. You used to You used to be faithful to church, you're hit and miss. You used to sing the songs of Zion with joy. You just mumble, don't even read, don't even sing sometimes. You used to. Used to. I don't want to be a used to. Used to means you're not you're not doing it anymore. Used to means that you've quit for some reason. Used to means that's in the past. God's not looking for used to 's. He's looking for men and women who will step up and say, Here am I, Lord, send me. He's looking for individuals who will put themselves out front and say, Lord, I want to follow you. Friend, listen. Take advantage of the opportunity afforded you to go forward. Go forward. Some have gotten into the mode of it's good enough. Do you know that's the enemy of the best? Well, that's good enough. That's good enough. It's good enough for our church. It's good enough for No, no. It's not about our church, it's about him. It's about the king. We're not interested in doing just good enough. We want to give our best to the king. It's for the Lord Jesus. Imagine uh well the Lord's let me be here almost ten years now. Imagine if I just went back ten years, I've got every note I've ever written, every s outline I've ever made. I I keep those from literally I've got the very first one in my office. What if I came in here and said, well I'm gonna start recycling these? Some people wouldn't know. You say, why? You don't listen anyhow. Some people wouldn't pay attention, wouldn't get it But but the reality is, you know what that would be? That would be leftovers. That'd be preaching used to stuff. Used to. You're more important than that. Furthermore, he's more important than that. We might preach the same passage. And go back to the same scripture. But I'm not going back yonder and recycling some old sermon and peeling the mold off of it and making it. No, no. Listen, we need fresh bread We need something from God. We need a word from heaven. Need to get with the Lord. And listen, I'm saying, God, God wants you to step it up. You've quit some of you quit reading your Bible. You need to get back to reading your Bible. Some of you have quit really praying and seeking God. You need to get back to praying and really seeking God. Some have ha have just said, well, you know what, I I've got this reason and that reason, and I'm just gonna kinda take it easy. Can I ask you something? How are you gonna feel when you meet the man Who hung on an old rugged cross with nails in his hands and a thorn on it, thorns of uh crown on his head, how are you gonna feel when you say, Now Lord, I just decided to take it easy till you took me home Step it up. Redeeming the time. That means making wise use of every opportunity you got. Making wise use of every opportunity that comes your way. Utilizing every opportunity that God grants you. Making sure that you're living a life that counts for Jesus Christ. Well, if I had time, I'd like to go back to Psalm 78. Ephraim. Psalm 78. 9 says, Ephraim, the unarmed with a bow. Turn back in the day of battle. And you know what it goes on to say? It goes on to say, your fathers crossed the Red Sea. Your fathers went into Canaan. Your fathers saw miracles. Ephraim missed it. You know why they turned back. I mean, they were prepared, they were equipped, they were ready, they were able, and when it came time to do battle, they turned and walked away. I don't want to be a part of a generation that goes back on God. We hear about things God has done. Listen, God is never just a God of the past. He's the God of the present. He wants to do something today. And if you and I turn back in the day of battle, we won't see any victories. If we just sort of step back in the shadows, I can still hear this old pastor saying, you never lead from the shadows. You may not like having to be out front, but somebody's got to lead. And what he was saying is you've got to step it up if you're going to follow the Lord. And dear brother, sister What do you need to step it up in? What area do you need to step it up in spiritually? Where have you just kind of fallen back? Some of you need to get in in your church wholeheartedly. Just need to get in I'm not talking about getting saved or I'm just talking about being committed with your life and influence and saying, hey, I want to be a part of this church. I want to serve God right here. And I'm going to give my best for Christ. We need to step it up. These aren't days for you and I to do less. Remember what Hebrews 10 says, and so much the more. As you see the day approaching. So much the more. If you've ever prayed, pray more. If you've ever read the scriptures, read the scriptures more. If you've ever been a witness, be a witness more. If If you've ever served God, serve God more These are days to be so much the more saints. Not so much the less. Aren't we living in a culture that has moved to the lowest common denominator? Go to a restaurant. The service you get Ten, fifteen years ago, people would have been fired for the service you encounter right now. So much the less. Don't care. But that's just not in a restaurant. That attitude's in the house of God. So much the less. I I you know, I I did enough to salve my conscience. I I I I I did enough to make it look okay. In fact, you know, it's sort of average Well, hey, if average is low, it's still low. We're talking about the Lord Jesus. Who died on a cross for my sin. Every wicked thing I've ever done or will do, the blood of Christ was poured out on Calvary's Hill to make me clean. And he looked he took the punishment of God upon himself. He took the wrath of God upon himself. He took my wrath and he took your wrath. Can we offer him that which is less? Is it Haggai that said go offer that to your governors Take take those things that that that you bring to me, the broken, the blind, the lame, and all of those sacrifices, those those things that just that you can't use them, so you know, just give them to God. He'll do something with them He said, go do that for the governor. Take that to the leader of your people. See how he'll respond. And he says, Am I not a father? A king? Am I not worthy? Sure he is. He's worthy of our humble human vest I'm saying in these days and hour we don't need to turn back. We need to turn it up and go forward and step up for the Lord. Now, friend, that's how you and I can respond to evil. Don't be overcome by it. Don't let it engulf your mind and heart. Don't be the Christian that when you talk to them, all they talk about is how bad it is. We know. You almost feel like saying every once in a while and people say, Well, do you know how bad? You feel like saying, Duh, I live in the same world you do Don't be overcome by evil. Do good. Show people Jesus is real in your life. Show them that he makes a difference. I told you about my friend Jack. When Jack got saved, boy, he showed Jesus all right in his rough, crude way. He was an old coal miner, and when he got born again, them fellas taunted him. They wanted to see him lose his temper and testimony. One of them young fellas came up and punched him right in the mouth, hoping that Jack, because his tendency was he was a fighter. He loved to fight before he got saved. And when he hit Jack, he just stood there. He wasn't big enough to knock a man over. He was just a boy. And Jack just looked at him. He said, if you'd have done that six weeks ago, I'd have killed you. But he said, Jesus saved me. And with tears in his eyes, he preached to that boy and all them other miners standing there listening. You know what he did? He showed him Jesus. He showed them that Jesus was real. Who are you showing Jesus to? Look, you can go out here and do what everybody else is doing, complain and moan, or you can go out there and say, Let me tell you something. There may not be hope down here, but there is one that'll give you hope not only here, but for all of eternity. Wake up. You know the tendency is to go to sleep. That's just the nature. Our nature is we we just sort of back up a little bit and we sort of get comfortable and we sort of Brother Ken Johnson, I was thinking of him, Dr. Hitchens. He told me every ten years you need to shake yourself up Because he said in just that seems that pattern every ten years, you'll get comfortable where you're at. You'll get comfortable what you're doing. Need to shake yourself and wake yourself up and make sure that you're giving your best for God. Walking in the will of God. Need to wake up, Christian. That's your responsibility. Get that Bible, hear the alarm bells, get on your knees and say, Dear Lord, I've gone to sleep. Wake me up and help me stir my heart afresh. Keep looking up. Jesus is coming. And then step it up. You have the Holy Spirit living inside of you. You've got heaven's orders for life on this earth All things that pertain to life and godliness are yours and mine in Jesus Christ. Let's not be like Ephraim and turn back in the day of battle. Let's go forward. And see the victories that only God can give us when we step in obedience to the Lord Jesus Christ. Folks, I believe there's families that can be rescued right here in this community. I believe there's children that can be saved. I believe there's lives that can be changed. But somewhere in us, we've got to say, God, I want you to use me. And I'm not going to stay back here in the shadows, Lord. I'm going to step up and I want you to do something with my life. I want to count for Christ. Evil will go on. Evil will wax worse and worse. But you and I, as God's people, can do something that'll count. For all of eternity. We're not wanting to make a mark just for us. We want to make a mark for him. For him. Now, friend, how's the Lord spoken to your heart? What's the Lord saying to you tonight as a Christian? It may be you're sitting here listening and you're not a Christian, you're not saved, and the call of God to you is to repent. And believe on the Lord Jesus. He wants to save you. Christ died for your sin, according to the Scripture. He was buried and rose again the third day according to the scripture. And he offers both a full and free salvation to whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. You don't need to join Marinatha Baptist Church. You don't need to be in the waters of baptism. You don't need to come to a church house to be born again. You can get born again right where you are, no matter where you are. Cry out to him while there's time, while there's opportunity, while mercy's being extended, mercy's being given out, mercy's being offered, the mercy of God's available. Soon the mercy will cease and judgment will come. Flee to him before the wrath of God comes. And dear brother, sister, oh, take it to heart. Take these scriptures to heart. Listen to the Holy Ghost working in your heart. and let him have his way. Would you stand with me? Pianist, just come play