Take your Bibles, please, and go with me to the book of Philippians again. And I'd like to revisit the text that we were in this morning in verse number 10. Philippians chapter three and verse number ten and I'll invite you to stand with me as we read it Philippians chapter three and verse number ten reads this way that I may know him And the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death. And I want you to take those five little words as we did with the 23rd Psalm, and I want you to add them, and I'm going to read it again in that way, because I believe it helps us see what is being said here in the text. He says that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, that I may know him and the fellowship of his sufferings. That I may know him being made conformable unto his death. Do you realize that everything depends on that I may know him? None of the other can happen if I don't know him. So let's pray and ask the Lord to help us, please. Father, we bow once more. We truly need your help. We stand, Lord, where no one can stand alone. I pray, Father, for the help of the Spirit of God, would you hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up Jesus? Lord, I pray that you would make these truths very real to each of our hearts. Help us, O Lord, to see what is available in this close walk with Thee. Would you draw us near and stir our hearts and just minister, Lord, as only you can. You know the need of these precious people. I pray you'd meet it for your glory and for our eternal good. For it's in Jesus' strong and holy name we pray. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. I'm not going to repeat this morning's study, but I will remind you That we look first at this personal relationship that Paul had with the Lord Jesus. And that personal relationship was really just the beginning of of what God had for him. He said that I may know him. It was the driving passion of his life. It was the directing principle And it also was a delightful possibility. I believe the Christian life can be summed up like this, that I may know him. Anything put in that, in spite of that, or in place of that, is a substitute for what God intended. The Christian life is about knowing the Lord Jesus Christ. But then we come to a dilemma. Because as we're going to see this evening, that not only do we need a personal relationship, but we need something more. in our lives. And that brings us to the second point. I gave you these this morning, but I want you to see the potent reality. And the potent reality is this, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. The power of his resurrection. The greatest demonstration of the power of the Lord Jesus was not when he fed five thousand people with five loaves and two and a handful of fish. The greatest demonstration of power that the Lord Jesus showed on this earth was not when he made blind eyes see or cause deaf ears to hear. It wasn't when he cleansed lepers. He did all of that. And by the way, it took power to do that sort of thing. You just don't make things happen without some sort of power that that is the cause behind it. But yet none of those things, even the raising of Lazarus, was not the greatest demonstration of the power of God. The greatest demonstration took place three days after they nailed him to a cross and placed him in a tomb when he arose by the authority and power of his own name and conquered death, hell, and the grave. Romans chapter 1 says in verse number 4 that he's declared to be the Son of God with power. By the Spirit of holiness and the resurrection from the dead. The resurrection of the Lord Jesus was the greatest display of the mighty power of God in his life. Now Paul says it like this. Paul says that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. The power that brought Jesus from the grave is the power that Paul wanted in his life. You know, Christianity is a gospel of power. The Bible says the gospel is the power of God and of salvation to everyone that believeth. We're saved by blood and we're saved by power. Look at the example in the Old Testament, Israel's brought out of Egypt And they're brought out by the blood of the Lamb. But they're brought out by the power of God, because God parted the Red Sea, destroyed their enemies, and met their every need as they made their way into the wilderness. It was a gospel of blood and power. And the true gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is a powerful gospel. Now, my friend, listen, anything else is a substitute that derives from the devil himself. Oh, I know God will save anybody and He'll take them in any shape, but He won't leave them like He found them The Bible says if any man's in Christ, what is he? He's a new creature. The Lord doesn't do just a rehab job, he does a regeneration work. He doesn't just patch up something that's old. He makes it brand new. And that's the power of God. That takes the power of God. Now I I remember reading somewhere about someone boasting that communism would put a new suit on every man And the saved person who heard that statement said, yes, but it takes Jesus to put a new man in that suit. And it does take the power of Jesus. It takes the power of the resurrection. And Paul said, look, I'm interested in knowing him. Now remember that little word and is a connecting word. It connects that thought and that truth that's been stated with the truth that's to follow. And so I want you to see tonight that That if I if I know him and the power of the resurrection from the dead, the power of God comes through the personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. There's no cheap substitute to the power of God. There's no back door to getting the power of God. Look over here in the book of Acts with me real quick. Acts chapter number eight. And there was a man who the Bible says believed, and uh this man was wanting power, he was interested in power. But he went about it the wrong way. In Acts chapter number eight, I want you to see. Well, let's just start reading here in verse number nine. Acts chapter 8 and verse number 9, the Bible says, But there was a certain man called Simon. Which before time in the same city used sorcery, and bewitched the people of Samaria, giving out that himself was some great one. To whom they all gave heed from the least of the greatest saying, look what they said. This man is the great power of God. And to him they had regard because that of a long time he had bewitched them with sorceries. Now stop there just a minute and know this that yes, God is a God of power, but the devil has power too. You need to remember that. The devil has power too. And the power that Simon had was the power of the devil, although it was attributed to the power of God. And he held the people in bondage and blindness because of these demonstrations of power. Verse 12 says, But when they believed Philip. Preaching the things concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. Then Simon himself believed also. And when he was baptized, he continued with Philip and wondered, beholding The miracles and signs which were done. Now, Simon encounters a different kind of power. It's a power he wasn't familiar with The power that he was used to didn't do the same things that this power did. By the way, the devil's power always tends towards destruction. God's power always tends towards delivering. These were miracles and signs. The things that these men were enabled to do was beneficial. The devil doesn't do anything beneficial. The devil does things that may baffle us, but he doesn't do things that benefit us. And so this man stood wondering. In verse 14, now when the apostles which were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John. Who, when they were come down, prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Ghost. For as yet he was fallen upon none of them, only they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Then laid their hands on them and they received the Holy Ghost. Now I want to stop right there and say there's a great deal of the book of Acts that you need to understand in the context of its occurrence. The book of Acts is a time of transition. There's no need today for the laying on of hands and praying for the Holy Ghost. Because the Bible tells us in this dispensation that everyone who believes receives the Spirit of God. And if you don't receive the Spirit of God, you are none of His. So it's an instantaneous work of God at the moment of salvation. But when he saw this, verse 18, Simon saw that through the laying on of the apostles' hands of the Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money. Saying, Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay hands he may receive the Holy Ghost. Now, Simon wanted power. But he didn't want power like the Apostle Paul wanted power. He wanted power. To do what he did in the previous time, and that is hold the people under his sway, to retain the position he had before he believed. To go back to that place of being recognized as one, you see, when he met the Lord Jesus, the power of the devil was stripped away And then he recognized that these men had the power of God, and he thought that the way to get it would be through money. I want you to know something today. There's a power to be had, but there's only one way to receive it. There's a power to be given to the people of God, and it's not to wow and mesmerize nor hold people under sway. It's a power that produces a transformed life so that Jesus is clearly seen in the way we live and act and speak and move. And listen, that power comes through a personal relationship. You can't purchase this power. There's no price tag on it. The price tag is a personal relationship with the Lord. Remember That I may know him. Paul said, I want to know him in such a way that his power rests on my life. I want to know him in such a way that his hand is working in my heart I want to know him in such a way that others might be able to see that the Lord Jesus lives in me. I want you to see this power he goes on, and look what Peter said unto him: Thy money perish with thee. Because thou hast thought that the gift of God may be purchased with money. Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter, for thy heart is not right in the sight of God. Now there's a lot of debate over whether this is a saved man or not. But the Bible says very clearly here that he had no partner lot in this matter, this matter of the power of God. It said that his heart was not right in the sight of God, in light of this thing of the power of God. And Peter says to him, Repent therefore of this thy wickedness and pray God in verse 22. If perhaps the thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee. Peter says, You need to get this right. The power of God does not come through purchasing. The power of God comes through walking faithfully with the Lord Jesus and having a personal relationship where you let Him change your life And my friend, it don't happen overnight, it don't happen instantaneously. It's a work of faithfulness in the presence of the Lord as He transforms you and I I want you to see the potent realities, this power. Paul said, Lord, I want to know something of the power. Now, can we just go back there a moment to Philippians chapter 3 and think about who this is writing this text? This is the Apostle Paul who's already given us several New Testament books. This is the Apostle Paul who's preached in various places. and watch many come to Christ and believe and be born again. This is the Apostle Paul, whom I believe at this point has started many, many churches and is at the latter end of his life. This is the Apostle Paul who knew something of the power of God. But please listen to me. He not only knew something about the power of God, but he knew there was more to know. He understood there was more to experience. There was more. And I'm not talking about the Charismania foolishness. I'm talking about knowing something of the delivering power of God working in his life, setting him free from that old body of flesh that he lived in. Romans chapter number seven. Maybe we ought to read that together. Go back there with me real quick. In Romans chapter number 7, Paul lays out the dilemma that he found himself in, that probably everybody sitting here that's honest will find themselves in from time to time. Here was his dilemma. He says in verse number 18, I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. You've been there? You understand that? Your flesh, there's nothing. Listen, it's a lie of the devil to say there's a spark of good in every man. There's a spark of hell in every man. But it's a lie of the devil to say there's a spark of good in every man. He said, Paul said, there's nothing good in my flesh. He said, I see nothing good in my flesh. He says, for to will is present with me. In other words, he said, I have a desire to please the Lord. I have a desire to do right. The will of my heart is, God, I want to please you. Let me say this: if you don't have that, you need to make sure you know the Lord. But if you know the Lord, you've got that in there. God put that in you the moment you got saved. To will is present. You have in you a deep, deep desire to please the Lord. You want to please Him with all you being. Like Paul said in verse 22 of the text, I delight in the law of God after the inward man. Let's go back up. He says, but how to perform that which is good. I find not. You know what he's lacking? You can write there in the margin of your Bible, he's lacking power. He's lacking power. He had the desire, he just didn't have the power. He had the want to, he just didn't know where the ability to. You ever had a desire, but not the ability? You can want to a lot of things, but if you just can't, you just can't. Paul said, I want to, I have the desire to will is present, but how to perform it I find not. He had gotten to such a dilemma that he wanted to please the Lord, but he found out that he just couldn't on his own. Look what he said Read on in the text, he said, for the good that I would, I do not Brother, sister, can I ask you a question? You ever wanted to do good and just didn't? Let's be honest. Look what he said. He said, For the good, for the good that I would I do not, but the evil which I would not That I do. What's the problem? He don't have power. He needs the power. He needs some power. And he knows this. It's not in my flesh. How many of you have learned that determination don't cut it? You can be as determined as you want to, but you'll still fail. How many of you have said, like me, have said, Lord, I'm going to do better and you did worse? How many of you said now, Lord, I'm determined now, I'm determined, I'm going to do right, and you do you do the opposite. Why? Because you need power. And it's power not in your flesh. Paul said, in my flesh, there's nothing in me that's going to get this done. That's what I want you to see. There's nothing in you that'll get this done. There's nothing you can muster. There's nothing you can decide. There's nothing you can determine. It's not about you. He said, I know that in my flesh there dwells no good thing. Now look what he said. Once you skip down, he comes to this conclusion. It's almost one of desperation, verse 24. Oh wretched man that I am. That's where you gotta get. Where you realize that I'm a wretch. I mean, I I I I am a wretch in my flesh. Listen, we are all Depraved beyond understanding. He said, I'm a wretch. I am a wretch. He didn't say no, I'm pretty good. Listen, as long as you're pretty good, you're not going to know anything about power As long as you're almost good or okay or s you know, I I c I I I'm not as bad as as the preacher's saying. Well, actually, we're much worse. Oh, wretched man that I am. And then look what he asked. He asks this question. He says, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? Paul said, I'm a prisoner in a body that I want to be set free from. I'm chained in a body of death. This flesh, by the way, listen to me, dear Christian You might the devil might be whipping you with this. Your flesh will not be redeemed until you're redeemed in glory. You live in an unredeemed flesh. Your body is is is is just what it is. It's rotten, it's it's wretched, and and it's a body of death And he said, who shall deliver me? Is there a remedy for this? Is the Christian life just supposed to be uh a matter of willing and not doing, of desiring and not performing? Is it all about this inward thing that that just can't somehow make it to the outside? You ever see a little chick hatch? I don't know why I was thinking about this the other day we hatched some little ones. The first set we hatched when Sarah was little, and uh there was this one little chick that couldn't get out of his egg. Buddy, he was scratching and kicking and trying to, and and he couldn't, he just couldn't get out. He was just too weak and he wore himself out And we did something. I knew better than to do, but when your little girl stands there crying, you do things you normally wouldn't do. And so I intervened and I I I took and I broke his little shell and I started m messing around there and I pulled some of the the shell away and and and finally he he kicked free a little bit and he and he just sat there And he was messed up for the rest of his life because that process of breaking free is what makes them strong and activates things in their body that That that makes him grow up to be healthy and and he just never was healthy. He never was normal. Now he lived. He he lived for several years He could jump, he couldn't walk, but he could he would bounce around. I don't know if he's half rabbit or what got into him, but he was a weird little little bird. But but my point is this. He was bound up in something. Now life was in there. He had life. There was life in that shell. We could see that that egg. It was moving. We could see one little hole had been pricked where he was trying to break his way out. We could see that life was in there, but he was bound up. He was still in bondage. He was like Simon, who was in that that gall of bitters. He was still in bondage. He wasn't set free. He was like the Apostle Paul who said, I have a desire, but I just can't perform. I have a will, but I just can't do. I need something. I need help. I need power. Who's going to set me free from this body of death? Listen closely to what he says in verse 25. I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Look where he got to. He got to the place that he realized, hey, Paul, you can't muster it. Paul, you can't produce it. Paul, you don't have it in you. But Jesus Christ does. There is a power available in the living person of the Lord Jesus that can make desires accomplishments, make your will something you perform, and I'm here to tell you that power is available to every born-again child of God. It's the power of the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead I want you to see this potent reality. Paul got to the place he understood. That's why he said, I want to know him. I want to know him in that freeing power of the resurrection from the dead. I want to know something of God's power working in my life. Can I ask you something, dear brother or sister? Is the power of God working in your life? Is the power of God being demonstrated in your daily direction and living? So much of Christianity is watered down and diluted today that it don't take much to be a Christian by today's standard. Today's definition: you can just about do anything you want to do and still name the name. But I want you to know something. There's more to this than naming a name, it's getting the nature. Of the Lord Jesus in us that makes us new people. It's not a matter of you just putting your nose to the grindstone and pushing on through. It's not a matter of you just gritting your teeth and just bearing it and getting through it and trying to fight it. It's understanding that that again You're you're you're a wretch without Christ. You are without without him you are incapable and unable. But yet in him is the power that he makes available so that you can have victory through the Lord Jesus. It's resurrection power. What Paul understood is what I need to understand. Romans 6, 7 and 8. Spell it out and I'm not going to go back there, but you you read those three chapters and you find out that what you have is the resurrection power of God working in your life as a Christian, setting you free from this body of sin and death, and enabling you to live so as to please the Lord. I want you to note three things about this potent reality. Number one, it's a divine provision. It's a divine provision. God made a provision. He made a provision. He said, I want you to have this. You need this. You're not going to make it without it. I like what Philippians 2. 13 says. It says, For it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. You know who it is working in you? It's God. You can't take any credit for it. If you want to be a better Christian, it's God working in you to be a better Christian If you want to be something that pleases the Lord and you've got that desire, God put the desire there, and it's not only He that puts the desire there, but He's the one that gives the ability to perform. Now, friend, listen, it takes the power of God to live for Christ, and He's made it very clear that He's made a divine provision. You imagine getting in your car and trying to push that thing down the road when you got a V8 motor with 200 some horsepower underneath the hood? Wouldn't that be silly? Jason, pull up here in that SUV and and uh man he's out of breath. He's blood red and he's sweating and you say, How you doing? Well I'm doing pretty good. Boy, that was hard getting that thing up that hill But I did it. And they get out there and he he tells the family, get in, get in, we're going home. And he opens the door, and here he goes. He starts pushing. And wouldn't it be a relief to him for someone to say, Let me show you somebody? Put put the key in that thing. Fire it off. You hear that? Put it in gear. Well, he'd take out of here, buddy. You'd need the police to catch him then. You know why? Because there's a power there What I'm trying to say, brother, sister, a lot of times what we're doing is trying to push something God never told us we could push. We're trying to perform in such a way that you don't have the power to perform. But there is an engine that God's given. It's the Spirit of God. It's the power of the resurrection. He said, I want you to know it's God that's working in you to will and to do at His good pleasure. There's power available. It's a divine provision. I think it's good when someone says, Preacher, I can't live the Christian life. You know why? Because you can't. But Jesus in you can. See the difference? A lot of times we think, well, I I'm gonna do my best. Well, that's awful wearisome, isn't it? You ever get tired of doing your best? Because your best just don't get it done. You say, but I I'm gonna I I'm just gonna do all that I can do. Well do all that you can do, and you'll find out that it still isn't enough. That body of death cannot be broken free from apart from resurrection life. But it's the power of the resurrection that sets a believer free so that we can live in such a way that glorifies the Lord. It's a divine provision. It's God that's given us power. Let me say quickly, number two, it's a delivering power. It's a delivering power. Look over in Philippians 4. 13. By the way, I don't believe the chapters and verses are inspired, but I sure see the hand of the Lord putting them together. These 13 are powerful in the book of Philippians, just a side note. You study them out. But Philippians 4:13 says, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Here is a delivering power. You see Paul in Romans chapter number 7 saying, Who shall deliver me? And you see him in Philippians 4 saying, I can do all things. What made the difference? Resurrection power. That I may know him and the power of his resurrection. Paul said, I want to know that power that can help me do all things. And by the way, you look at what he's talking about doing. He's talking about rejoicing in need and being content in want. And being abased and being abounding and being hungry and being full and suffering need, he said, Look, I can do all things through Christ. He had found out that no matter the challenge, Jesus Christ was sufficient. I hope you are learning that. I hope we're learning that. And by the way, here Paul is near the end of his life, and he's wanting to learn more about that. Because every day is going to be a new call or a fresh call for power Every day there's going to be a new demand. Every day there's going to be a new challenge. Every day as you walk with the Lord, there's going to be new obstacles. There's going to be something you've never faced before. And you come to learn that the Lord Jesus is able in every situation. Nothing is too large. Nothing is too big. Nothing is impossible. He's able, and that's where we've got to get in our Christian life, recognizing the Lord is able. So we see this delivering power. By the way, back in Romans chapter number 7, verse 24, Paul discovered it. He said, I thank God through Jesus Christ my Lord. And by the way, there's a period there. So you need to stop and put that sentence as a whole and understand that he's saying, look, you know who delivered me, who set me free from this body of death? Paul didn't live his Christian life constantly wanting and not performing. He learned that the power of the Lord Jesus would enable him to do what it was he desired to do. And where I've got to get and where you have to get in our Christian life is being able to say, now Lord, I can't do this without you. Lord, I want to do this, but you're going to have to help me. I remember when my heart first got right with God, I wanted to witness, but you you I can't I can't make you understand how backward I was. And to talk to a stranger, I'd rather jump off a cliff. And I remember, I remember battling that, and boy, my heart would get exercised about speaking to someone about the Lord, and I'd get under conviction and be challenged. And and I would say, now I'm going to do it today, and man, I'd be weak as a mouse. And I couldn't do it And then I would determine I'd feel bad. You know how it is. You feel guilty because you didn't obey the Lord. And you go somewhere and you pray and you try and you say, now Lord, I'm going to do it next time. Next time it didn't happen. When you get to the place, you simply say, now Lord, I can't do this. But if you'll help me, I will. And isn't it something how he'll come along and help you? And you'll scare yourself. You'll scare yourself because you know it's not you, it's him in you. You know it's the Lord helping you. You know it's his power that's that's moving in your life and enabling you. And that's true in everything, be it witnessing or be it resisting temptation. or being being faithful to the Lord or whatever it may be, the challenge may be, when you and I get to the place where we say, Now Lord, I can't do this without you. You've got to help me, Lord, I'm leaning hard upon you Lord, and listen, you'll find out there's power available that the living Lord lives inside of you and that he's able to do things that you never imagined he could, and he does them and gets the glory for them Because it's delivering power. I can do all things through Christ which strength me. We need to stop trying to water down Christianity. To be in what man can do and get back to a Christianity that's about what God can do. God can change a person's life and set them free from the vilest of things. He sure can. When my dad got saved, God took his desire for alcohol away. God did it. All the other things you'd tried didn't work. All the fussing and carrying on that my mother did didn't do it. All the guilt and shame of all the things that that brought in his life, they didn't do it. But I'll tell you, Jesus did it. And not only did he take a desire for it, he put a hatred in his heart for it. Which I believe was a step above. And what I'm saying tonight is that that that that individual, maybe uh maybe there's someone maybe here or or listening and saying, well, preacher, I I just I could not live the Christian life. I would be a Christian, but I I just can't live it. Well, get in line with the rest of us. We can't either. But the living Lord in you can. And when we get to the place that we say, now Lord, I need you. I can't do that. And look, you may have tendencies, by the way, we all have tendencies. In the wrong way. It may be a temper, it may be a sharp tongue, it may be a gossip tongue, it may be wicked mind, it it it could be a multitude of things that that that you have a tendency to and you say, I just can't beat it. Well that's true. You can't beat it. In your flesh there dwells no good thing. But if you know the Lord Jesus Christ, he can beat it in you. He can give you the victory. We need to stop excusing sin just simply based on, well, that's just me That's not you if you know the Lord. Now it may be who you were before him, but when he showed up, you've got an ally. You've got someone powerfully helping you. You've got someone on the inside of you that will stand up and say, hey, he can't do it, but I sure can. I remember getting in trouble with a bunch of boys one time and they were gonna beat us up after school and I remember my brother. I was never so thankful for my big brother. And boy when he came on the scene all that thought taught thinking of being beat up was gone out the window And and in fact, you know how pride makes you. You're kind of foolish. Then you start taunting and you say, bring it on. Just come on now. I mean, man, I was looking for a place to hide until I realized he was home. And when that six foot four, nearly 300-pound boy opened the door, I said, oh, thank you, Jesus. My head's not going to get smashed today. And you know what I'm trying to say is you've got an elder brother. That's what the book calls him. We have an elder brother, the Lord Jesus Christ. He lives inside of you. You're no match for the devil, and I'm no match for the devil. I'm no match for my flesh and you're no match for your flesh. But I'm here to tell you there's a conqueror, and his name's Jesus. He lives inside of you. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in this world. Church, you need to understand that there is a power available. It is a delivering power, a power that sets us free. Let me close with this: it has a definite purpose. This power has a definite purpose. Paul recorded it back here in a very familiar verse, Galatians 2. 20. He said, I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. See, some would want you to believe that the power of God is meant to give you a particular feeling. If you want a particular feeling, go hang on to an electric fence. If you want to tingle on the inside, just grab 110. If you're seeking some sort of emotional higher buzz, That's not what the power of God's about. It's never been intended. The power of God is so that Christ can live in you, so that your body becomes his temple, and that temple becomes a blessing to this world. He wants to live in you so that your hands will do the work of Jesus. Your mouth will speak his words. Your person will represent his presence in somebody's life. It's about Christ living in you. That is the purpose. Paul said in Philippians 1:21, for me to live is Christ. For me to live is Christ. He said, I'm going to live my life in such a way that Christ is seen. That ought to be our heart. Listen, when you go to work tomorrow, they don't need to see you. And listen, if the same's true of me, they don't need to see me because all we are are flawed individuals. But we've got a perfect Savior. And they need to see him. When we live among our family and we live in our community and we go about our business, look, folks don't need to see us. And because the truth is we we all are made of the same stuff and it's not very impressive. But they need to see the Lord. Or for a revival of a Christianity that's supernatural in nature, that bears the mark of this is Christ and not the individual. That this is the Lord. It's the Lord's doing. Don't you long to see that and be able to say, this is the work of the Lord? It's the Lord's doing. It's marvelous in our eyes. He's the one that's doing this. Our lives should be a demonstration of the mighty power of the resurrection from the dead. You see, because that's just what happens when you get saved. He brings up a dead man from the grave. He makes someone who once was dead in sin to be alive in Jesus Christ. He takes a soul that's lost and hopeless and without God. And on their way to hell, and makes a new creature out of them and makes them an individual in whom he lives. Now, folks, you you can't force that. It has to be the work of God. That's why don't forget what it said, that I may know him. Preacher, where's that power? It's right there in those first five words. That I may know him. I personally believe there's nothing that ails us that getting to know him won't cure. There's nothing that plagues us or troubles us that getting to know him won't help. You say, but preacher, I'm battling with this. Get to know him. Just get to know him. Get close to him. But preacher, I struggle with it. Well, just get to know him. And I'm not trying to oversimplify things, but yet in a way I am. Because the Paul warned the Corinthian believers, the most carnal individuals on earth at that time, that you have been moved away from the simplicity that's in Jesus Christ. Look, this isn't rocket science. This isn't complicated It's wonderful, it's true, it's powerful that Jesus Christ lives in his people and changes them as they walk with him. That we may know him. And the more you know him, the more like him you become. The better you know him, the more of his power is demonstrated in your life. Moses had a shine on his face after forty days in the presence of God. It wasn't the atmosphere that changed Moses. It was his association with the Lord. You can hang around church until you grow roots in pews. You can wear a spot out where you walk in, sit down, and rub your feet. You can do all of that, and yet not it's not about the atmosphere. It's about your association. Do you know him? And when you know him, he's the one that begins to change us. A pastor told me years ago, he said, when the Lord gives you a vision of what he wants you to do as a leader, he said, write it down. Because he said in ten years you'll be one of them. I thought, what do you mean? Well, I've since learned. Your associations affect everything about you. And listen, what I'm trying to say is that I need to be so associated with the Lord. That I know something of his power working in my life. Because you won't stay bound up in that body of flesh. And be close to the Lord at the same time. You won't stay in bondage to sin and be in sweet fellowship with the Lord. His power will do an operation in your heart and life and make a new creature out of you. Now the good news is tonight he's working on all of us. We're all being set free. Salvation is a very definite moment of time But there's a process of salvation that's ongoing. I'm saved, but I'm also being saved. You understand? I'm saved right this moment My soul is eternally secure in the precious blood of the Lord Jesus. But I'm being saved at this very moment. He's working in me mightily. He's doing those things in my heart that sets me free for me and it prepares me for him. I'm being saved. And one day I I'm going to be the the product is going to be complete and the job's going to be done And we'll be at home in glory with the Lord forever. And that's when we see him, we shall be like him. Now, friend, what about the power of God? Do you know Him and the power of His resurrection? This is a potent reality, we all can. We all can. You can know him just as real as Paul knew him. You can know this power as as as As relevant as it was in the Apostle Paul's life, you can know that in your life because here's the thing about it. The basic need of man is the same no matter what culture or time he's in. Your greatest struggle is sin. That's the greatest problem we've got. We can talk about political problems and financial problems and physical problems, but the biggest problem, the greatest problem, is our sin. There must be an answer for our sin. And just as Jesus is the answer for our sin and salvation, he's the answer for our sin and sanctification, because it is the Lord Jesus and his power that sets me free from me. I love that song they sing. Lord, you took me out of Egypt. Now take Egypt out of me. You know, he got them out of Egypt just like that. Brought them through, put them on the other side. Took a long time to get Egypt out of here. You know what process we're in right now? We're in the process of getting Egypt took out of us so that we'll be like the Lord. Oh, friend, what a potent reality we find. That I may know him. Can I urge you to walk so near him this week that you find power? You find the resurrection power of the Lord Jesus working in you. The song says, I'm learning to lean, learning to lean, learning to lean on Jesus. Finding more power than I ever dreamed. I'm learning to lean on him. Are you leaning on him? Boy, there's power there. He'll just lean. You'll just lean. Father, please take your word and help us.