To open to Revelation seven. You can be seated, please. Thank you. Revelation seven And we're going to look at these verses together, the whole chapter, God willing. But in Revelation chapter 7, we take a break. In looking at the seals. We've already seen six seals unloosed. We're now in the s waiting the seventh. But it's not happening just yet. God has interjected something here. Some call it a parenthesis. But it's here in Revelation 7. Would you look at these words with me? Revelation 7 verse 1 says, And after these things, after that sixth seal has been broken. I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree. And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal of the living God. And he cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea. Saying, hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we've sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads. And I heard the number of them which were sealed. And there were sealed a hundred and forty and four thousand of all the tribes of the children of Israel. Of the tribe of Judah, we're sealed 12,000. Of the tribe of Reuben, we're sealed 12,000. Of the tribe of Gad, we're seal Hill twelve thousand Of the tribe of Asher were sealed 12,000. Of the tribe of Neptilim were sealed 12,000. Of the tribe of Manassas were sealed 12,000 Of the tribe of Simeon were sealed twelve thousand Of the tribe of Levi were sealed 12,000. Of the tribe of Issachar were sealed 12,000. Of the tribe of Zebulun were sealed 12,00 Of the tribe of Joseph were sealed 12,000. Of the tribe of Benjamin were sealed 12,000. After this I beheld, and lo a great multitude, which no man could number, of all nations and kindreds, and people and tongues, stood before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes. And palms in their hands, and cried with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God, which sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb. And all the angels stood round about the throne and about the elders and the four beasts and fell before the throne on their faces and worshiped God, saying, Amen Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be unto our God forever and ever. Amen And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these which are arrayed in white robes? And whence came they? And I said unto him, Sir, thou knowest. And he said to me, These are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore are they before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple And he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them. They shall know excuse me, they shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more, neither shall the sun lighten on them, nor any heat For the lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. What a parenthesis in the middle of judgment. I want to preach the Lord helping me from this chapter on God's saving grace during the tribulation. God 's saving grace during the tribulation. Dear Father, once more, we just want to humbly ask, help us, Lord. You've taught us this book as Spirit should discern. Lord, we realize without the working of the Spirit of God, our time is vain. But Lord, we trust that you'll work both as you help the preacher and the hearer I ask, Lord, that you might have great liberty to do what you desire in this assembly. Be glorified in our midst. May our eyes be firmly fixed on the Lord Jesus. For it's in his mighty name we pray. And God's people again said. Amen. Well, here we get a glimpse of what God's going to do spiritually during the tribulation period. Now, I want to remind you tonight that as we study the Word of God, we must let the Word of God define our theology. It is the Bible that tells us what to believe, not we who tell our Bibles what we believe. The Bible tells me what I am to believe because it is the truth. And here in Revelation chapter 7, we're told about God's working on this earth during the tribulation period. I want you to notice three things. I want you to know this, note the stillness in the first three verses. I want you to note the seal in the following verses 4 to 8. And then I want you to look at the saved, beginning in verse number 9 to the very end. The stillness, the sealed, and the saved. You'll notice in the first part of this chapter that there was stillness. Look at the sentinels in verse number one. Four angels standing on the four corners of the earth. These angels are bringing judgment. These angels are standing as God's orders. They're standing at God's orders. They're standing to God's orders. They're going to do exactly what he tells them to do. They're standing there as sentinels of judgment. They're ready to execute God's plan. I remind you again that the tribulation is going to be an awful time of God's outpouring of judgment on this wicked world. It's going to be a time like no other. And here we see the sentinels of that judgment standing at their post. But then notice the stillness, he said They held the four winds of the earth that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree. It's going to be an eerie stillness. You ever gone out before a storm and the air just be weird? I don't know if you know what I'm talking about. But there's just a an eerie stillness. You could always tell when a big storm was coming because the wind for a time would stop blowing. That was unusual up there. But it would all of a sudden get still, and you could just everybody be like, oh no, we're getting a bad one. Because it's quiet and it's still and and there's an eerie stillness. That's what's happening on the earth. There's not a blade of grass blowing. There's not a leaf on a tree moving. There's not a breeze coming off the water anywhere. It is complete stillness. I want you to notice something that it's as if God's giving man a reprieve. Right in the middle of judgment, God's just holding back for just a moment. That wrath that has been being poured out and that judgment that has been falling, God is just stealing the scene for just a few moments. Now, I do believe that during this time the man of sin is going to take credit for it. He's going to say, my policies are working. He's going to seize greater power and be able to say, look at how how well I'm running things. Look at how good I'm handling things. Everything seems to be turning around. Little does he know, right in the midst of his crying, peace, peace, there's going to come sudden and swift destruction. But notice this, that stillness. And again, I believe it emphasizes that God is still sovereign over the affairs of this earth. But he's still ruling. Yes, judgment's falling, but God is still on the throne. In fact, every chapter from what I've gathered Every chapter in the Revelation is a declaration that God's still God. No matter what the man of sin is doing, no matter what the devil's doing, no matter what wicked men are doing, God says, I'm still in control. And when God said, wind don't blow, the wind don't blow. When God says hold back, he says, stop, he said, I wanted there to be stillness over the whole earth. The earth bows at his command. The devil may have a time of ascendancy, but God is still God, and he forever shall be. Then I want you to notice the seal. We're introduced to it here because it says in verse number two that he saw this another angel ascended from the east. Notice this, having the seal of the living God. And he cried with the loud voice of the four angels to whom it was given to hurt the earth and sea, saying, Hurt not the earth, nor the sea, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we've sealed the servants of God in their foreheads. Now here we see the Lord's going to do something rather unusual. He's going to put his protective mark. Now, there's no need in us speculating tonight over what that mark is. You know why? Because the Bible don't tell me The Bible doesn't say a word about what it is. It doesn't even say if it's visible to man, but it does say it's the seal of the living God. And God's going to put that seal on their foreheads, and he's going to mark them, and he's going to say, they're mine, don't touch them. It's going to be a seal of invincibility until God is through. All of these 144,000 will have a special commission from God. They're involved in this great program of God's saving grace during the tribulation. And by the way, let me just say this: God's saving grace will go on working through the tribulation time. We often relegate saving grace to a little space of time and say, well, it only works here. Can I report to you that those Old Testament saints got in by grace? You know what New Testament saints get in by? They get in by grace. Do you know what tribulation saints get in by? They get in by grace. Let me say this, if anybody gets in, you get in by the grace of God. We're not saved three ways, two ways, ten ways, but one way. For by grace are you saved through faith That not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. Listen, beloved, tonight we're all saved, and every man who's saved is saved by the grace of God. These 144,000 have a great part to play in that, and God seals them and says you can't touch them. You cannot touch them until their work is done. I want you to quickly go to the seal, and I want you to see these sealed in verses 4 to 8. I'm not going to read it again, but I do want you to note the specifics here. We're told very clearly that 144 ,000, and please underline this in your Bible, of all the tribes Of the children of Israel. Please note that. That's pretty clear, isn't it? Of all the tribes of the children of Israel. You say, who are those hundred and forty-four thousand? Well the JWs claimed at one time it was them. Until their organization got above 144,000. Then they said we've got to restructure this thing because we we we got too many going and not enough to fit, I mean too many going and not enough places to fit the bill. And so they said, those hundred and forty-four thousand are the elite of the Jehovah's Witness who are going to rule and reign with Christ on earth. And I'm shaking my head saying, where in the Bible does it say that? The Bible says, of all the tribes of the children of Israel. If we'd just let the Bible speak its sense, it always would make sense, and we wouldn't go around seeking for other sense And coming up with nonsense. Because that's what it is. It's nonsense. The truth of the matter is we know who they are. He goes on to tell us of these twelve tribes, and he names them and says, twelve thousand sealed. Twelve thousand sealed. Twelve thousand sealed. I want to remind you that this seal is very important. Thirteen times from verses four to eight, the word sealed is used Won't you notice that? 13 times. Reckon God's trying to tell you something? You know, we read the Bible and we think, oh, that repetition is so boring. Or that repetition is so aggravating. Or that repetition, why does he not just say they're all sealed? Shorten the story, they're all sealed. You know why? Because he wants you to know it's important that they're sealed. It's important that all 144,000 are sealed. You say, what does that seal do? That seal provides the protection of God. Now you've got to remember something. Tribulation times are going to be bloody times. It's going to be a time where death is going to be a common occurrence. It's going to be a time where so many people are going to die. And the devil is going to wreak havoc. And you're going to see, this earth is going to see what it looks like when the devil gets free reign. I'll tell you, he is marked. What did Jesus say? I am come. This is what Jesus said. I am come that they might have life and that more abundantly. But what does the thief do? The devil. He cometh not but for to steal, kill, and what? Destroy. That's all he does That's his MO. Where you see that work, you know that's the devil. And the the tribulation period is going to reveal that unleashing, if you will, or unloosing of that killing and stealing and devastation. But yet there's going to be 144,000 that the devil can't touch. There's going to be 144,000 the man of sin can't touch. There's going to be 144,000 that men on this earth can't touch. They can't do anything to them. They're not going to be able to take their life. Why? God's protecting them. Can I remind you something? You're not through till God's through And when you're got when go when God's through, you're through. But not until God's through. If God's not through, you're not through. I don't care what men do, I don't care what the devil does, it don't matter What what what all this listen, it does not matter if God's not through, you're not through, because he has a way of making his people invincible until he's done. These people are sealed. These 144,000 are sealed until their task is complete. You know what that tells me? That tells me once again God's in charge. He's still in charge. He's still on the throne. He's still calling the shots. He's still got his people. Listen, some of God's little children are scared to death of what's about to happen next. We live in that age. We live in that age of fear. We're afraid. We hear what's coming. We read our Bibles and we know what's coming. We understand that there are dark days gathering on the horizon somewhere in the near future that are going to be poured out on this earth. And we begin to think, what if, or what if, or what if? But can I remind you that you are protected, you are kept by the power of God? The Bible says you're kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. God 's people are at the whim of the devil. You are not like an old cat will play with a mouse and then finally put it out of its misery That's not the picture. You're a child of God. You have the Holy Ghost on inside of you. You're sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise. God's sovereign over your life. He rules in the affairs of men. He's the one on the throne. And what comes your way, comes your way by permission. of the Heavenly Father. Know this tonight. God is able to keep his own. And these hundred and forty-four thousand are going to walk through the landmine of the tribulation and be safely delivered simply because God put a seal on them. I think of those those three Hebrew boys they threw in the fire. You can't burn God's people if you don't want them burnt. You cannot burn God's people if he don't want them burnt. You you think about all the devils tried to do to God's children and God's intervened. Oh listen, I believe the devil was clapping his hands when all those babies were killed down yonder in Egypt. That wasn't until that one cried over yonder in the bull rushes, and all of a sudden he realized one got away. Well, it was the one that needed to get away because he's the one that's going to get them out. It was God protecting his own God has a masterful way of looking after his people. No matter what they walk through or go through or go up against or face, God in his infinite wisdom still protects his own. Hallelujah for that. And these 144,000 are going to come sailing through simply because the God of heaven has sealed them with that seal and said, they're safe. Don't touch them. Let me say a word to the skeptics. Many would say the Jews are a scattered people. Their tribes are unrecognizable. Their records are destroyed How in the world are we going to get all of those tribes together? How in the world are we going to find the 12,000 out of each and every one of those tribes? I'll tell you what you're trying to do. You're trying to solve Or find an earthly explanation for something heaven's already got solution. You don't have to pick them, God did You don't have to select them, God will. And don't you think for a minute God's forgotten who you are, where you are, where you belong. He knows exactly who are his Paul reminded young Timothy in 2 Timothy chapter 2, the Lord knoweth them that are his. The Lord knoweth them that are his. Don't you fret and worry and think, well, how's all that going to be? And that's one of the dangers of studying revelation. We want answers to which only God has. We've got questions that we and and a lot of it's just curiosity. But if it's important, God's told us, and if God hadn't told us, it's not important And so we need to remember that God has the answer. He's going to assimilate. He's going to bring together. He's going to raise up the 12,000 from each one of those tribes. They're sealed. You imagine what that's going to be like? You say, what are they doing? Well, I believe the next verses reveal it Because John sees something. Verse number nine, he said, I beheld, and lo a great multitude. Notice what they're doing, which no man could number of all nations, kindreds, people, tongues, stood before the throne, and they stood before the Lamb, clothed with white robes and palms in their hands. Every people group is represented here. Nobody's missing. Every group from around the world. You imagine that Every group, every people, he tells us very clearly they're all there. Not all of the people, but a representation of all those people are going to be there in heaven. They're standing before the Lamb. And I want you to notice they seem to occupy a very special place. They occupy a special place because they're standing there distinct. From that other group we found in Revelation chapter 4, who were worshiping around the throne. These are standing before the throne. I want you to see the distinction, please. These individuals are occupying a special place. Who are they? I want you to notice their salvation. Verse 10, they cried with a loud voice, saying Salvation to our God. You know what they're doing? They're praising God for salvation. That's what they're doing. They're praising God for salvation. They're saying salvation to our God which sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb. They're not only praising God for his grace and salvation, but they're praising God for his government. They're saying he's sitting on the throne. He's sitting on the throne. Not only has he saved us by his grace, but he's governed things from the throne. Now remember where they come from. I'm going to say more about this. in this footnote that's added, but I want you to notice they've come out of tribulation. They've come out of that great chaos. They've come out of that great reign of the man of sin. They've come by the way of death. They've been martyred. They've been put to death for their faith. But now they're at the throne. And they're not mourning over what's happened to them. They're not complaining and sharing, showing scars. They're looking at the Lamb and they're saying, Thank God I'm saved. They're looking at the Lamb and saying, Thank God you brought me here. They're looking at the Lamb and giving him all the glory. They're praising God not only for his grace and his government, but for the gift, because they they praise God for the Lamb. That's why I said earlier that we're all saved the same way by looking to the Lamb of God. And whether it's tribulation time, Old Testament time, New Testament time, back yonder they looked ahead. Here we look back, there they look up, and they're all looking in the same way, looking to the same one. They're looking to the Lamb of God. And they're praising God for the gift. Now, I want you to see this scene. Look in verse 11 and 12. Kind of sounds familiar, don't it? And all the angels stood round about the throne, and about the elders and the four beasts, and fell before the throne on their faces and worshiped God, saying, Amen. Somebody said to me, I don't like hearing amen in church. I said, You ain't gonna like heaven. They say it a lot there and they say it a whole lot louder. They say it a lot there, and they say it a whole lot louder. Hear what they said? Amen. Amen. That's what they said. You read it, it's in your Bible too. They said amen. And then look what they did. And and they began to uh they say an Amen, blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might. Be unto our God forever and ever. Here it is again. Amen. You say, what's going on there? There's a scene of worship. I it it seems to me like every time we get a little glimpse into heaven during Revelation, they're always worshiping. If they're not, they're on the verge of it. It just seems like worship erupts spontaneously, continuously You know what heaven's gonna be? Heaven's gonna be a place of worship. Heaven's gonna be a place of worship. Folks listen, I don't believe we're gonna be floating around on clouds with little wings sticking out our back, plucking harps. and looking at each other like a bunch of newborn calves. We are going to be worshiping the Lord. He's going to be the center of attention. Our eyes are going to be upon him. We'll be giving him glory and honor and praise. And my friend, if you're saved, there's something in you wants to be a part of that. If you're saved by the grace of God, now if you're not saved, you ain't got no interest in it. And it even sounds a little boring to you. You want heaven to be a different place But I've got news for you that heaven's going to be a place where they worship continually. There's worship on, it seems like every chance we get when we look up into heaven in Revelation, they're worshiping the Lamb of God. Oh, what a scene. Heaven's going to be something else. Someone said, These saints, this great multitude that no man could number, stirred up those angels. And they stirred up those elders. And they stirred up that other crowd that's around the throne. And they stirred them up to worship. Would to God we had some folk and stir people to worship. That's what they're doing. They're stirring them up. Now I'll tell you, folk get stirred up, man, they get stirred up by a lot of stuff, but it's usually not for worship I'm not talking about fleshly emotion. I'm talking about the working of the Spirit of God that makes you want to adore the Lamb of God. That working of the Holy Spirit that makes you want to say, my, he's worthy. That that working of God that that stirs your heart to say, Oh, how wonderful the Lord is. That worship that makes you look beyond the singing and the voice and the song and makes you see the Savior who's worthy of it all That kind of worship that makes you say, he's altogether lovely. I can't find one fault in him. He's beautiful every way in which you look at him. Oh, that kind of worship. That's what they're doing up in heaven. They're stirring each other up. In their worship. Now, we come to this verses 13 to 17, and it's as if the Holy Ghost adds a footnote. And says, I want you to know more about what this is. One of the elders it says, answered, saying unto me, What are these which are arrayed in white robes, and whence came they? Who what are these? These people. They're they're obviously not that revelation forecrowd. Now who was that? That's the church That's the redeemed, brought up in the rapture, and resurrected there at the coming of the Lord. That's that crowd. And this elder, he's been there all along. And he says, Who are these? Who are these individuals? What do they uh what are they doing here? Whence came they? And verse 14, I said unto him, sir, thou knowest. And he said to me, listen now, these are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Who are they? Saved people out of the tribulation. Men and women who have been saved during the tribulation. Now, may I issue a warning right here Would you go back to 2 Thessalonians real quick? I feel like we need to take the moment to do this. 2 Thessalonians, and uh I want you to see a very important passage here I'm going to chapter number two, Second Thessalonians chapter number two. What you hear what your Bible says, starting in verse 8. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 and verse 8 says, And then shall that wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth. And shall destroy with the brightness of his coming. It's talking about the Antichrist. Even him whose coming is after the workings of Satan with all power and signs and line wonders. And with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish. Listen now, because they receive not the love of the truth. That they might be saved. Who is that? That's that crowd who could have been saved but weren't. They had an opportunity to get saved, but they didn't They heard the gospel. God the Holy Ghost worked in their heart. They said, no, no, no. Jesus comes, the church is gone, and here's what the Bible says. You don't get another chance. You don't get another chance. He said that they are going to be, verse 11, for this cause God shall send them strong delusion that they should believe a lie. that they all might be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. They had an opportunity to be saved, but they refused to be. They had an opportunity to get right, but they did not. And now God says, you've sealed your faith. The judgment's coming. There's no way you're going to be saved. Well you say, preacher, who's that outfit then over here in Revelation 7? Who's that crowd, that great number who come out of the great tribulation? They're people who've never heard the gospel. Now you say, preacher, could there be that many people on the earth? I'm telling you, you'd be shocked at how many people don't know. We live in a bubble. And usually it's a mighty small one. We live in a bubble and we think everybody knows what I know. Not everybody knows what you know. Not everybody's heard what you've heard. Not everybody has had the opportunity that you've had the opportunity. There are people living in the boundaries and borders of the United States of America who've never heard the gospel of Jesus Christ. You say, preacher, you're foolish. No, I'm not foolish. I just know what the the reality of things are. I believe there's probably people walking the streets of Cecil County and living even here within Elkton, uh Maryland, who have not heard the gospel. You've got to realize there's a whole generation of people that know nothing about the Bible. They live so foreign from what 's so common to you, but so foreign to them. They have no affiliation with church. They have no notions of what the Bible teaches. And and and I'm just saying that it's very feasible and possible that there'd be such a great host of people. In fact, I believe the greater majority of the people Do not know and have not heard that they need to be saved. And I'm here to tell you there's going to be a crowd during that tribulation period when these hundred and forty-four thousand go out preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. There's going to be people get saved, but it's going to cost them. He says, who are they? Here's those people. They've come out of the great tribulation. They've washed their robes, made them white in the blood of the Lamb. You know what's happened to them? These individuals have had to die for their faith. The man of sin is going to have such a stronghold and a stranglehold on the earth that you can't buy nor sell except you bear the mark. You're not going to be able to function, live, be free, exist without that mark. And because you don't have it, if you've trusted Christ as your Savior, those individuals are going to be put to death. I'm going to tell you, the the martyrdom that the early church faced is going to be faced by that last day peoples. Those last day peoples are going to die. I believe some of the most wicked inventions that the devil can come up with are going to be used on Christians. I believe he's going to exterminate by the thousands. It says a number that no man could number. They're going to be murdered, they're going to be hunted, they're going to be haunted down, they're going to be put to death, they're going to be annihilated. But listen, I love what it goes on to say. Look at them now Down here they shed their blood. Down here they lost their life. Down here they were tortured immensely. Down here they went through incredible suffering. But there. Verse 15 says, they're before the throne of God. They serve him day and night. Notice this, in his temple. Now God's given them a special place These people are not a part of the church. These individuals are the people that were saved in the tribulation, and they've got some special place doing service before the throne of God. And notice this, he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them. They shall hunger no more. That tells me that they left out of here hungry. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst anymore. I'll tell you, if you've ever read the Fox's Book of Martyrs, you've read some pretty gross ways of being put to death. Some very grim ways of dying. Oh, just the torture. And you wonder what wicked mind produces something like that. I'll tell you what, the a mind that's controlled by the devil. He's a great destroyer of man. And they're going to leave out of here hungering, thirsting. But he said, Not anymore. Neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat. They're not going to be left out to die at the mere forces of the elements. They're not going to scorch in the deserts. They're not going to die with parched lips and swollen tongues. Oh no. He's going to take care of them The lamb, I love this, which is in the midst of the throne, shall feed them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters. And watch this, God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. All those tears they cried in suffering, all those tears they cried in separation, all those tears they wept over their situation, God says They're gone. He's gonna wipe them away. He's not talking about what happened back yonder at the judgment seat of Christ. This is something God's gonna do specifically for them. Why? because they've gotten saved and he's brought 'em out and he says, it's gone. All that's gone. You're no longer going to suffer like you suffered. You're no longer going to weep like you wept I'm going to wipe every tear from your eye. I'm glad heaven's going to rectify the whole mess. God's going to straighten it all out, and up there in heaven one day, that crowd, oh, thank God they got saved Thank God they got saved. I believe God's going to be saving folks. I I love the fact my my pastor used to in fact he he got put in jail over in Israel for putting Bibles in the Red Rock city of Petra They smuggled Bibles in there and we're sticking them in the holes in the caves in there because he believes that that's where God's going to hide the Jewish nation that survived, the people that survived. the tribul the latter part of the tribulation and that nation's going to be born today. Brother Ralph said, well better put 'em something in there to read. If God's going to hide 'em in there, they ought to have something to look at. So they were hiding Bibles in there and they got arrested for doing that But but you know something? There are going to be people that'll get converted during that time. Yes, there are people who've never heard. Yes, there are people who've never had an opportunity. And if you're sitting here tonight or listen to this broadcast, I want you to know you've had an opportunity. You're having an opportunity right now. Christ died for your sin. He was buried, rose again the third day. He'll save you if you'll call on him You have an opportunity to be saved. Don't think that you'll join that number and say, well, I'll die for the Lord during then. If you won't trust him in the age of grace, you won't turn to him during the time of judgment. But there will be a crowd who will. It'll be the best thing they've ever heard. It'll be glorious news, Charlie. They'll hear it, they'll receive it, they'll get born again. They'll gladly lay their head down on a stake somewhere and say, Chop her off. They'll gladly say, Throw me in the fire, I'll die for him. They'll weep tears because they're human. They'll hunger and they'll thirst because they're made of flesh like you and me. But immediately in the presence of God, God's going to usher them in and say, welcome home. I'm glad you're here. I'm going to take your tears away. I'm going to take your hunger away. I'm going to take your thirst away. I'm going to minister to you as the Lamb of God. Church, I'm telling you, this is real. You know I get a kick out of folk. They'll sit and watch some old silly made-up thing, some sci-fi thing, and they'll ooh and ah and shriek and scream and shriek and all of that and think it's amazing. They'll read their Bible and they'll yawn and say, hmm. Little too fanatical for me. I got news for you. This is the only truth. This is real. It's gonna happen one day. I hope the Lord lets me stand beside a skeptic or two, because I'd like to go, pfft, I told you so. Now that's my flesh. I ain't gonna have it up there, okay? So I'm just getting it out while I'm down here All right, pray for me. The Lord needs to help me. But oh what a time it's gonna be. There's gonna be a reward, special place. They'll be with a special person, and God's gonna give them special peace. They've come through. They've come through. Who are they? Oh, that's that crowd come out of the great tribulation. That's that crowd washed their robes in white. They're washed in the blood of the Lamb. They shed theirs for the one who shed his for them. Oh yes, they had to go through suffering, but thank God they're now home. I want you to rest assured, even in the tribulation, God 's saving grace still saves. Still saves. There's something special about God's grace. If you're saved, you know. Because it came down and reached you. You know the the beauty of grace and the power of grace. God's grace reached you one day. It might have been as a little young person, young boy, young girl, might have been as a teenager, a young adult Might have been in your older years, your later years, but God's grace paid you a visit. And God's grace made a way for you to come in. God opened the door for you to be saved, made a way. He Jesus is that way. And he made a way for you. You tasted the grace of God And one thing we'll all have in common when we gather around the throne and step into the eternity future and worship Him forever is that we're all there by grace. We'll all be able to say, We'll lock arms, we can lock arms with Abraham, lock arms with uh those apostles, lock arms with those tribulation saints and we can all join together and say amazing grace how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. I once was lost but now and found was blind but now I see. It'll all be by grace. I don't believe in a graceless gospel. If there's no grace, my friend, there's no gospel. For by grace are you saved. And as we look down the road to see what's coming, I'm glad God's grace will still be at work. And the beauty of it, it's going to be right under the devil's nose. God 's shown from the beginning of time till now. He's God. And besides me, there is no other. He's gonna put an exclamation point at the end of it during the tribulation. Still God Still saving, still powerful, still in charge. And when he comes down and tells the one angel, behind old Satan, and cast him. He says , Still God. Still God. He loosens him for a little season, and what does he do? He rallies the following. He rallies the gathering. And they raise up And they they revolt and he wipes the whole mess out and casts the devil away forever. You know what he's going to be saying? I'm still God I'm still God. Listen, your unbelief, don't take him off the throne. Your hatred, don't take him off the throne. Your bitterness, don't take him off the throne. Your rejection, don't Change the gospel. Your your refusal to believe, listen, don't hurt God's feelings. It don't change the Lord. He's still the Lord. He still has a way for you to be saved. And you might be the most wicked, hardest, old rebel you've ever seen, but God can still save you too. And there's grace for you to be saved by and to get in by. My friend, listen, God can save anybody And that includes you. What a day that's gonna be. You say, what are we doing? Well We don't have a lot of detail of what's going on during this time. I believe the marriage supper of the Lamb's taking place. I believe the judgment seat of Christ But we're going to have a ringside seat to all that the Lord is doing. All that the Lord is doing. I'm glad he's still going to be working during the tribulation. Now, friend, listen, if you're not saved, I wouldn't shut my eyes and sleep another night lost. I'm not I'm not being alarmist. I'm just trying to tell you the truth. I wouldn't shut my eyes another night and sleep. I'd I'd keep my eyes open twenty-four, thirty-six, forty-eight, whatever hours it takes until you get saved by God's grace. I wouldn't shut my eyes Until I knew for sure my sin was forgiven. And if you're not right with God, I'd get right with God. Time's too short. And life's fast and quick. And the opportunities we have to live for the Lord are few. They're getting fewer. You and I need to be living as if he's coming tomorrow. Perhaps even today, because he very well could live for him. Dear Christian, let's not play games. Let's give our best for God. Let's stand together