Judges chapter number six, and I'm going to begin reading in verse number one. Judges chapter number six. In verse number one. When you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please. And I'd like to read the first 14 verses of this chapter in your hearing. Judges chapter number six and verse number one says, And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years. And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel, and because of the Midianites, the children of Israel made them dens, which are in the mountains and caves and strongholds. And so it was when Israel had sown that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east, even they came up against them. And they encamped against them and destroyed the increase of the earth, till thou come unto Gaza, and left no sustenance for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass. But they came up with their cattle and their tents, and they came as grasshoppers for multitude. For both they and their camels were without number, and they entered into the land to destroy it. And Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites, and the children of Israel cried unto the Lord. It came to pass when the children of Israel cried unto the Lord because of the Midianites that the Lord sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, which said unto them, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel. I brought you up from Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage, and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drave them out from before you and gave you their land. And I said unto you, I am the Lord your God. Fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell, but ye have not obeyed my voice. And there came an angel of the Lord, and sat under an oak, which is in Oprah, that pertained unto Joash the Abbezurite, and his son Gideon threshed wheat by the wine press to hide it from the Midianites. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him and said unto him, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. And Gideon said unto him, O my Lord, if the Lord be with us. Why then is all this befallen us? And where be all his miracles which our Father told us of, saying, Did not the Lord bring us up from Egypt? But now the Lord hath forsaken us and delivered us into the hands of the Midianites. And the Lord looked upon him and said, Go in this thy might. And thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites. Have not I sent thee? I'm going to stop reading there. Verse number 13 is my text this evening. I want you to notice these questions that Gideon asked. And as we look at them, I want to preach this evening, the Lord being my helper, the lies that the devil tells you. The lies that the devil tells you. Brother Andy, would you lead us in prayer? And as he prays, you pray. And let's ask the Lord to speak to us from his word, please. Father, we come before you now, Lord in Jesus' name. And we're grateful, Father, for your blessings and for what a blessing it is that you left us your word. And we know it's true. And we know we can trust you. Lord God, we pray that you just help us to trust it more. Father, we believe your word helps us trust it more. Yes. Father, we've gathered tonight to hear from you, and we know you're going to speak to us from your very Precious word. So Lord, speak to us now. We do pray for our pastor. Father, just to clear his mind from everything except what the Spirit of God would have him say. Relax his spirit. Lord, calm his heart and just speak through him to us tonight. Lord help us, Father. We need you to speak plain to us. We need you to speak clear to us. Help us, Lord, to dismiss from our hearts and minds those thoughts. uh those uh ideas that would uh distract us, Lord, because we we genuinely want to hear from you. So Lord, uh help us. You help us to hear, Lord. Help us to receive what you have, Heavenly Father, and help us to take it with us and to live it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. You can be seated. Thank you for standing. You know this account probably very well. This is the dealings of God with Gideon, that judge that the Lord raised up. We often look at Gideon and think about him as being the reluctant judge. He was the man who said, now Lord, are you sure? And the Lord said, yes, I'm sure. And then he said, Lord, are you really, really sure? And the Lord said, Yes, I'm sure. And then Gideon said, But but but are you really, really, really sure that I'm the one that you want to use? And the reality is, yes, God was sure, because God makes no mistakes. And yet Gideon had a little battle here in the beginning, and as I read this account over again, I recognized something very clear. That Gideon had believed some lies that the devil had been telling. And by the way, the devil's always telling lies because that's all the devil does. The devil's a liar and the father of it. And I want to remind you this evening that the danger you and I face as God's people is not that we will dismiss the word or not even really that we would disobey the Lord, but that we would be deceived and believe the lies of the devil. The devil had told Gideon some things and and he had he had believed them. Can I just point them out real quick this evening? One thing about the devil is he's never original. What the devil has used, he goes on using Well, and the reason for that is because he don't have to be. If it works, why change it? And so the the truth is that he uses these same things over and over and over again. I don't doubt this evening that there's someone sitting here that the devil told you one or all of these three lies. I don't doubt in my heart that somewhere today, perhaps someday, sometime yesterday, or at some point in this past week The devil's come along and he's whispered one of these three or all of these three lies in your ears. And the question tonight is, have you believed them? Have we believed them? Well, let's look at them real quick. Notice again in verse number 13. Gideon said unto him, Now the angel of the Lord has come to Gideon. And he's brought a message. God has brought the children of Israel under bondage to the Midianites. You'll notice the Bible says for seven years, this was one of their shorter captivities. This was one of the times of oppression. They would go out and they would sow their fields and plant everything. And just as the crop got up and ready, here come the Midianites And by the way, the devil never travels alone. He had the Amalekites and he had the children of the East all along in his entourage. And here they all come together. You know what they're doing? They're coming to devour the crops the children of Israel have raised The children of Israel had uh you know made preparation for themselves, and now because this is happening, and apparently it has happened at least seven times in a row, because they're now hiding in the dens and they're hiding in caves and they're hiding away because they know what's coming. The crops are getting ready. The Midianites, the Amalekites, the children of the East, they're all coming And they're going to take their crops. So we better get what we can, go hide where we may, and make sure that we have a little something to eat. And that's the way they're living their lives. And it is during this time that God says, All right, children of Israel, you're crying out. They're saying, Lord, have mercy. We're sorry, forgive us. They're getting right with God and now the the the Lord sends them a prophet and the prophet says, here's the reason and here it is the resources, here's the here's what you need to do to get this thing right And then God goes and he speaks to Gideon and says, now you're going to be my deliverer. And a lot of times we put a lot of emphasis, I guess. on Gideon and his inabilities and and and if you'll just let me say it like this, it's not really about Gideon, it's about God and the God of Gideon, who's going to do something that only God can do for Gideon 's sake. This man could have been anybody, really. This man could have been any individual. He could have chosen. Fact is, God can use anybody anywhere in any way that he so chooses if they will make themselves available to the Lord. Now Gideon begins to reason with this angel of the Lord And as he speaks to him, you'll notice what's going on in his mind and heart. This angel of the Lord has said to him, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. And you and I look at that and we say, now, I wonder, does he know who he's talking to? Well, he does because he's the angel of the Lord. And uh he knows exactly who he's talking to. He knows exactly what he's going to do, and then Gideon begins his complaint, or if you will, and by the way, all he's doing is repeating what the devil's already told him. Notice the first thing. My Lord, if the Lord be with us, why then has all this befallen us? You know what he was saying? Lord, you're not with us. The Lord's not with us. If you're making notes tonight, I want you to note this: that the devil's lie, number one, is that God is not present. God is not present. Gideon let what he could see determine what he believed. Gideon's looking around, he's seeing these Midianites, these Amalekites, these children of the East. He's watching these hordes and bands of thieves and robbers, and they're coming in and they're decimating the countryside And leaving God's people in real trouble because there's nothing to eat now or very little to eat. And he's looking around and saying, God, if you're here, why is this happening to us? You know, one of the things the devil wants you to think is that God is not true to his word. He will lie to you and say God's not present. He will say, like Gideon said, If Lord, if you're with us, then why is all this befallen us? You know what Gideon was doing when he was putting his circumstances above the scriptures. He was elevating what the Bible says Over, over, uh rather under, he was elevating what was going on in his life rather than what the Bible had already said or what God had said. Remember what the angel of the Lord said The angel of the Lord had said to him, The Lord is with thee. Now, you say, preacher, I'd be pretty convinced if an angel of the Lord showed up in my face. and said, The Lord is with thee. Well my friend Peter said, You've got a more sure word of prophecy. You've got something more dependable than a voice from heaven or an appearance of an angel, you've got the precious word of God. And the Bible says he's with us. The angel said, Gideon, he's with you. And what Gideon did is he just started believing the lie that the devil had whispered in his ear. God 's not present. You know what's interesting to me as I read through this account, it's very evident God was present. Look in verse number one. It says the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord. That means he was present. He was present because they were doing evil, yes, they were doing wrong, yes, but they were in the sight of the Lord. The Lord was present, the Lord was beholding them. I want to report to you tonight there's nowhere you can go that the Lord's not already there. He's present everywhere. The psalmist David in that great omni psalm made the statement, if I make my bed in hell, he's there. If I take the wings of the morning, fly to the othermost part of the sea, behold, he's there. In fact, he found out no matter where he went, God was there. You cannot escape the presence of God. But the devil comes along and says, God's not here. God's not here. He's a liar. He's telling a lie. This is a lie. And apparently Gideon believed it. Not only do I see him present, but I see him answering prayer. In verse number six, it says, Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites, and the children of Israel cried unto the Lord. And it came to pass when the children of Israel cried unto the Lord because of the Midianites that the Lord sent a prophet. By the way, this the coming of a prophet Was a stamp of God's activity among his people. When there was no prophet or no voice or no vision and no message from heaven, that meant the heavens were closed. That meant that God was not communicating. He was not pleased. He had shut up the heavens. But when these people prayed, God sent a prophet. I want you to see God was proving he was present by the answering of prayer, by the sending of this prophet. God was keeping his promise to the children of Israel that when they were scattered or when they were afflicted, he told them, all you've got to do is call unto me. And when you call unto me wherever it is, I'll answer you, I'll turn to you, if you'll turn to me. And you know what he was doing? He was doing that right here. He was present among them. I believe the fourth reason that we know God is present is because of the promise or the proclamation here of this messenger. The angel of the Lord simply said, Gideon, the Lord's with thee. The Lord's with thee. But you know something about Gideon. Gideon had gotten to the place that he was always putting question marks where God had put periods. Now I started to throw some rocks at Gideon, but I'll have to be honest. Somebody have to throw rocks at me Because the truth is, I often and sometimes do what Gideon did, I'll put question marks where God's put a period And God said to Gideon, this angel brought a message, the Lord's with you, the Lord's with you, thou mighty man of valor. The Lord is present. But the devil said, God's not here. Be careful. Be careful who you listen to. The devil's a liar. Lie number one, God's not present. Notice the second lie. God's not powerful. Look what he asks. And where be all his miracles, which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not the Lord bring us up from Egypt? Gideon was not ignorant of his past. He was not ignorant of his heritage. He was not ignorant of the scriptures. He knew about all of the if if you'll let me use this word, I don't like to use it, but just for sake of the message He knew all the stories. Sometimes we know all the stories, but we forget to see the reason behind them. They're really not stories, they're accounts. They're accounts of things that God did. And so he knew all of that, and he said, Where's the miracles? In other words, he's saying, Is God still powerful? Can God do what he's done in the past? Can God split a sea? Can God defeat an enemy? Can God provide food from out of nowhere, the manna? Can God make a way where there is no way? Where's all the miracles? What he's saying in that question is God's not powerful anymore. God's not powerful anymore. I don't think that Gideon did not believe that God did all of that. I believe he believed that. I believe he understood that God parted the Red Sea and God brought the children of Israel out of Egypt. And God brought them through the wilderness. I believe he understood all of that, and I believe he believed all of that. But here's what he said. He's not doing it now. He's not doing that now. Is God all powerful? Well, Gideon is believing the devil's lie, and the devil's lie is this: God's not powerful. Do you know what a miracle is? A miracle is God putting an exclamation point behind the statement, I am powerful. God is putting an exclamation point and saying, let me demonstrate to you the great power that I have. And Gideon is questioning that. Gideon is not sure about that. Gideon has believed the devil's lie. And I want you to know something. The devil did not stop telling that lie back in Gideon's day. He's still telling it here this evening. He's still whispering in men's ears and saying, God's not powerful. God's not powerful. You think about the power of God here, and I want you to notice when we think about the power of God, we always have to look into the past. The past is not to be discounted. When you look into the past, you realize that God has done some great things. In verse number 8, he says, The Lord sent the prophet unto the children of Israel, which said unto them, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I brought you up from Egypt and brought you forth out of the house of bondage. And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians. Who did that? God did. It wasn't Moses, and it wasn't, you know, it wasn't any of the other people that were involved in this. It was simply God. God's power brought them out of Egypt. And I want you to remember when we look into the past, we see the mighty power of God. When you look into the Bible and you read Genesis 1, I think that's why the devil so attacks that book of our Bible because he knows that creation is a living demonstration of the mighty power of God. Every sunrise and sunset, every star-filled night sky, every example in nature of the power it's it it it screams with a voice That you cannot deny. God is a powerful, powerful God. And here's what the devil does: He says, God's not powerful. Remember, he's a liar. In verse number nine, he says he talks about his power in delivering them out of the hand of the Egyptians, out of the hand of all them that oppressed you. He's talking about a specific time where God brought them out. The Bible says with his hand of power, with his mighty hand of power. They were delivered out of Egypt by God's miraculous hand. You remember the ten uh signs and wonders and miracles that took place down there Finally, the death of the firstborn, and then the parting of the Red Sea, and the drowning of Egypt's army, all were demonstrations of God's great power. Here was a people in slavery. Here was the people with no swords. Here was the people with no capability to fight. These people could not deliver themselves, but God could. And God in His great power delivered them. And when you not only look in the past, you've got to remember the powerful deliverances of the Lord. If you're saved tonight, God's power has been demonstrated in your life personally. It was God that went into the pit of sin and rescued you and made you a new creature. You didn't reform yourself, you didn't regenerate yourself, you didn't rehab yourself, you didn't turn yourself around. God in infinite power saved you by his amazing grace. God came to where you were, friend, and it was his power that saved you. Sometimes we forget, you say, well, I was saved as a child. Took the same blood, took the same power, took the same salvation that it takes to save a man uh who 's in the depths of sin and living a life of debauchery, it takes the power of God to be saved. You can't make a new heart and you can't make a new creature, but God can So we see the power of God. He went down in Egypt and he brought them out. Isn't it an amazing thing you've been brought out? That he brought you out of that place. You know, you need to stop and think about what am I doing here? Have you ever done that? What am I doing here? Every once in a while I'll walk into something and I'll think, what am I doing here? You ever have to remind yourself what you're doing here? Amen. Well, he he you you ever just why am I here at church on Sunday night? I mean it's raining, it it's it's just a dark, and it's been that way, it seems like it's rained for two years. I don't know. I don't know when the last time the sun shone around here But it and you say, what am I doing? Why am I here? What made me want to come to the house of God? Was it because somebody was going to scold me or get after me or whatever Oh no, no. You know what made you come here? I I really believe this. If you came with a desire to please the Lord, He put that desire in your heart. The power of God did that in your life. You've lived your life for the Lord however many years you have. How come? Because you don't know any better? Because you don't know a different way? Oh no. It's a testimony of God's power that reached down in your life, turns you around. put you on the right path. Some of us got away from God, got out of the will of God and out of fellowship with God. But aren't you glad that God's power didn't leave you? God's power worked in your life and brought you back to Himself And now you're trying to serve God and live for him. You know why? Because of the power of God. God's power is very real in the lives of his people. Not only do I see the past and the power, but you see their placement in the land. He said, I drave them out from before you and gave you their land. God said, I give you that land. I gave you this beautiful land that you're living in, this land of Canaan that flows with milk and honey I gave you that land. You didn't come in here and take it by your power. They learned early on that if God didn't give them the victory, the victory would not be theirs. When they fought the battle at Jericho, there wasn't much of a battle in a sense. They just had to obey God and march, and God brought down the walls and gave the victory. They learned when they got full of themselves and went up to AI all self-confident that God can take a handful and whip a whole lot if his blessing's not on that group of people. And because of their disobedience, they were driven back, and they got on their knees and said, Lord, what's wrong? They got that right, and then they conquered Ai. You know what? God was saying, I put you in the land. Now listen, if God's done some things in your life through salvation, he's sanctifying you, he's grown and matured you, he's given you some victory over things in your life. He's helped you in your walk with the Lord. You've been faithful so many years. I want you to know God did that. God did that. That wasn't because you've got determination. That isn't because you've got grit. That's not because you're good. It's because you're God 's. And God in his infinite mercy has helped you. Listen, God's people don't have anywhere to put their thumbs in their spiritual suspenders and rare bat and crow. And say, look at me. All of us have to say, oh, but if if it weren't for grace, if it weren't for God, it is God's power that has put me where I am today. I like how Paul put it. He said, By the grace of God, I am what I am. He said, if there's anything good in me, God did it. If there's any good that comes of me, God did it. If there's anything in my life that makes a difference, it's God. It's all about Him. And my friend, that's true about you and I. And it demonstrates the power of God. I used to hear the old mountain preacher say God can take a crooked stick and draw a straight line. And they were talking about themselves. They were talking about God's people. And you and I must recognize that if there's any victory If there's any accomplishment, if there's any spiritual advancement, if there's any growth in grace, if there's any likeness to the Lord Jesus, and oh that there was and is and so much more. But listen, all of that is not the work of man, it's the work of God. It's God's great power working in his people. Oh, I want to remind you that our God is a God of power. Let me read you a psalm here real quick, just one verse out of that psalm. It's Psalm 147. In verse 5, great is our Lord and of great power. His understanding is infinite. Great is our Lord and of great power. You know the devil comes along, here's what he does. God's not powerful. God's not powerful. Get in, look at all of the devastation around you. God's not powerful Gideon, look at all of the problems, look at all of the enemy, look at the children of Israel hiding out in the cave, look at all of the uh the turmoil and all the devastation. Look at all that. God's not powerful. And I've got news for you the devil's a liar. God is powerful. And I'm telling you, he's waiting, he's bidding his time At the opportunity that he's granted, at the opportunity we yield, at the opportunity he finds a vessel who will give himself, God will demonstrate his power once again. The children of Israel face the giant, and the giant's roaring, raging, and he's talking about all that he's going to do. And do you think God's worried? Now Saul was, and the army was. They don't know what they're going to do. They don't have a man that can fight him. They don't have a soldier that'll face him. I don't doubt that Saul would have given half of his kingdom to find him. In fact, he made some big promises. If there's a man to go fight him, he's trying to pay somebody to go do battle with old Goliath. And everybody said we can't do anything. Now God didn't have to raise up a giant. God did not have to raise up you know what? Sometimes we think, boy, I need a giant. No, I need God. I need a God that can take little things and do big things. God didn't need a giant. God could use a boy. He could use what the Bible says is a stripling of a boy. He could use he could use uh someone that that nobody else even thought was usable, who everybody else discounted, God said, Oh, I got somebody for that giant. And by the way, it was not about the somebody. It was about the power of God. It was God going to do something. That little rock was just an ordinary rock. It was until God's hand got on it And when God's hand got on it, it killed a giant. I'm telling you, that's the power of God. That's what our God can do. But you know what the devil He wants you hiding in the tent like Saul. He wants you hiding out over here somewhere shaking in your boots saying, oh, we need a giant. God send a giant. God raise a. You know, I kind of laugh when I hear Christians saying, boy, we need a movie star to get saved. We need somebody popular to get saved. We need some big name to get saved. I'm telling you, God don't need the world's uh attention, applause, or attractions. He can raise up a little boy, a little shepherd boy. He can take some little thing that everybody else discounts And he can do wonders. Why? Because God is a God of power. God is a God of power. I have in my Bible a picture of old Uncle Buddy Robinson, the old Nazarene preacher. And old Buddy Robinson had a bad speech impediment, and and uh, you know, nobody they thought God never do anything to him And he said, God wants me to preach. And of course he sat before the council and they said, no, nobody will ever come listen to you, buddy. You you miss God on that thing. You don't need to be out preaching. And he felt like God wanted to preach, so he got him a little tent and he struck out to preaching. And boy, it wasn't long they realized that God had put his hand on that stuttering man And God used him in a mighty way. There came a time, buddy, said the Nazarenes come around and said, We'd like to ordain you now and recognize you. He said, Well, I've been doing pretty good without you. Blessing. I think I'll go on without it. Well, the reality is that man's hands do not confer the power of God. It is God's power that makes all the difference in the world. And God takes broken things. Look at the things God's used in the Bible that everybody else would throw away Job found comfort in a piece of pottery, broken piece of pottery, sitting on his ash heap mourning. God would use uh Gideon here in a little bit breaking the pictures They would break those pictures and that light would shine through and and and they would God would use that. God would use that broken picture. You see, we throw away broken things, God picks them up and uses them. And I'm telling you, there are men and women that think, well, I'm too broke, I'm too b I'm beyond what God could do. I've got news for you, my friend. There's nobody so broke God can't put them back together and use them in a powerful way. That's the power of God. Now if it was all up to you and I, I couldn't say that. If it was uh based upon our education or our capabilities or whatever you you might want to add to that list, I could not say that. But it's not. It's the power of God Here the Apostle Paul gloried in infirmities, in weakness, in necessities, in all of these things we might call tragedies. He gloried in that. He said, When I'm weak. Then am I strong. That's the economy of God. God uses weak things. God uses little things. And don't believe the devil when he says God's not powerful. When God takes up something weak and does great things, Gideon, he's weak. I know God called him a mighty man of valor, but I look at him, he's hiding out. He's scared to death. You say, What would you do? I'd have been probably behind him. I mean, he he's not no no dummy is gonna g I mean he's out he's not a an ignorant man. He's not gonna stand out there on the mountain when all these enemies are are around him. And say, I'm threshing wheat. I got ten bushels over here. Come get it, you know. He's not going to do that. He he he's afraid. He don't want him to take his food, so he's hiding down here by the wine press It's not about Gideon and his and his abilities. It's not about Gideon and his lack of courage. It's about God taking just some little nobody and doing great and mighty things. because it magnifies God's power. Second lie the devil tells is that God's not powerful. Third one, and I'm through. God's here here's the devil's lie. God's not protecting you. Look what he said. This isn't a question, it's a statement. He's come to a conclusion. He says, but now the Lord hath forsaken us and delivered us into the hands of the Midianites. Now Do you notice he misinterprets the present? He's got it all wrong. By the way, if you believe the devil's lies, you'll get it all wrong. There is a way that seems right unto a man. Where does it end? In death. You know why it seems right? Because the devil's saying that's right. That's right. You're going the right way. He's applauding. He's pushing. He's pleased. He's letting you know. Yeah, that's right. It's right. I've got news for you, my friend. You can think you're right and be dead wrong. He misinterpreted the present. He said now. Notice the emphasis On now. He says, now we're forsaken. You know what he's saying? We're done for. By the way, what's God getting ready to do? He's getting ready to deliver them. This this is not a moment of destruction. It's a moment of deliverance. But because Gideon believed the lie of the devil He's done, folded his little arms, and sat down on the ground and said, It's over. He's forsook me. Now God's forsaken us. He's finished. You know a lot of I I think of old Elijah. He he was done long before God was. Jeremiah was through before God was ever through. Some of us have been through before God was through. And you know why? Because we believed the lie of the devil. Now he said, God's forsaken us. Not only do you see the present, but notice he misinterpreted the prevailing. Oh, verse 2 says, the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel. You see, their scope was limited. Can I put it in plain English? They were on the Lord's leash. Seven years. God was finished. He said, You're done. Seven years Can I remind you that that the devil operates on a leash? Man, I wish we had time to go back in the book of Job And God put boundaries in Job chapter 1 when he told uh uh the devil that he could go touch what he had and all of his family and that, he said, but you can't take his life. Stop. Right there. Don't go past it. You can't go past. You go past there's no going past it. Isn't it interesting that the devil listens better than some of God's children? He dare not go past it. Well he couldn't. He's on the Lord's leash. The Lord said, This is far. And then g uh the devil comes back and he says, Yeah, but you take a man skin for skin. He'll give anything. You touch his body, he'll do anything. God said, Okay, I'll let you touch him. But you don't take his life. Now the devil would have killed him if he could. But God said, You ain't gonna kill him. You stop. Boy, he made him suffer and he made him sick, made his body sore, but he couldn't take his life. God put a boundary up. Now Gideon's looking at this prevailing, and he says, they beat us now. We don't have any. By the way, you think about these seven years of taking their crops, everything that they might have had reserved is depleted. They're really in a dangerous position now. And Gideon's looking at it, he's believing the lies of the devil, and he says, We're done for, we're finished, it's over. The Midianites have prevailed. And what Gideon failed to remember is that God is still God. And the devil only gets to do what God allows him to and he's permitted to do. Don't think for a minute. Look, don't get yourself all worked up Over what's happening in this world. Everything's on schedule according to God's plan. God is still on the throne. The devil's not in charge. He may be rising to ascendancy, like the scriptures teach us he will. He may be coming into his day of great power But I'm telling you soon we'll see the day of his devastation when God's going to cut him down with the words of his mouth Know this, that God is still God. And so recognize, don't listen to the lie of the devil and misinterpret the prevailings. A lot of people are changing their theology. Listen to me, because they're trying to make their theology fit the times Rather than understanding the times in their theology. There's a lot of people abandoning the reality that Jesus said, if I go, I will come again. There's a lot of people saying, well, I guess we're going to have to go through the tribulation when the Bible teaches us very clearly that the tribulation is not for the bride. The tribulation is that time of punishment, Jacob's troubles here on the earth. Listen, you and I need to understand some things. I don't have to make the Bible fit my day. I simply have to take the Bible and believe it whether it fits my day or not. I'm here to tell you we don't need to misinterpret the prevailings in this hour because the devil's lying and the devil's saying he's not taking care of you. Now I believe we ought to be wise, but listen to me. It's not up to you to keep you alive. If it was, you'd be in trouble. You remember striking out when you first struck out on your own and and you thought, I'm responsi uh the scariest thought I think I ever had was I'm responsible for me. The second scariest thought was when I had when we had Sarah and I'm standing there holding that little blonde puff ball in my hand and I mean literally in two hands I could hold every bit of her and I'm thinking I'm responsible for this. That's scary. And I'm thinking, what in the but you know what? Here I am on the other end of that thing, and I'm realizing it wasn't up to me It wasn't all on me. There's a God in heaven who cares for his own. And these Midianites, they might have been prevailing, but it was by permission of the Lord. It was according to his purposes. And soon his great power was going to demonstrate it, be demonstrated, and the enemy was going to be defeated. Gideon misinterpreted the purpose. In verse number 6, it says, Israel was greatly impoverished because the Midianites and the children of Israel cried unto the Lord. And you read on about what the prophet had to say. Remember this. They were Gideon believed that God was going to annihilate his people. He was done with them. He uses that word forsaken. It means to abandon. to leave orphaned. That God had said, I'm finished with you. But I've got news for you. You've got too much Bible that says God's not finished with His promise to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, that's going on. Apostle Paul in Romans 9, 10, 11, he stands up and says, I'm not through with Israel yet. I've got something I'm going to do in that country soon. I I'm not through with those people. I've not abandoned them. I've not forsaken them. And here here old Gideon thinks he's smarter than God and says, Well, I think that we're finished. God's done. He's forsaken us I've got news for you. When you believe the devil's lie, you will confuse his chastening with his condemnation. God 's hand of chastening was on Israel to bring them back to himself. That prodigal son down there in the pig pen understood that I'm here because of my sin. But I can still go home to my father. God sphinx his children. It's not because he's casting them off and making them orphans. Now you might find this hard to believe, but there was a day my children were not being very good children They know the day I'm about to tell. And I didn't know we didn't know what else to do. We said, get in the car, we're going for a ride. Put them both in the car. I think Joe was in a seat car seat, scrapped him in, put Sarah in the far back and said, don't touch, speak, look, don't even act like you know each other And we start down the road. And they're quiet. They're scared quiet. And one of them popped up. I think it was probably Joe at the prompting of his sister and said, Where are we going? And I said, to the orphanage. That was the kind of day we had had I 'll never forget looking up in the mirror and they're talking. You think we'll get to stay in a room together? They're really discussing this thing out. They thought for sure they were going. And you know it worked pretty good, Mark, so I just decided we're going to make this a long drive And we drove around the whole north shore of of Nova Scotia and we started back home and I heard Joe say to his sister, Hey, this is the way home. We're going back home. I s I I said temporarily. Temporarily. Now listen, sometimes God has to deal with us and we think He's put me away. But God's chastening is intended to bring me closer to his heart. Back to his arms. Back to a place. Where did that boy go when he left the pig pen? He went right back to the embrace of the Father. And he welcomed him home. The devil's a liar. John 8 44 says he's the father of it. He's a liar and the father of it. He lies. But may I remind you just quickly in Titus 1:2, the Bible says God cannot lie. In Hebrews 6, 18, it is impossible for God to lie. Numbers 23, rather, 19 tells me that God is not man, that he should lie. He is God. He tells the truth. I'm just telling you tonight the devil lies when he talks about God being present. He lies when he talks about God not being powerful. He lies when he talks about God not protecting All of those things are lies. God's word is true. You can believe it whether you feel it, whether you see it, whether you understand it. Just drop your anchor on the blessed word of God and believe what he says, period. Because the devil's a liar. And may God keep us from being deceived by the devil's lies. Father, thank you for the privilege to pray.