You can strut around and never get born again. But if you'll come to him just a broken, dirty old sinner, he'll take you in. And I appreciate the goodness of God. Thank you for that reminder. Would you open your Bible, please, to Revelation 12? Revelation 12, I'd like to read the whole chapter in your hearing this evening. We are still in the parentheses that started back in chapter number 11. The Lord is filling us in or catching us up. On things we need to know. And in Revelation chapter number 12, we've come to the unmasking of Satan's schemes. This chapter is a very critical chapter in the Bible. If you want to understand what's happening in the world today, get a hold of Revelation chapter 12. If you want to understand what kind of battle that we're in, know what Revelation chapter 12 is teaching. And you'll get a good understanding of the kind of battle that we're engaged in today. Revelation chapter 12 says this, and there appeared a great wonder in heaven. A woman clothed with the sun and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars. And she being with child cried, travailing in birth, and pain to be delivered. And there appeared another wonder in heaven. And behold a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns upon his head. And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and did cast them to the earth And the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered for to devour her child as soon as it was born. And she brought forth a man-child who was to rule all nations with the rod of iron. And her child was caught up unto God and to his throne. And the woman fled into the wilderness where she hath a place prepared of God, that they should feed her there a thousand two hundred and three score days. And there was war in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, and the dragon fought in his angels, and prevailed not. Neither was their place found any more in heaven. And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world. He was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, now is come salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God. and the power of his Christ. For the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accuse them before our God day and night. And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, and they loved not their lives unto the death. Therefore, rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them. Woe to the inhabitors of the earth and of the sea, for the devil has come down unto you, having great wrath Because he knoweth that he hath but a short time. And when the dragon saw that he was cast unto the earth, he persecuted the woman which brought forth the man-child And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle that she might fly into the wilderness, into her place where she is nourished for a time. and times and half a time from the face of the serpent. And the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the woman, that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened up her mouth and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth. And the dragon was wroth with the woman. and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ. Well, if correctly read, that's Revelation chapter number 12. I want us to look at Satan's scheme tonight. What really is going on in this world? I'm thankful again that I have a Bible. The Bible gives me insight as to what's happening that I would not have if I did not have the Bible This book will tell you things you can't know except you read its pages. And it does that in this case. Let's pray and we'll begin our study this evening. Old Father, We come in Jesus' name and thank you for the privilege we have to pray. We thank you for your mercy to us, the grace you've shown, and the privilege that we have to open this book. I ask, O Lord, would you be our teacher? Would you please come and speak and work in every heart? And above all things, O Lord, we pray that the name of the Lord Jesus would be made much of, be lifted up. Lord, I pray that you'd be glorified in this place. And we'll thank you and praise you for all that you do. Lord, please help me lift up Jesus. Hide me behind the cross. Lord, I thank you for the blessed gift of Pentecost. Lord, I take as he undertakes, and trust your will be done in Jesus' strong name. And God's people said, Amen. Well, in Revelation chapter number twelve , The old writers, the old theological writers would say that Revelation 12 reveals Satan's ruling passion It reveals what he's up to. And let me just say quickly in the beginning that his goal and desire is to exterminate the Jewish people. Revelation 12 makes that very clear. We're going to see that here in just a few moments. Many times in history, in fact, if we just go to the Bible In Bible history, there have been efforts made to exterminate God's people. We find that in the uh the days of Mordecai when Haman uh wanted to make a decree to destroy all the Jews that could be found. We find that under the rulership or the terror reign, the reign of terror, by Pharaoh, when Pharaoh sought to annihilate the people of God. We see that under the days of King Herod, when Herod ordered all of the children to be murdered, two years of age and under, and he was a try, there was an attempt made to exterminate the people of God. But here we are in 2025 and God's little people are still here. I want to say this from the beginning that God is not through with the Jew. And I want you to see that the devil has a great hatred for the Jewish people. Notice with me, and this just by way of a personal study, it might be good for you to study the four greats of Revelation twelve. We see a great sign, or as it said, a great wonder. We see a great red dragon, we see a great eagle, and we see great wrath. By the way, God never exaggerates when he speaks. There's something significant in those four things. But as we study this passage, we're introduced first if you're making notes to a woman. Beginning in verse number one, we're told this woman appeared a great wonder in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars. To understand who that woman is, we've got to go all the way back to Genesis 37. And in Genesis 37, Joseph talks about the moon, the stars coming, and bowing down at his feet. We're talking about none other than the nation of Israel. This woman is a representation of Israel, God's people. Then we read in verse number two that she being with child cried, travailing in birth and pained to be delivered. And verse 5 says, She brought forth a man-child who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron, and her child was caught up unto God and to his throne. Well, beloved, there's no question about who that child is. That child is the Lord Jesus Christ. That's our Redeemer. We see the Lord Jesus being a a a product, if you will, of the nation of Israel. Let me say right from the beginning that hatred for Israel has the smell of sulfur upon it. Whether it comes from religious circles or irreligious circles, it does not matter The devil hates Israel. And I don't want to side with that rascal on anything. Amen. But here he has a hatred for, and notice his hatred for Israel is in proportion to the birth of this man-child. This man-child is our Redeemer. In Genesis chapter 3 and verse number 15, we're told that there would be one who would be born of woman. And this one would be the Messiah, the Savior, the Redeemer, the promised seed, and he would crush that serpent's head. And because of that prophecy, the hatred of the devil boiled over for the nation of Israel and for our Redeemer. And then we see this red dragon in verse number 3. The Bible says there appeared another wonder in heaven And behold, a great red dragon having seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns upon his heads. And you'll notice in verse 4 that his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven and did cast them to the earth, and the dragon stood before the woman, which was ready to be delivered, for to devour her child as soon as it was born. Now, if you know your New Testament, you know that when Jesus was born, Herod set out to eliminate all the little children, just like Moses did. And he wanted to destroy those manschild. He wanted to destroy those young men, those boys, those baby boys that were born. You know what he was doing? He's that great red dragon. He was using King Herod, but behind Herod was the hand of the great red dragon. And he's ready to devour that man child. But I love verse number five. She brought forth a man child. The devil was ready to devour him, but God Almighty was protecting him. And no matter what the devil wanted to do, God still rules at the end of the day, and that man-child was born. You know what? Listen, when when uh little Moses came into the world, God was sending a deliverer. And the devil knew a deliverer was coming. And so uh uh again uh little children were being murdered and babies were being put to death. But there was a God in heaven that says uh that there's one child you're not going to touch. There's one that has got my hand on him and and and God supernaturally gave Moses his life and existence. Now you and I need to remember tonight that God still is in charge of the affairs of men. Now there may be danger, there may be decrees, there may be the devil, but there's still the divine power seated on the throne. God is still God. And I'm glad to report to you that he's still able to deliver. And though he hated this man-child, wanted to devour this man-child, God said, I'm going to deliver this man-child, and he was born into this world. The origin of the problem is found in these first six verses. Preacher, what's going on in the world today? That dragon's mad. And he hates Israel, and he hates Jesus. And he hates anybody associated, affiliated, or connected in that circle. And he's going to do everything in his power to bring about the demise, the devastation, and the destruction of all three. But I'm glad I've got a Bible that tells me that God has already decreed better things. You know what? He wants to destroy the church of the living God. But I'm glad to report to you the days coming when Jesus is coming back for her. He's going to call her up and the dead in Christ will rise first And then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. There's going to be the deliverance of his church. There's going to be the deliverance of his peoples. And as we read on in this chapter, we realize That God is going to do something with his people. Look in verse number six, please. It says the woman, and again, remember that's Israel. Fled into the wilderness, where she hath a place prepared of God, that they should feed her there a thousand two hundred and three score days. That roughly comes to the three and a half years, the time, times, double times, so that's three and a half. So for three and a half years, there's going to be this divine protection. By the way, you ever read Matthew 24, 13? They that endure to the end shall be saved. I'm amazed that we read that and say, well, now see, if you hold on, you'll get in. That hadn't that's got nothing to do with you. That's got nothing to do with you as a Gentile. That's got nothing to do with you as a Christian. They that endure to the end shall be saved. Somebody said, Well, if you die believing, if you die uh, you know, doing right, well, I'm here to tell you that my salvation's not wrapped up in me or my performance. My salvation is a work of God. Salvation's of the Lord. And beloved , if you're saved, you're going to heaven just as good as if he was already there, not because you're any account, but because of his account Because of what he's done for you and I on Calvary. But we see here this promise: they that endure to the end shall be saved. I don't know if you mark in your Bible, but I write in my Bible beside that, every Bible I use, I write beside that verse Israel. That's a Jewish promise. That's a promise to those Jews that endure to the end. Now they're fleeing, they're going to run. Where are they going to run? Now some Bible scholars believe they're going to run to that red rock city of Tetra. It is a naturally, easily defendable place. I don't know that if that's the particular place. I don't believe God needs nature on his side, but he often does use natural things. And we see it here, the earth is going to do some things. God's gonna there's going to be some aids come along and help out in this battle But I do know this, that God is going to supernaturally protect his people, and if that group of people live, that group of people who live To the end of the tribulation, the Bible says there's going to come a day after the great battle of Armageddon, the Lord Jesus is going to reveal himself to the people. He's going to reveal himself to the nation of Israel. They'll see the scars in his hands, and a nation shall be born in a day. All those that endure to that end shall be saved. Every living Jew is going to be born again in a moment of time when they see the Master. What a work of mercy What a work of mercy. Where you'll never speak listen, you've never seen anything like it, and you'll never see anything like it till that glad day. The house of Israel, it says, will mourn. They'll look on him whom they pierced. Can you imagine? And by the way, dear Christian, you and I are going to have a ringside seat. Or or should I say a horse side seat? Saddle side seat, however you put that. We're gonna be with it. And we're going to watch the great revelation as he reveals himself and shows those people, I am your Messiah. And a nation. Think about that. A nation born in a day. Oh, what a day that's going to be. You see, there might be a lot of people who theologically have given up on Israel There may be a lot of people internationally who've given up on Israel. There may be a lot of people who ignorantly have given up on Israel, but God's not through with them. God's not finished with that little nation. He's got great plans for them. And let me just say, while I'm in the neighborhood, God's not through with you either. If you're drawing breath and and listen, you've got semblance of understanding God has not, he's not through with you. The devil might say you've gone too far. The liar, uh deceiver, dammer of man's souls might say there's no hope for you, but I've got news for you on the authority of the Word of God. God's grace can go further than your dirty, wicked sin. He can save you in the midst of your lostness. He can change you and deliver you and set you free. Aren't you glad tonight that God has the power to save to the very uttermost? You'll not look at a man so bad, you'll not look at a person so evil. You'll never look at somebody so wicked and say they can't get in. Might as well just give up. I'm glad God don't give up I'm glad God's power is able to listen, He can save anybody. You drive these streets and see people ruining their lives and destroying, you think there's no hope. I got news for you, there's hope. That hope's in Jesus Christ. There is not a drug so powerful that Jesus can't set them free. I believe that. I believe that in all my heart. I've told you about my preacher, brother in Alabama. If you ever get to meet him, you see a living testimony of somebody who can get saved and be changed by God's power, though their mind has been nearly destroyed with drugs. But God had mercy on that man and gave him a portion of his mind back. And he said, Lord, if you'll just let me read and settle my mind to where I can read, I'll read your word. And God did it. And then the Lord started dealing with him about preaching. He said, Lord, I can't keep my thoughts together and that train of thought. If you'll just help me do that, I'll preach. Guess what he does now? He preached. He's pastored now for nearly 17, 18 years. You know why God saved him. God reached him. God broke the power that those drugs had on him that hold that lifestyle that he lived in and he was generationally living in this. His dad, his granddad, they were all outlaws and lived wicked lives and a and and and didn't know anything about God and his word and salvation. But somebody gave him the gospel. Somebody told him Jesus saves. Somebody cared, by the way, it was in the jailhouse where they locked him up for the hundredth time. And somebody cared enough to say, hey, God can save somebody like you. He said, There's no way. You don't know how bad I am. And that dear preacher brother said, Sir I've got news for you. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all iniquity, all sin, and I'm going to report to you tonight he can still save He has the power to do it. There's no one too far, too gone, too bad, too dirty, that Jesus Christ can't reach I'm grateful for that tonight. I'm grateful the Bible makes that plain in no uncertain terms. Have you noticed all these people in the Bible were at the very end of themselves? That blind man, that leper man, all these others there at there at the end. That that dear woman with the issue of blood spent all her living. I mean, she'd just tried everything she could try And yet nothing could help. But then Jesus come along. And when Jesus comes along, he always makes a difference. The Lord Jesus will change oh, I'm glad to tell you he'll save and change anybody who will trust him. You say, but preacher, this person I love is getting older, and they've hardened their heart. They may have. And and they're walking on dangerous ground. But the truth is God can save old people like He can save young people. God has the power to get a hold of an old man like he does a young man. He can save it age don't mean nothing to the Lord. His power can reach down and save someone who's been a rebel their whole life and turn them around. Oh, thank God for the power of Jesus Christ to save. Israel Has been cast out, scattered, according to the Word of God, under the judgment of the Lord, because of their dealings with God Himself and His Messiah And yet God says there's going to come a day I'll gather them back. Just like that little that hen gathers her little chicks, I'm going to gather my people back. I'm going to put them in the land, and when I get them in the land, I'm going to make myself known. And those that live, who are alive at the end of that tribulation, are going to be saved by the wonderful grace of God. You say, how are they going to get in? Same way you did. Let me say this. There's no two salvations in the Bible. For by grace are you saved through faith. And they'll get in like you got in? Just look look like just like every man's got to get in. Hallelujah. Thank God he is not through Israel's a living testimony to a God who is merciful. Now we move from the woman to a war. And God does something rather unusual here. He rolls back the curtains of heaven and lets you peek up there and see what's going on. There is an unseen war that is that is going on, and there is an unseen world that is hidden to our eyes. I've often watched little children, and you know they're they're uh innocent little things I remember in a tent meeting we were in in Lenore, North Carolina, and and it God was really moving in that tent meeting, and I was running a camera for a pastor a and and filming the services and what have you. And there was a little baby in the in a little thing they towed him in, I forget what you call 'em, a little Thank you, sir. And they they had that little rascal sitting right at down below me. I'm up on a a perch like this running the camera. And that little thing's sitting right there And boy, when God got to moving in that service, that little baby's eyes got bigger than I'd ever seen a baby's eyes. And he was looking up into the top of that tent. And he had the prettiest smile on his little face. And the more he looked, the more goosebumps I got on my body. I began to wonder, what's he looking at? And every once in a while I was about half scared to look, because I was afraid of what I might see And I looked up in the and there wasn't nothing up in the tent that I could see. You say, what was going on? I don't know what was going on, but I do know this, there's an unseen world. There's an unseen world. You remember when that young servant of the prophet said, Oh master, what shall we do? We're surrounded by the enemy. And he said, Lord, open his eyes. And when the Lord opened his eyes, what did he see? He saw the great armies of God sitting on the mountains above, and he saw that unseen world. Now the Bible opens the view to an unseen world in Revelation chapter 12. Look in verse 7. The Bible says there was war in heaven. Notice the location. It's in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon. You say, why Michael? He's the one who's commissioned to watch over Israel. And then it says, the dragon fought and his angels and prevailed not, neither was their place found any more in heaven. There was a war. Now you say, preacher, I know there's a war going on between the powers of darkness and the power of God. I know that. But this is a war different This is a war separate. This is a coming event. This is something that's going to happen on the calendar of God, and there's going to be a war in heaven like never been fought before. And you watch this, it says, in this war, the Lord's going to get the victory. In verse 8, he prevailed not, neither was there place found anymore in heaven. And watch this: the great dragon. Was cast out. That old serpent called the devil and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world, he was cast out. Look where he was cast out to into the earth. And his angels were cast out with him. And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, now is come salvation and strength. And the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ, for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accuse them before our God day and night. Now please hear me. I believe in this war, when the Lord gets the victory, the devil no longer has access to heaven. He no longer, you say preacher, can he get up there? He sure can. He's the prince of the power of the air. Isn't that what he's called? He's the prince of the power of the air. Job, we learn from the book of Job that he makes report. He shows up and says, Reporting, sir. And as he's been walking to Jesus, the Bible tells us that God says, you know, what have you been doing? Where have you been? Walking to and fro. But this war is going to end it. This war is going to stop that. This war is going to seal heaven up to the accuser of the brethren. Those accusations he's he's lamb blasting God's little children with, those those those uh pleas to get his hands on, those That workings of Satan, this war is going to put an end, and God's going to throw him down to the earth and say, You're not coming here no more. Heaven's going to be sealed up. Now watch this. Verse 11, we see the devil loosed. I like this. Verse 12, it says, Therefore, rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them. Why are we rejoicing? We're rejoicing because he no longer has access. He no longer is accusing the brethren. He's been cast to the earth. But look what verse 12 says, Woe did the inhabitants of the earth and see. For the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time. He's mad. He's mad and he knows his time to do anything about it short. So his fury is unleashed upon the earth. I want you to notice that he's confined to the earth and the inhabitants pay the price. He's confined to the earth and he begins his tirade. He's sort of like a what was it Ahithophel said about David? He said David's like a bear robbed of its cubs. I'm going to tell you something. There's nothing more angry than an upset bear who's had its cubs hurt or taken, or it feels threatened. I don't know why the other night I couldn't sleep and I was thinking about one of our fishing expeditions and we spooked an old mother bear and she must have had cubs the way she acted. And she backed us out of a fishing hole we were in half a mile, and I believe the only thing that kept her from really hurting us was there was a loud car. I don't like those cars that sound like they got a bumblebee stuck up the tailpipe. But when that thing came by and he he saw us down there, he didn't see the bear, but he saw us down there, and to be a smart elic, he revved the motor up and it ran, ran, you know, sounded like a little bumblebee humming. And when he did that, it scared the daylights out of her, and she turned around and ran as fast as she could. Josiah was just little. Because he was little, I was going to feed him first. Sarah was a little bigger. She was number two. And if he if that didn't fill him up, I guess I'd have had to be number three. But man, I'll tell you, she was mad. She was foaming. Her little jaws were popping. She had run and smack the ground and then back up and then run and smack the ground. And I never did see the cubs, whether they ran off or she hid them. I don't know what happened. But I know she was mad And I'm here to tell you that Earth has never seen the anger they're about to see when the devil's confined to the earth. He's going to unleash a rage And he's going to show a horror that the world is yet to see. That's why we see beginning in verse 13, the wrath. Look at the wrath. When the dragon saw that he was cast under the earth, he persecuted the woman which brought forth the man-child. Look what he does. He turns his anger on Israel. He turns his hatred on the people of God. Notice why? The one that brought forth the man child. He hates Israel because of Jesus. By the way, Christian, he hates you because of Jesus too. He don't hate you because you're you. He don't hate you because you're such a good Christian. He hates you because you belong to Jesus. And Jesus belongs to you. We see the hatred here. Now notice this about the nation of Israel. They're hated, and then they're hidden. They're hunted, but thank God they're helped Notice it says that the one and to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she is nourished for a time and times and a half a time from the face of the serpent. For three and a half years, God's going to protect her. By the way, those wings like eagles, that's the supernatural delivering power of God. When you read about the wings of an eagle, it represents God's enabling. And so here comes God in his great power, and he enables these people to flee away into the wilderness. And he nourishes them. That's a beautiful word. He cares and cherishes and feeds and protects these people in this wilderness time from the face of the serpent. Then watch this. The serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood. He's after this woman. He wants to destroy her. He'll use the elements of the earth if he can. And he tries. But watch what happens. The earth helped the woman. And it's not the first time the earth helped the woman God's made time stand still for this woman. He has. God's made time stand still. He's paused. The moving of the planets and so on. He's put a he's put he's hit the he's hit the the the pause button and everything stopped so that they could win a battle. God is again showing us that though the devil is using the elements of the earth, that he still is the master of them all. I see that little band of disciples trying to sail across the sea and they're trying to get over to the other side because Jesus told them to go. But the Bible says the wind was contrary. Now who's in the wind? I believe the Prince of the Power of the Air. He was stirring up a storm to put this this boat full of disciples in the bottom of the sea so they'd not be a bother to him no more But aren't you glad that what the devil tries to use to destroy God's people, God Himself walks on like a footstool Here he comes out of the heavens, uh out of the mountaintop where he's been praying, and down across that sea he goes, walking on the waves that are threatening to sink the ship of those disciples. And I love this. When he got there, he said to those men, It is I. He's the eye of the storm, by the way. I've been reading about these storms and I learned today uh something real important that the eye of a storm controls the storm. Do you know that? It dictates the direction the storm goes. Not the outer bands, but that eye. That eye is the control center, it's the brain, if you will, of the storm. And aren't you glad and I know, now look, you you uh uh you know you you uh English scholars don't come and say, well preacher, it's spelled I, not E Y E. We're talking well just just hear me please, uh what I'm trying to say. The reality is, is that he is, whether he's E Y E or I, he is the eye of the storm. He's still the one who controls the storm. And these these wicked, listen, this wicked enemy is wanting to destroy these disciples, but he says, peace be still. And thank God he calmed the storm. Now hear me please tonight. The devil is going to use many things during the tribulation to destroy the nation of Israel, but God is going to fight for her. God is going to come and show her favor. And because of this, they will be saved. They will be protected. The Bible says he swallowed up, the earth swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth. Now look at verse 17 And the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ. Do you know what's going to happen in the tribulation? This rage from the enemy is going to drive Israel right into Jesus' arms. It's going to drive them. They've got the testimony of Jesus Christ. It's going to drive them to faith in him. It's going to drive them, as I said, at the conclusion of the uh of the great uh battle there. It there's going to be the revelation and they're going to put their faith in him just like you've had to put your faith in him And they're going to be saved. It's going to drive them. And the very thing he thought would bring them down is going to be the very thing God uses to lift them up. Isn't it a beautiful thing that often the darkest times of the church God has used it to be some of the brightest days Those dark periods of the of the dark ages, those times of the shedding of blood, listen, the shedding of the martyr's blood was just seed for the Church of the Living God. The more of them the devil tried to kill, the more of them got converted. They put them in jail and they win their jailers They take them and put them and nail them on a tree and try to kill them, or they burn them at the stake, and as they die with such serenity, And die with such victory, many around watching and cheering are often on their faces crying out, Save me too. That's the power of God's gospel. That's the power of Jesus Christ. And I want you to remember that this terrible persecution in the end is going to play right into the plan of God and what the devil thought would be the worst, God's going to use it to bring out the best. Listen, God is not through with Israel. They still have part in God's redemptive plan. And even In the tribulation, Jesus Christ is still the answer. He's still the answer. He's going to be the answer for Israel. But on this side of things, let me remind you, he's still the answer. You'll look. Hey, some of you might in your heart be on a search. Maybe you know all this, but you think there must be something more. You know all of this, but you say, preacher, there's got to be a better way. You know all of this, but you perhaps think that there's somehow or another you're you're going to find something that'll top it. That'll be far better than this thing of old time religion, of being saved by grace, of living by faith, walking with Jesus Christ. I've got news for you. You'll search until you are at the end of your time. And you'll find out nothing. Nothing. There's nothing there. The devil makes empty promises. The world offers empty pleasures. All of the trapments and trinkets that the devil lays out and plays out are just Empty vain things Jesus alone satisfies. Hey, when they get up here and sing and they get a little excited and get so excited they they don't know when to start nor finish That don't hurt me. That don't bother me at all. You know why? Jesus has given something they didn't have nowhere else. They found in Jesus something that they couldn't find nowhere else. They're not religious. They got over that religion, thank God. They're not just members of a church. They got more than that. And you better have more than that They're not just people that are following a man. Thank God they've met the man Christ Jesus, the Savior of their soul, and they love him and want to serve him. Some of us who are older, some of us who have been saved a while, it'd be good for us to get back yonder and realize who it is that did it for us too. It would be good for us to go back to the well where we first got to drink of water. It would be good for us to go back to the one who saved us. Don't get so saved that you forget what it was to be lost. Don't get settled in your salvation that you're not grateful for what God did for you. You would be in hell like everybody else were it not for God's mercy. God don't owe you or me nothing. He don't owe us a thing I got a friend that got saved. He was an MMA uh fighter, and he wa he grew up in church, knew all the lingo, played the game, and he was full of the devil. And when he got free, he went out in the world, and man, he tried to make a name for himself, and he's pretty good. He made a pretty good name. But he realized that at the end of the day, all he had was just a name. And all he had was a little bit of money that you could blow in a heartbeat. And all you had was all the pleasures and all the drugs and all the alcohol. And my friend, he got to the bottom and he looked up and said, Lord, would you save somebody like me? And God saved him. God saved him. A few years ago I heard him stand in church. He was singing, You don't owe me anything, Father. The more he got to singing that, and the more he sung it, the more he understood it. And the more he realized that God had really saved him, and the Lord didn't owe him nothing. The Lord didn't have to save him, but he saved him by his grace and mercy. He got so excited, you see, back there they they wear their choir robes and what have you. He just about shredded that thing. He got so excited, jumping around and kidding you so Well bless God, that would ruin the dignity of my worship. Well, it may. Some of your dignified worship needs to be ruined because you need a real meeting with Jesus Christ. You need to meet the master. Your religion might make you a little stoic, but salvation will make you different. Thank God for a salvation that'll change you. And boy, that boy, he still got that excitement in his heart. Why? Because the Lord don't owe him that. He just saved him. He said, I don't know why he'd save somebody like me. But that's the kind God's looking for. Oh, beloved, hear me. If you're not saved, my friend, you need to be. And you can be. Because Jesus died on the cross for your sin. He paid your penalty in full. Friend, he was put in the grave, and three days later he got up. And he's alive and well. And he'll save every man, woman, boy, girl, teenager, young adult. He don't care who you are or where you're from, he'll save you if you'll call upon him. You need to be saved if you're not. And if you're saved, we need to get stirred up about stuff that's important. I've always been amazed at what stirs us and how little it matters in eternity. There's people right now get more stirred up about politics than they do the precious son of God. There'll come a day, I don't care what your your affiliation is, it'll be done. You hear me? Done There's not going to be Republican or Democrat in the in the Great Tribulation. There's going to be the rule of the man of sin. Amen. We get upset about what the government's doing, we get upset about what this one's doing, we get upset about that individual. When's the last time you got upset over men and women dying and going to hell When's the last time your heart got broke over the condition of the lost world we're living in? And realize that the answer, look, you you can get them to join your party and they'll still die and go to hell. You can get them to join this church and they'll still die and go to hell. But if they ever meet Jesus Christ, they'll be saved forever and forever. Beloved, we've got a job to do, and we need to get stirred up about what's really important in the hour that we're living in. You're not here to just simply enjoy life. We're here to make a difference in time and eternity. I can still hear that little short, fiery marine preacher, Dr. James Whitden. And he would challenge us every Friday night in chapel. And he would say, Now boys, leave this place and make you mark. Don't go out here and play games. Don't go out here and get involved in church politics. Don't go out here and run church circles and camps and try to be the big man on the pole. He said go out here and make your mark for time and eternity. Preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. Tell sinners Jesus saves. Remember what really matters. And I'd say to you, my brothers and sisters, make your mark Tell people about Jesus Christ. There's people across your path, they'll never cross mine, they'll never across the person next to you, but God puts them your way so you can point them to Him. He puts them in your path so you can tell them. He puts them in your path so you can point them to Jesus. We're not here just to say, preacher, I'm looking forward to the good life. You know what the good life is? Give your life to Jesus. Surrender your all to Him. Say, Lord, here am I whatever you want to do with me, wherever you want me to go, whatever it is you want me to do, however you want me to live, Lord, I'll live my life for you. Truth is, you don't know anything about living. Until you give your life to Him. Paul said it like this: I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. That's life. You want to live? Oh, preacher, if I could just make so many money so much money. They tell me when old Henry Ford died, he was just wanting to make one more dollar. One more dollar. That's just all he's if I could just make one more dollar. You can't make enough money to get satisfied. They'll not come up with some crazy concoction of drugs that'll give you that charge that you're looking for, that'll make life worth living. Fact is, you'll need something more and something bigger the next day. But I'm glad to report to you today on the authority of God's word, Jesus Christ, is enough. to get up in the morning and go to work for. He's enough to get up, open your eyes and say thank you for another day. He's enough to take another step and say, I want to serve you with all of my strength and health and life and breath. I want to live for what matters. Because you're not taking your money, you're not taking your possessions, but you can take some precious souls with you. You can take some precious souls. What a day that's going to be. When you really see the impact of your life for Christ. You may feel like you've done nothing. I've told you about the dear man on George Street. And how all he could do was just give a gospel tract out, and he purposed to do it as much as he could, and and I guess George Street was a uh a well known uh nighttime entertainment area And that little man, as long as he could, would just run out and put a gospel tract in somebody's hand and say, Do you know where you'll spend eternity? And he lived his whole life and never heard of anybody getting saved. Whole life. But he stayed faithful. But God before he died let him meet someone, and God made the circumstances come about To where the that he heard about he w this man was given his testimony and he was in this church, he said, I got saved. There was a little white-haired man, gave me a gospel pamphlet, told me that, a asked me where I'd spend eternity And and he said, I got saved, and and the preacher's sitting there, and he's thinking, That happened to me. He was he was he was in the military and And he was on leave and had hit that he said that that strip, that club, that that place of of of all these nighttime entertainment. He said that little man gave me a track. He said I tried to throw that thing away, get away from it, I couldn't, and I got saved And they started meeting people, and before you know it, they'd made about 40, 45 contacts of people who had gotten saved. Most of them were preaching the gospel. And somebody found out that there was a man, it was in Australia, and he went to this church and he and he he he was given his testimony and he said, I think I know that man And they said, Really, yeah, he's shut in now. He he he can't get out, but but but I believe this is the man. And they took him and introduced him and said, Sir, are you the man that used to Oh yes he said, I I purposed in my heart. I I wasn't in bondage about it, but I wanted to give out at least ten tracts a day on the street. He said, I did it all those years. He said, my health is broken, I can't do it anymore. But but but I I I pray that God used it And he said, Sir, I want you to know, God saved me. And the other one said, I want you to know, God saved me. And before that man died, I think he lived just about eight months after this meeting. Before that man died, all 40 plus of these men let him know that they had gotten saved through his efforts. Now that ain't going to happen to most of us But there's going to come a day when you get home to heaven, the Lord's going to say, let me show you something. Let me show you this soul that got saved because you left the gospel tract Let me show you this individual who believed on the Lord Jesus Christ because you gave them their testimony. Let me show you this individual that you invested in their life and they got saved. Hey, church Then you won't care how many houses you own. You won't care how much land you had. None of that's going to matter up there. You're walking on streets of gold. We're living in gates of pearl. We're worshiping a God who's eternal. The only thing that's going to be mattering there is whom we brought with us. Live for what's important, church. Let's make living what it's all about. That's living for Jesus Christ. Stand with me, please. Father, help us now. You know the need of every heart. If there's a dear lost soul under the sound of my voice, please make a miserable in sin.