Christ risen from the dead. You say, Pastor, that happened two thousand years ago. How can we be so sure that he's alive? And there are a lot of things that we could talk about this morning. We could talk about the Bible's credibility. The Bible tells us that heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. And the Bible already has had hundreds of prophecies fulfilled centuries after they were given. The Old Testament foretold the coming of the Lord Jesus, and just as it said, Jesus was born. And you could put all of that together and say, really, this is a book we can trust. We could talk about the credibility of the eyewitnesses. As John reminded us this morning, above 500 saw him at once. One or two people saying, Well, I saw him, that would give us all reason to question. But when five hundred at one time saw the Lord And they said, we saw him. And they witnessed the fact that he was alive and well. And rather than deny the fact that he was alive. Every one of those witnesses would say, I'll die first. And many of them did. They died for that testimony. We could talk about the soldiers and their accountability because all they had to do to quieten this noise down was to produce a body. And they never produced a body. You know why they didn't produce a body? There's no body to be produced. The Lord Jesus arose. But we could also talk about the tr the uh extra biblical evidence that Jesus arose And historians, too, in particular, a Jewish historian and a Roman historian wrote abundantly about the fact. They wrote it as a fact. Not talking about Bible writers. or authors, but we're talking about uh historians who wrote other things, wrote very clearly, this man Jesus was dead and then suddenly he was alive. And although they disagreed as to how all of that came about, they recorded the fact that he was alive. But to me, all of that means nothing in the sense That I believe the greatest evidence that Jesus is alive are the lives that He changes. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. The fact that Jesus Christ changes lives is a is an ongoing, not just a past testimony. Not even a recent past testimony, but a present and the potential for a future testimony that Jesus Christ is alive. In Acts 22, the very man who wrote those words of 1 Corinthians 15, but now is Christ risen from the dead. In Acts 22, he stood and he gave his testimony. He said, I'm going to tell you what happened to me. And he begins by saying, first, I hate it this way. He was a hater of the Christian. He hated the Christ of the Christian. He hated all the things that had to do with the person of Jesus Christ, and he hated them so much that he hunted them down and traveled to far reaches to find them, arrest them, bring them back, and have them killed. That's how bad he hated them. He wasn't content just to shame them or mock them. He said, I'm going to destroy them. And he tried. He tried until one day on the road to Damascus. He met this man, he tried to destroy the followers of. And the Bible says that I, in 1 Corinthians 15, was one born out of due time. In other words He said, I came along and and it it was like I was uh I was one of them that you wouldn't think would be, wasn't supposed to be, and here I am, and now I'm a Christian. I'm telling you that religion could never do that in a man's life. Judaism had its hold. It was a religious tradition of that day, and it was powerful. Paul said, I was a zealous. He said I was zealous for my religion. He was, uh, if you if you could say it this way, he was a Hebrew of the Hebrews. He was the who's who of that crowd. And he said, because of that allegiance, I I followed this hatred and I followed this antagonism, and I said, I'm going to destroy this name. But then a few verses later, you find him preaching that name. You find him preaching this Christ that he hated. You find him preaching, and here's what he said in 1 Corinthians chapter 1. He said, But we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling block, unto the Greeks foolishness. But unto us which are saved, it's the power of God. You know why? Because we recognize that the gospel of Jesus Christ is still the power of God unto salvation. We know what Jesus can do for you. It's not a boastful statement, it's just an honest testimony that Jesus Christ saves. It's the reality of the fact that he is able to save to the uttermost them that come to God by Him. He has the power to change our lives. You say, well, Pastor, how do you know he changed his lives? Well, I just want to say three real quick things. Number one, because he made a promise to. He said, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man put them out of my hand. He made a promise that if any man be in Christ, he is, not will be, not hopes to be, not perhaps could be, but he is a new creature. He made a promise. He made the promise that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved And my friends, you you carry a Bible. I hope you've got a Bible, and in that Bible you'll find out God's kept every promise He's ever made. And the ones that he's not kept, he soon will keep, and will fulfill every promise. Here we are, two thousand years later. Still following this man. Still following. And you say, preacher, why do we follow him? Not because he's a man, but because he's like a man that was like no other. He's the God man He's the Son of God. And he declared himself to be by power because of the resurrection from the dead. See, he's made a promise to us. And we know he changes lives because of his promise. Many of the people I watched in this program as I saw them portray their part. I know them individually and personally, and I know the difference Jesus has made in their lives. I know that he's very real, not just to them, not just Uh uh to uh to just one or two of us here, but to multitudes have put their faith in Jesus Christ. I have watched him change them It's not about getting into a church and following all the rules. You can do that until you're the best rule keeper that ever lived. You can get in line and do everything you're supposed to do and still be the same old person on the inside. But when you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and get saved , There's something happens fundamentally on the inside that makes you something that you weren't before you got saved. And by the way, you don't have to be the worst of sinners doing whatever you might want to deem as bad sin to need a new heart. The Bible says we've all sinned. And come short of the glory of God. And every one of us need a Savior from our sin. If a if it if we all were just honest And I don't know why that's so hard to do anymore, but it seems to be hard to find honest folk. But if we were all just honest this morning, we would admit we're all sinners. When you go close your eyes at night and pillow your head, you recognize the fact that I I sin. I may not know what sin is, I may not know all of the sins that I commit, but I do know this. I know I've sinned. And I know that there must be a remedy, there's got to be a solution for my sin. And that's why people go to church, and that's why people become religious, and that's why we do all these things to try to do something about our sin. But my dear friend, the good news is it's already been taken care of. Your sin has already been paid for on the cross of Calvary. Jesus suffered, bled, and died. They put him in the grave, and because he was God, you can't kill God. You can't kill God no more than you can extinguish the su the shining of the sun, my friend. But but I'll tell you when they put him in the grave, thank God he came out. And he changes all who put their trust in him Now I hear somebody say, preacher, I I uh I know some Christians who aren't changed. No, you know people who call themselves Christians. Who need to be converted. Because the truth is you can sit in a church, you can call yourself a Christian, and I can go home and sit in the garage and say I'm a car, but I'm going to walk out of there on two legs with the mouth like a man And I'm still going to be a man because I can't change what I am. But I'll tell you, Jesus can change who you are. Jesus has the power to save, and there's nobody too far, too bad, too wicked Too sinful, too dirty, that Jesus Christ can't save them. It's a promise that he's made. But not only is that a promise, it's power. It's power that he has. He has the power to save. Marinath the Baptist Church can't do one thing for you. Uh your Christian mother or father, and thank God for them, can't do one thing for you. Your Christian brother, sister, friend, whoever, they can't do anything for you. You say, I know what I'll do. I'll go up there and be baptized. Baptism can't do anything for you. When Jesus lived on the earth, there was a man who couldn't walk, and Jesus said to him, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. And those Pharisees and scribes got all upset and said , Who can forgive sins but God? And Jesus said to them, What's easier? For me to say, thy sins be forgiven, or rise up and walk? See, he had power to do both. And he has the power to save everyone who will put their faith in him. He has power to save you. I've got a good friend and and he used to say, I cannot, I cannot live the Christian life. And I'd say to him, I'd call his name, I'd say, No, you can't. I can't. Nobody can do it. But Jesus Christ in you can The living Christ will make a difference in your life if you'll but trust him. He has the power to save. And then this I want you to notice in closing, it is the purpose that he came. It's the purpose for which he came. The Bible says, here's what Jesus said in Luke 19, 10, for the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. That's the whole reason he came. He wasn't born to do miracles, though he did a lot of them. He wasn't born to uh to uh gather crowds and teach phenomenal lessons. In fact, the best message ever preached was preached by the best preacher who ever lived, and that's the Lord Jesus from the Sermon on the Mount. But that wasn't why he came. He didn't come just to start a new religion like we need another religion. Somebody said we need religion like we need a hole in our head. We need ether. But I'll tell you what he did come to do. He came to save lost people. He came to forgive sin. He came to make you and I new creatures in him. He came to give us eternal life. And my friend, listen, all of us know this to be true. It is appointed unto men once to die. We all have an appointment. I don't know when that appointment is, you don't know when that appointment is, but we all have that appointment. And after this, the judgment. There's only a few things going to matter, in fact, precious few, when it comes time to keep that appointment. Most importantly, am I ready? Am I ready? You say, preacher, how in the world does a man get ready to die? You know, in fact, I don't think you're ready to live until you're ready to die. But when you're ready to die, then you're ready to live. You say that don't make sense. I know it don't, but when you trust him, you'll understand. When you realize that, listen, when I know my sin is forgiven The Bible tells us that Jesus Christ is the forgiver of sin. He'll put it away. He shed his blood. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sin. Jesus shed his blood to put your sin away. It's not the water that washes sin away. It's the blood of Jesus Christ. I'm trusting that. I've believed on the Lord Jesus. And and I know that he that he has the power to forgive sin and then give me peace about eternity. See He talks about it in this way. Paul kind of mocks death in 1 Corinthians 15. He says, Grave, where's thy stain? Death, where's the victory? Where's this threat that you hold over man's head all of his life? He said it's gone. Why? Because Jesus Christ conquered death. And when you trust him, here's what you know. To be absent from the body, present with the Lord. When you trust the Lord Jesus, here's what you know, and nobody wants to die. We all want to live as long as we can But we've got a peace in our heart knowing that when we do, we'll go to be with the Lord. Because He paid our sin debt. And our sin problem has been solved by the person of Jesus Christ. Now friend, I want to just say this morning as we close this meeting. All of this was to say this. Jesus is alive. Jesus saves and friend he can save you. Why, preacher, you don't know me. I don't have to know you. Here's what I know. For God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. I know that's true. I've put my faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ. What about you? The most important thing you'll settle is this thing of eternity. I appreciate you being here this morning, and I know uh you had family uh here or friends here in the program. They were glad you came too. But as we close this meeting in prayer, I'm going to encourage you, if you've never asked the Lord Jesus to be your Savior, here's the beauty of this, that Christ can save you right where you are. People say, but I've got to be in an altar, I've got to kneel down, I've got to do certain things. Oh no. It's not about the posture of your body, it's about the condition of your heart. If you'll cry out to him, that thief that hung on the cross, they didn't talk about him, but I'm going to talk about him in just a moment. That thief that hung there with Jesus as he died. He said something real simple. He just said, Remember me. When thou comest into thy kingdom, Lord, remember me. And do you know what Jesus said to him? He said, Today shalt thou be with me in paradise. He made one little plea for mercy. It wasn't theologically deep, it was just honest. Remember me, Lord. And I'll tell you what, if you'll just be honest, it don't have to be theologically deep. But if you'll just be honest and say, Lord, I'm a sinner and I need a savior, I'm asking you to save me, do you know what he'll do? He'll save you right on the spot. That's the kind of God he is. He saves to the uttermost. Those that come to God by Him, that is the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm going to invite you to stand as we bow our heads to pray.