Hebrews chapter number ten. I want us to pray and ask God to speak to our hearts this morning. And we're going to read the text after we pray. I want you to think this morning, there are four little words I'm going to highlight in this verse. And they are what God expects from us in light of the time that we're living in. Father, we need your help this morning. We thank you, Lord, that greater is He that is in me than He that is in this world. Lord, we ask for the working of your Spirit in every heart. We pray the Lord Jesus would be glorified in this place. We have no other reason to gather here except for Him. May our eyes, O Lord, be fixed on thee. We ask, Lord, you give us ears to hear what the Spirit saith Take us, Lord, above our small selves and help us to see the greatness of our mighty God. And Lord, we'll thank you for what you do, for we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Would you stand with me, please? I'm going to read Hebrews chapter 10, starting in verse number 19. Hebrews chapter number 10, verse number 19. Look what the Bible says. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus. By a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh. And having an high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith. Having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering. For he is faithful that promised. And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works. Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another And so much the more as you see the day approaching. I'm going to stop reading there, and I want you to look at those four words. So much the more. So much the more. Would you say those four words with me? So much the more. Once more, please. So much the more. I want to preach this morning on so much the more The Bible says, as you see the day approaching. Now, folks, you would have to be living in a cave. disconnected from everyone and everything, not to know there's a day approaching. You may not know what that day is, you may not know what's going to come with that day, but there's a day approaching Even lost people know things are about to go off the rails. You just stop and think about the the turmoil that we're living in. I know We've been here before, there've been trouble before, there's been all of those things before, but nothing has so come together like it has at this point. And you know what your Bible says, Christian? So much the more. So much the more. Not so much the less. So much the more. You can be seated. Thank you. I don't think I have to labor the point that the day that is approaching is the day what Peter calls, he calls it the day of God, the day of vengeance, the day of the Lord. This is a day of coming judgment. And friend, that day is approaching. And Paul wrote to these Christians And he said to them, I want you to know something when you see the day. Now you know what that tells me? There's some things I can see going on There are some things I can be aware of that are happening. Folks don't think for a moment that economically, politically, internationally, and all of these things that are happening are mere accidents or happenstance The Lord's got this thing on the right track. He's putting everything together. And I know if you've been raised around the Bible and the teachings of God's Word, you say I've heard that my whole life. Well get ready and you're gonna hear something else before long. You're gonna hear the trumpet sound and the Lord take his people home. But I'm telling you, friend, things are not happening on accident Things are happening just as God ordained. And I know this much. I know there's a God in heaven who's in charge. And my friends, you and I need to be so much the more. It grieves me this morning to see Christianity becoming so much the less. Let me say it grieves me this morning to see Christians becoming so much the less instead of being so much the more. So much the less. I met a fa a pastor, a missionary pastor in a state, if I called the state, and probably his name, many of you would know him, and he said, We're the only church in the state that has a Sunday night service anymore. You know what that is? So much the less. So much the less. That's where we're living. Now, preacher, I don't want to be inconvenienced So if you can organize the services around my golf times and around my activities in life, then I'll be okay with that. So you make sure you do that. And you know what I hear the Lord say? So much the more How many of you believe the devil's stepping it up? You won't know he is. He's turned the heat up. I'll tell you what, he's turned the heat up on some of you. He'll turn the heat up on any church that'll try to do right. He's turning the heat up on this world. He's he is stepping it up. He's not slacking He's not he's not going backwards, man. He's going forwards. Do you think we should do any less? I know we don't follow the devil as a pattern, but if the devil's stepping it up, do you think he not he doesn't know something? He's not omniscient, only God is. But he is not ignorant either. And he knows his Bible, and he knows your Bible, and he knows what the Lord said he's going to do. And here's what the devil knows that some of you ain't sure of yet. God does everything that he says he'll do. He knows that. The devil knows that, lock, stock, and barrel. He's absolutely convinced. He said, Destroy this temple. He's got living proof of this. Destroy this temple and in three days I'll rise I'll raise it up. And when Jesus was crucified on the cross three days later, they put him in the in the grave. He lay there for three days. He got up. You know why? Because he does everything he says he'll do. The devil knows that. And he says the day's approaching. So I better get busy. I better get busy. I want you to know something this morning that what this little statement is is such a powerful thing if you'll get it in your heart. And you as a last days Christian need to get this in your heart. I can't put it in your heart. Man, I wished I could. About the best thing I can do is reach ears, and some of you are in such a way I don't know that I can even reach ears this morning. But I'm gonna do my best. But I'll tell you, God in heaven can put something in your heart. He can burn this in your heart. And I believe God will do something with it if you'll let him. So much the more. So much the more. You know what that means? That means to increase in intensity, quantity, and quality. So much the more. I don't know about you, but I'm sick of so much the less. You notice how little, I mean, our whole world is just satisfied with just so much the less. You go to a restaurant and the service is so much the less. It really is. Nobody cares. Nobody cares. I I as we traveled I had to eat out, which I don't really like to do. And uh I got something and I thought, I wonder if they've got kindergartners back there fixing food Because that is exactly what this looks like and built this thing. It looks like a kindergartner. Threw it together. And no offense to the sweet little kindergarteners, because some of them could have done a whole lot better job. And and I I said I didn't say anything about it, I just kind of looked at it and and uh the the person at the cash register did did this. He went, What I thought, I'd like to tell you what, but I want to give you a gospel tract. So I'm just going to keep my what to myself and give you the Lord. But so much the less. Our whole culture in the last few years has has devolved to a place of just being satisfied with so much the less and listen to me, Christianity's falling in step with the same attitude. We're so much the less We're not going to be can inconvenienced or be called upon to make sacrifices or give anything above that which is just normal and mundane and routine. And you know what that is? That's so much the less What is this so much the more? Number one, it's a spirit. You know what our Lord taught us? If a man compeled thee to go a mile, go with him twain. Isn't that what our Lord said, Matthew 5. 41? You know what that is? That's so much the more. That's Jesus saying, look, you know what's going to mark you as one of mine? You're going to be one of those that goes above and beyond. You're going to be one of those that goes so much the more. You're going to give the extra mile. And I'll tell you what, our old selfish nature will say, Bless God, I've given up. I've done enough. I think one of the dangers of being an old getting older as a Christian is that we're content with what we have done and we forget we got something to do. Now you can retire from a factory or plant, but you don't ever retire from being a Christian. You'll be a Christian until you meet Christ. So much the more. Listen, it is not only a spirit that Jesus taught, but it is a commitment to excellence. Paul said this in Philippians approve things that are excellent. You remember in Malachi the people started giving God their leftovers? They brought blind and maimed and lame sheep and said, let's sacrifice him, because they're not doing us any good. We might as well we might as well let God have them. And Malachi said, take it to God. Take it to your governor, rather. Go to your governor and see if he would take the blind and the main lame. You take those leftovers to the governor and see what he says. And will you do that to God? That's not so much the more. So much the more says our God deserves our best. He still does. Whatever it is you're tasked with, it ought to be your best. I 've got in my my Bible a picture here of old Moody, D. O. Moody, and it says, my humble human vest filled with the Holy Spirit. Now, your best and my best may vary in level, but if it's our best, it's our best. Talking about giving God our best, so much the more. As now notice the context, as ye see that they approach it. When you see all this happening, don't back up as the Christian and do less. You step it up as a Christian and you be more, you do so much the more, you give yourself so much the more to the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a spirit of excellence. It's sad what passes off for Christianity in our day. It's sad that so little gets uh you know put out there and and has the name of the Lord Jesus on it. We need to stop every once in a while and remember who we represent. We represent the King of Heaven. He deserves our best, so much the more. But let me also point this out, and I believe this is where the rubber meets the road, so to speak. This so much the more is an act of obedience. Because God commanded it. Now you may be okay with your children saying, uh, why? But I'm thankful that I had parents that really didn't care whether I knew the why or not. They just wanted me to do the what. I'm not talking about being ignorant, but you know something. We we need to get back to having some authority. You need to have some authority in your home, but but whatever that may be, that's not the point of my message. The point of my message is God has authority in heaven and he says so much the more as you see the day approaching. And to disobey that is that. It's disobedience to a clear command from God's Word. So when I'm so much the less, I'm disobeying the Lord. Doesn't have anything to do with me and you, or you and the person next to you, or you and the church you belong to. It has everything to do with you and him. So much the more. Now as you see the day approaching, he said, I don't want you to back up. I don't want you to slack up. But listen, we're told, we're told in Matthew 24, because of the abundance of iniquity, the love of many will wax cold. I believe that has a lot of implications. But listen, I believe he's talking about our hearts, the hearts of man, because of the abundance of sin, are going to grow cold towards God. And it's happening. It's happening. I stood with the pastor and shook hands at the door And I heard people say things like this as they went out starting a missions meeting. I'll see you next week. And he's still young enough that he he really don't have a lot of tact, but he does know how to handle the truth. He said, next week we're having missions conference. Where are you going to be? Man, that was the most uncomfortable Sunday morning. He asked about ten people that. Where are you going to be? And you should have heard them. Some of them swallowed their bubblegum, about choked on their tongues. Where are you going to be? You know what that is? Hey, by the way, some of them were family. That got a little touchy. That's so much the less. I I I've I've I've done my thing to salve my conscience I've done my duty, so I feel good about myself. What about pleasing the Lord? What about please the Lord? I had a man say to me recently, he said, Well, you can't prove that we should go to church on Sunday night. I said, I got more Bible for it than you do, goes against it. Two times they met in the upper room on a Sunday evening and Jesus showed up. Twist. It was in an upper room that the Spirit of God came down, and I have reason to believe it was in an evening meeting when the Holy Ghost filled those believers. I'm just trying to say that we need to be so much the more kind of Christians. That's just one area. Every area needs us so much the more. Every area needs a whole new level of saying, Lord, by your help, I'm going to take it to the next level in my spiritual life. How many of you know? Maybe you work out. You may work out. Want to admit it, you do? Some of us try and don't do well. There you go. Okay, that gets the rest of us. How many of you know you can reach a level where you'll just stay? And you just can't get beyond that unless You step it up. You step it up. Unless you take it to a whole new level I mean, that's true in every part of our lives. We can get to a place of stationary. We can get to a to a plateau where we just kind of we kind of coast. And can I say to you, this it in time to coast If you're saved by the grace of God, you don't have time to coast. When this thing goes off the rails, you're going to wish you hadn't been coasting. As you see the day approaching, so much the more. It's time we realize the lateness of the hour, the intensity of the battle Now you may be living in an insulated or an isolated way and say, I I don't think aren't bad Things are pretty good where I'm at. Everything's okay. I've got news for you. Everything's not okay. And there is a spiritual battle that is being waged right now for the souls of men and women, and it's starting in the nursery. It's going after our children, and that warfare that is raging. Do you realize That everything happening in our culture today is a preparation for what's coming. It's getting us ready. It's getting us ready for what's coming. And you and I need to understand that, look, the day is approaching and God expects me to be so much the more. Now look, I can't do anything about what's going on in the world. But I do have some control over what's going on in my heart. So much the more Let me say to you, I believe there are several things here, and I'm just going to touch on them, I believe. But I want you to notice number one, we need to draw near so much the more. We just need to draw near. Can I just put in plain English? We need to get close to God. We need to get close to God. Folks, this isn't time to be living a hundred miles away from the Lord. This isn't time for you and I to be living at a distance. Let me ask you something. If you needed a prayer answered right now, could you get it answered? Or would you have to say, preacher, I got a lot of junk to get took care of? I've got sin to confess. Maybe I've got aught to forgive. I've got some old grudge I've got to let go of. I know God's not going to answer my prayer or hear my prayer because there's some things that are in the way. Why live like that? You don't have that luxury. I don't have the luxury to live at a distance from the Lord. We need to draw near. Isn't that what he said here? Look at verse 19. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus. He's talking about prayer. Getting close to God through the blood of Jesus Christ. That's my confidence. Now understand what I'm about to say. You can't get close to God on your own. You say, well I'll just I you know I'll a man told me. He said, me and God have a deal. I said, that's funny. God don't deal. He makes demands, but he doesn't deal with nobody. You don't come to God on your terms, you come to God on his terms. We've so cheapened the gospel of Jesus Christ that we've got men that treat God like He's some genie in a bottle that we rub and get Him when we need Him. And I've got news for you, he's the God of heaven. And he said, if you're going to draw near to me, you've got to do it through the blood of Jesus. But aren't you glad he's made a way for a rotten old sinner like you and me to get close to God? We can be washed in the blood of Jesus, cleansed by his fountain filled with blood. And my friend, listen, there is a nearness I can I can be confident about this. Not arrogant, but confident. We're confident in what? The blood of Jesus. We have no other righteousness. We have no other plea. It's his blood that we claim. It's his blood that we draw near to him by. We have that confidence. Here's our confidence. We're confident that I can come boldly. Now that's not being brash or brazen with God, but we can come with great confidence. And nobody hears us. Why? Because of who we are, or what church we go to or what stand we take? Absolutely not. Simply because of the blood of Jesus Christ that was shed on Calvary's Dark Hill. He says, Come to me through the blood. And if you're washed in the blood, you can go straight to the throne and come to God alone. That's the beauty of being a Christian. There's no hierarchy in the faith. Listen, just because you have a position doesn't give you access. You know what gives you access? The precious blood The precious blood. Draw near. Verse 21, and having an high priest over the house of God. I'm talking about drawing near. We come through the blood and we we come with that confidence, but we've got to come through Christ. He's our high priest. These Jewish believers knew that if they got to God, they had to do it through a priesthood. They just couldn't come to him on their own. But here's what Paul said, you got a high priest. He's passed into the heavens. His name's Jesus, the Son of God. Listen, my friend, he's the one through whom we have access. He's the door, as he taught us in John chapter 10. You know, some of these old old preachers, there's no office of prophet in a sense that ended in the apostolic age when the Bible was completed. God closed that. But these men could see some things because they walk with God. And the founder of the Salvation Army, William Booth. He said, I fear a day will come when we'll have Christianity without Christ. Now think about that. How can you have Christianity without Christ? It's being done all over America. It's being carried out all over the world. A form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. There is a form of and you know something? You can even have a fundamental form. of religion and have no true power because it's not focused and centered on Jesus Christ. There's no preacher down Texas. And I guess everything's different in Texas. I don't know. Never been there. But that old preacher in Texas had a man come to his church, and he come, he'd come, he'd rededicate his life, rededicate his life, he did this thing, he did it about twenty times. And he'd go out, run around on his wife, mistreat her, carry on, come in, cry and weep and say, I'm getting right with God, I'm getting right with God. And that old preacher, he he was a bold old fella, and he sort of got tired of that. And he came forward and he was in the altar and he prayed with him. He said, Oh, I've been mistreating my wife, I've been running around on her, and I I need to get my heart right with God, need to rededicate my life. And after the service was over, he made him stand up. He said, Now you tell them what you told me. And he reluctantly did. He said, now let me tell you something. He said, this is the 21st time that you've done that in this church. And he said, I'll tell you what I'm going to do. He said, I'm going to pray that if you go back on God this time, he'll kill you and put you out of your misery and ours. That man, thirty years later, he said, You know what? I've been kind of been afraid to go back on that Because I didn't want God to answer the preacher's prayer. Somewhere or another, we need to get back to Christ. Notice what he says here, draw near, and then verse 22 he talks about the cleanness that's required. Draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith. Let having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. And don't get caught up in all of the imagery or the illustrations there. Just understand this. Nearness requires cleanness. And cleanness requires confession. If we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You don't need a confessional booth. You need a savior. You need a savior. Brother Todd Bell, they bought a Catholic convent and turned it into a Christian church. And they've they found a an old confessional booth in there. And being the nut that he is, he's been playing with that thing He just built a new area and and when he built it, those that know, they put a comment on there, what are you doing? Build another booth, a confessional booth? And it's what it looks like. He said, No, no, it's gonna be something else But all joking aside, my friend, there's not a man on earth that can forgive your sin. There's not a person on this earth that can forgive your sin. Only the Lord can. But if you'll go to him, he'll forgive you and cleanse you. But listen, he wants to wash that sin away much more than you desire for it to be clean, and you can't get close unless you get clean. Maybe this morning you need to get clean so much the more. You know something, we're living in a dirty world. They can't sell anything anymore without something suggestive. It's sick. And you listen to people talk. I'm going to tell you something. You better be careful about who you got hanging around you and who you let hang around your kids. I was listening to some young people talk, and I'll tell you something. They were saying things that years ago grown men didn't say Wicked men didn't say. And their their their mouths are just just cesspools of of filth and pollution and and perversion. And here they are just pouring it out. And I'm here to tell you if you're not careful, all that stuff will get in you, and you'll get so dirty you can't get to God. You'll have to get clean You better guard your ears, and you better guard your eyes, and you better guard your your your associations, your f friendships, you better guard yourself, church. It doesn't take long to get dirty around something that's filthy. You notice that? You get around something that's dirty. An old vehicle. It's not been cleaned up. You go to getting that thing, man, you'll be dirty. Went to getting a car. I had black stuff all over my hands. I said, where'd that come from? I was looking at it and I I looked around. I was trying to f and sure enough I found it. They were getting it ready for the wintertime and greasing. They were one of those people that grease everything. When they grease it up, well it greased me and my suit and my shirt and everything on me. You get around dirty things and you'll get dirty. I'm trying to say, church, if you want to get close and you need to be so much the more, these are not days to live afar off. These are days to draw near to God so much the more as you see the day approaching. Are you staying right with God consistently? Are you walking with God carefully? Are you living for the Lord with a fervency? Or are you just kind of in and out and off and on? Friend, these aren't days for that. So much the more. Quickly, number two, we need to hold fast. So much the more. Look what he says in verse 23. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering. For he is faithful that promised. That word hold fast, the profession, that word hold fast means to be firm. Or to seize, or to secure. I would illustrate like this just planting your feet firm You remember the old song, I shall not be, I shall not be moved. Like a tree planted by the waters, I shall not be moved. Are you holding fast? It amazes me at how many have changed their doctrine just because of the current influence Just because it's popular doesn't mean it's true. Are you holding fast? You know what Jesus said? Will I find faith? Will he find faith? I don't think he's talking about Belief in the sense I I believe he's referring to the faith. Will I find will I find anybody believe in the Bible? Will there be anybody holding fast? I know it isn't popular. I know it's not going to get the applause of your community, but it pleases the God of heaven. Hold fast. Do you know how many times you're exhorted to do that? Look it up. Study it. The Bible says hold fast, stand fast, be steadfast. Unmovable. Always abound the work of the Lord. Don't be slipping on the truth. Our claim that profession is really a confession. And if you claim that the Lord is yours, you need to hold true to what He's told you is true in His precious word. In 2 Peter chapter 2, Peter said there'll be uh false teachers, false prophets, false Believers, there'll be individuals that come along and here's what they do. Even denying the Lord that bought him. Listen to me. You start playing with your Bible and you start drifting from the Lord, you better be careful because you can cross some lines And next thing you know, you deny the Lord that bought you. Deny the Lord that bought you. Don't have time to expound that, but you think about the warning there. The concern is that we hold fast. Look what it says. The profession of our faith without wavering. James said, he that wavereth is like the wind, the sea that's driven by the wind, tossed to and fro. That's what it means to waver. Just blow it about. There's an old Navajo preacher used to preach for me, and he preached on getting blown away. Blown away, I can still hear him. He said out on the he lived in in New Mexico and he said out on the reserve the wind would blow. We talked about it blowing up where we were and he said now on the reserve the wind would really blow And it would blow for days. He said the only thing to stop it was a barbed wire fence. And man, it would blow. And he said, if you didn't have it tied down, it would blow away. And he said we lived on a reserve, so if it blew away, it was fair gain. Everybody got what you what yours blew away. You didn't go say that's mine. Too bad the wind carried it to me. I 'm talking about getting blown away. You know what's happening today? It's a lot of people getting blown away. Paul warned the Ephesians not to be children tossed to and fro. with the slight of men, their cunning craftiness, with every wind of doctrine. You know the problem we got today? We've got YouTube theologians. And about the only thing they know about the Bible is what they hear somebody else say. Friend, if you ain't deeper than that, you better get your Bible open, get on your knees before Almighty God and say, Lord, teach me something so I don't get blown away. You're going to get blown away, friend, by the doctrines. Listen, the devil is a seducer, and he's going to use religion to do it in the last days. I used to think churches would close and cre and and this thing of church would die out. It's not dying out. Man, they're building bigger and larger and and and these these places are being packed out, but I'll tell you what's not being taught, the Word of God. And there's a doctrine that's divisive and destructive that's being and you know what's doing? It's blowing people away. And don't sit here and think it won't happen to you. I tremble when I think of this. I've trembled all week thinking about this. Who might get blown out of this congregation next year? Who might get some weird doctrine in their head and the devil just blow them out? I'm telling you, my friend, we better get so much the more about this thing of standing fast. We need some old-fashioned Holy Ghost determination that says I won't be moved away from what the Bible says. I'm not going to be moved away from it. I'm not going to let the wind blow me away. Not going to let the devil start blowing my little house down and make it tumble. I'm going to stand fast. You know how you do it? In the power of God. Notice what he says, for he is faithful that promised. You know why you can stand fast? Because God stands fast You can stand fast because the Bible's true and his promises are true, every one of them. He'll not back up on them, rewrite them, change them, do anything else To suit us or anybody else, he stays true to his word. He's faithful. He's faithful. That promise. That's why you can stand fast. Oh friend, there's an erosion taking place. We were out four-wheeling one time and we come around this road. And and my wife noticed it before I did, and she screamed, stop! I had an old blazer, 85 blazer. And I stopped just in time. The front wheels just kind of give it that. And we got out and we s we walked around the side of the mountain and the river that ran along through there had eroded that thing and the whole side of that mountain had fell out. And the road was gone. And I'll tell you what, there's a river running, there's rivers running through the currents of society. And you know what it's doing? It's attacking your faith. The devil hasn't stopped doing what he did in the garden. Yea, hath God said. He's running around putting question marks everywhere God's put a period. He's running around, he's say, oh, did God really say that? Did God really mean that? Does God really is God really going to do that? Listen, whether I understand God how God's going to do it That's not the question. The answer is the fact that God's going to do it. Whether I understand it or not, God just do whatever God wants to do, because he's God and I'm not. Be careful about thinking you got a handle on something that you can't get a handle on. I'm saying we can't we can know the truth, but understand this, there's an erosive influence at work You know this, God will be faithful. Those scoffers Brother Dixon talked about, those scoffers will say, where's the promise that he's coming? He I know he said he's coming. Where is he? Where is he? He's not here. Where is he? Things aren't happening like he thought they would. Where is he? There'll be scoffers and shame and mock. I've got news for you. One of these days, he'll silence every one of them. And in hell for sure. In hell for sure. There there are do you know this? There are no Bible deniers in hell. Everybody in hell believes every word of the Bible now. Everybody. One more. So much the more Need to take it up to a new level. Not only do we see the so much more the more of drawing near, the so much the more of holding fast, but the so much the more of one another. Look at verse 24. And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another And so much the more as you see the day approaching. You know what we need to be so much the more about? Considering one another. That's why he said considering. Consider one another. You know what? You and I need to know. We need to know that we impact each other. We impact each other. How many of you know consideration goes a long way? Do you not like to be considered? Or someone be considerate with you. We're talking about spiritual things now, not just, you know, daily things or or things like that. We're talking about being spiritually considerate. of one another considering that my life touches yours and your life touches mine and what I do and say has an impact on you. And listen, you and I need to be considerate of that I don't have time this morning. I'd like to do this and may come back to it, but we're part of a body that is fitly joined together by God. And the Bible tells us because we're members one of another, when one sorrows, we all sorrow. When one rejoices, we all rejoice. In other words, we're so intricately connected that what we do affects each other. You can't get by with it. I mean you can't get around that. Well, bless God. I'm a loner Well, you may be, but a loner still makes an impact on the people that they're around. Or to be considerate. Can I ask you something? Are you considered of the fact that when you're unfaithful to church, it discourages other believers? You ever consider that? Do you ever consider the fact that nobody s recognizes me? Well, they may not recognize your presence, but I guarantee you they do your absence Is it is it are we considering one another? You know, one of the signs of the last days is that men will be lovers of themselves. Means they're selfish. They want what they want, don't care about nobody else. You're down in lower part of Georgia and there's a whole bunch of traffic going and coming and I was waiting to get out and and I've got Maryland mentality, okay? You see an open and you go for it like a shot ratit, man. You go out and you get it. Because if you don't, you're just gonna sit there And I don't know how many people, when I was having to come in out of four or five places, I don't know how many people stopped and said And I looked at him like, what are you gonna do? Hit me and get insurance money? I'm very suspect of most people And and I was shocked, I told Elizabeth, I called her, I said, Elizabeth, can you believe these people? They're so considerate. And it sort of shocked me, and I had to get used to that again, of people actually being considerate A and people holding the door open for you and you know you're you're like, What are you gonna do? Trip me and you know, have a lawsuit or something. You just you got all signs or I got all kinds of things in my mind. Maybe I messed up. Lord help me, pray for me. But that consideration is unusual. But it ought to be the norm in the house of God. We ought to consider each other. We ought to consider one another as we converse and as we talk. And look what it says. We ought to provoke one another. Man, we're good at this, but just not in the right way. That word provoke means to prod and stir up. You know what I love about somebody else's kids? You can get them wound up and send them home with them. My nephew has children and it was fun just ramping them up, getting them all excited, running around the house, playing, hollering, yelling, and said, we're going home. We'll see you, buddy. I love you. Hope they sleep good. We took them a whole bunch of sugar, took them some little Look, they ate those and they were on the chandeliers And I loved it. Because you know what? We went into a quiet little place and went to sleep. And he had them little monkeys to deal with. That's provoking. You pray for me. That's not right. But that's provoking in the wrong way. You know what he says? You ought to provoke each other to love and good works. Can I ask you something? When you talk to somebody, does it make them love the people of God more or less? You provoke them about that When you talk to somebody, does it make them want to love Jesus more? I mean, do you stir them up to love Him more? Do you stir one another to action? Are you stirring one another to good works? I mean just doing what pleases God and just stir each other up to do what's right. You'll you'll never provoke one another in this way too much. You know why? Because we all need stirring up. We all need stirring up. Talking about so much the more. And then he talks about exhorting here. Look at it. Exhorting one another. He's talking about the assembling of ourselves together. Do you know that? I never knew this actually until I was studying this word out. This word is a similar word to the Holy Ghost, the word exhort. It's a form of that word. It comes from that base. And you know what the Holy Spirit is? You know the word paraclete. This is a form of that word, and it means to come along somebody side somebody and help them. To come alongside them and help them, exhorting one another. What are we to exhort? Assemble. By the way, do you know that this sometimes messes us up? The manner of some is Do you know there were Jews not assembling with the Gentiles because they were still locked under the old veil of Judaism? And they said it must not be right to gather with them because they're dogs. And Peter had to be taught the lesson that what God's cleansed, you don't call common or unclean. The blood of Christ erases distinctions. Understand that. It doesn't magnify differences. It erases all that. And he says, you know what you need to do? Encourage one another. Get alongside somebody and help 'em. Exhort them. Exhort them. Not forsake the assembling of ourselves together. Do you know something? And again, I don't have time. To do this, but do you know in the New Testament saved people always gather with saved people from the day of Pentecost on Saved people wanted to be with saved people. What happened in Pentecost? Those believers that that that got saved there on the day of Pentecost, they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine, breaking of bread, prayers, they gathered together. They gathered together. You can't discuss the word church without assembly. There must be a gathering together. And he's saying so much the more. Here's what got me started on this whole thing. Everywhere I look, it's so much the less. So much the less. Do you realize there are some places in the Bible belt that you can't find a church on Sunday night or Wednesday night that still goes to church? Hundreds of them. Like I said, there's a state in the north. They're the only church that had a Sunday night service. The church I was preaching in was the only church in that region that had a Sunday night and a Wednesday night service. And you wouldn't believe the people, the hungry little sheep that come in and said, our church don't meet like this anymore, so we want to come. You know why saved people want to be with saved people? And there's a drive in the people of God to assemble. And I'm saying it's in time to trim services and cut things out of the calendar. If you're going to start cutting things out of your calendar, cut the frivolous things, the foolish things, those things that gr that are taking you away from God, cut all of that out of your calendar and put God back where God needs to be and say, Lord, I want to be a so much the more. God made me so much the more. Now I'll hear you if you've got justification for being so much the less. Because you've been gracious and heard me on my justification for being so much the more But I've got news for you. In these last days, it is not time to back up or let up. It's time to step it up and say, God, help me to be so much the more. Help me to be so much the more a Christian. Folks listen. People are watching you. And this thing isn't really about you, but you and I need to understand this. You and I are living in a day where you're either justifying unbelief or you're condemning it by the way you live. When I struggled in rebellion away from God, one of the things that that I just couldn't justify Are some people I know who really are Christians? I knew a lot who weren't or who didn't act like it. And they made me doubt and they made me wonder is this thing real or not? And they made me scratch my head and say, if that's what Christianity is, I don't want to be like that. But there were a handful of them I couldn't explain. There was something about them that just bore the mark of heaven on them. They were real. They were Christians. They were so much the more. And their so much the more troubled me in my so much trouble. It bothered me in my spirit. It troubled my heart. And I said, you know what? Not everybody's a hypocrite. Not everybody's a fake. There are some who are real. And I don't know about you, but I want to be numbered among them. I want to be so much the more. Can I ask you a question? What area in your life have you let slip? You may have gotten lazy about reading your Bible. And and you say, Preacher, I'm so busy. I I just don't have time for my Bible. Now don't tell me that when you spend seven hours a day on Facebook You got time. How many of you know you got time for everything you deem important? Don't cut back on your prayer life. If you're just praying two or three minutes a day, you need to back up and say, God help me, I need to be so much some more. Christian, how faithful are you to God's house? And I'd say this whether I was your pastor or not, because it's the truth of God's word. You don't need less church, you need more. We don't need to be backing up on this thing. I'm going to tell you something, friend, there's going to come a day we may not have the privileges we got right now. And we'll be sitting somewhere saying, Oh God, I wished I'd have I wish I took advantage of what I had. Huh? So much the more. I wonder how many here this morning say I'm a Christian preacher, but I'm going to tell you something. I've kind of believed the lie of so much the less, and that would be the description of my life. I'm going to tell you right now, by God's good grace and mercy, you can change that. Or rather, he can change that. If you'll come to him and say, Lord, I don't want to be so much the less. I don't want to be less than what I ought to be. I need to be more. God help me. God help me. You may be sitting here and you're not saved. You've never believed on the Lord Jesus to the saving of your soul. I'm not just saying you said, well, I believe Jesus died and I believe he rose again. I I believe all that right here. But never did anything in your life. I'm talking about believing to the saving of your soul, where you're committing the soul, your soul, your eternity, you're staking everything on what Jesus said and what Jesus does. You're saying he alone can save me. If you've never done that, do you know you can get saved this morning? That's the joy of this gospel You can be saved here in this weird place. You may be sitting here thinking, man, these people are crazy. Look, I'm their pastor. I know they are. Some of them are real crazy. But I love them. But let me tell you something. There's a God in heaven who will meet you right where you're at. And He'll save you in a moment of time. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Oh God, have mercy. No plea for mercy will be ignored. He'll not stop his ears towards you. He'll reach down and save you in this very spot and make a new creature out of you. Make a Christian out of you. Bless his wonderful name. And if you're not saved, you need to be. And you can be. You can be. In a few moments, Brother Dow, why don't you just come on? Brother Dow's going to come with our hymn, our piano 's coming. Pianist is coming. And listen, the Lord wants to do something in your heart. If you're not saved, he wants to save you. If you've got questions, need somebody to pray with you, would you just kneel somewhere? Or if you can't kneel, sit on a front row and raise your hand. And if you're a man, one of our men will watch. They'll come and help you and pray with you. If you're a lady, one of our dear ladies will come and they'll pray with you. But it may be that as a Christian, you're sitting here and God's saying, Hey, you're so much the less, but you need to be so much the more. Listen to him. Listen to him. Let him have his way. You'll never regret saying, Yes, Lord. Lord, you're right. You're right. I need you to help me. I want to be so much the more. Would you bow your heads with me for a moment? How many Christians would just be honest? I want anybody looking around. I want you to just be mindful of what God's wanting to do in your heart