I want you to take your Bible, please, and turn with me to the Gospel of Luke. Luke chapter number eight. Luke chapter number eight. I'm glad I stand redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. We're grateful for the work of the Lord Jesus on the cross of Calvary on our behalf. And we understand we're not here because of who we are. We're here because of what He did. And we give him all the glory. We're thankful for the Lord Jesus. I want you to stand with me. I'm going to read the text, Luke chapter 8. And bear with me and let me read from verses 5 to verse 15. I'm not going to cover all of this. I want to really look at the interpretation here of the parable. But Luke chapter number 8, beginning in verse number 5. The Bible says that a sower went out to sow his seed, and as he sowed, some fell by the wayside, and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it. And some fell upon a rock, and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away because it lacked moisture. And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it. Another fell on good ground and sprang up and bare fruit an hundredfold. And when he had said these things, he cried, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. And his disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be? And he said, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God. But to others in parables, that seeing they might not see, and hearing they might not understand. Now the parable is this: the seed is the word of God. Those by the wayside are they that hear. Then cometh the devil and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. They on the rock are they which when they hear receive the word with joy. And these have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away. And that which fell among thorns are they which, when they have hurt, go forth, and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection. But that on the good ground are they which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it and bring forth fruit with patience. I want to preach this morning a very simple message on sowing seed. Sowing seed. May the Lord help us. Would you pray with me? Our Father, we bow our heads again before you. We're so grateful for the Word of God. Lord, just the reading of it encourages us greatly. We thank you for the great truth of this book, that no matter what has come against it, the Bible still stands. I pray, Father, this morning, that you would speak to our hearts and would you have your will and way in this meeting? I'm glad the Spirit of God can take one passage and work in multiple ways. We're trusting you, Lord, to undertake and help. Lord, for these few moments, would you please hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up the Lord Jesus and may nothing but Christ be exalted. And we'll praise you and thank you for what you do, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. Our Lord often Taught in parables. And you say, preacher, what is a parable? Well, a parable is just simply an earthly story with heavenly teaching. There's a truth that the Lord uses to bring out through these parables. Everybody present at this time would have known what it was to sow seed. Sowing seed was was absolutely necessary to live. If you didn't sow seeds, you didn't have food to eat. If you didn't sow seeds, you didn't have a future. I mean, their life depended on the sowing of the seed. And everybody there had to sow some sort of seed or another. And they also understood that when you sow seed, not all the seed comes up. Now the problem is not with the seed, but the problem is with the soil. I'm going somewhere. Just hold with me a minute. Because the reality is, is that we often say, well, there must be something wrong with the seed. It just didn't come up. Now, you can go out here and in fact it happens from time to time. We'll have grass come up in our parking lot. And yet, you go out there and spread a fifty-pound bag of grass seed, it may sprout, but it's not going to last. The problem's not with the seed. You can put down good seed, but it won't come up. And it may come up, but it won't last. Why? Because the soil's not good. There's not proper soil. Now, the disciples, when they heard this story, they said, What does this mean? Or this parable, what does this mean? What are you trying to teach us, Lord? And the Lord gives the explanation. And let me just quickly say this, that the sower is the Christian. You and I are to be sowers. You say, what does that mean? That means we're broadcasting the seed of the truth. You can do that with the gospel tract, you can do that with your personal testimony. You can do that with a plain witness as you tell what Jesus did on the cross, but we're all supposed to be sowers. That culture depended on the sowing of the seed. Let me remind you that if you didn't sow seed, nobody would sow your seed. You had to sow your own seed. And they had to get out and they had to do the work. So all all of us who are saved are responsible to be sowers. We're sowing the seed of God's word. We're to be getting the gospel out. We've been trying to do that this summer. We've been sowing seed at the fair with Bibles. We've been sowing seed at VBS. We've been sowing seed in various outreaches and that's what we're doing. We're doing what we're supposed to, sowing seed. But then there's the seed. And let me be very clear that the seed is God's word. That seed is God's word. It's the truth of God's word. I read purposefully this morning Hebrews chapter 4 because I wanted the reminder. I want the reminder, and I believe we all need the reminder. That the Bible is a living book. Dr. Etchens said in Sunday school, it's inexhaustible. You'll never pump all the water out of this well. You'll read it a thousand times and every time you read it something fresh will be there. Now there's some books I've read that I read again and again. I've got a selection of them on my desk. that I read annually. I want to read this book one this year and perhaps every six months or so on. But I find over time in all of these years that uh some of those get dry and I just put 'em aside and say I'm going somewhere else because that well don't keep pumping water But I'm gonna tell you something, here's a well that that just keeps pumping water. I read it this morning, and you what it spoke to me And and you'll read it tomorrow morning and God willing He'll speak to you again because it's an inexhaustible book. This is the seed. Can I say, brother or sister, this world don't need your opinion? It needs a seat. It it this world don't need your thoughts and ideas. We got enough of that Everybody's got a thought about something, and most of them are wrong, but God's thoughts are recorded in the Bible, and they're all right. You need the seed, use the seed, spread the seed, sow the seed. And then there's the soil. He talks about the ground. He calls it ground. I'm going to call it soil. Some of the ground was hard ground. Some of the ground that we find here was ground that uh lacked depth, if you will. Some of the ground was was thorny ground. It had bad seeds sowed with it, and other stuff came up. And some was good ground. And though that ground or that soil represents the hearts of men. And just as varied as these four soils are, so are the hearts of men. Do you realize that there are those hearts present here this morning? There's hard hearts here this morning. The seed of the word of God is going to fall and the devil's going to snatch it away, and it's not going to do a bit of good. It's always amazed me to watch people sit in church and some people flourish and other people flounder on the same truth. The problem is not the truth. The problem's with the heart. And so there's hard hearts, and there there are hearts like the Bible says here, where there's going to be uh that That they'll come up. There's no depth. It's not wayside, as he calls it there, but it's it's got that rock in, and it'll prove promising, and then it'll fizzle out. Why? Because there's no depth to it. There's hearts with no depth. Can I say it like this? There's people that are shallow. They just live on the surface. They don't get beyond the surface. And by the way, if you know anything about sowing seeds, you've got to get beyond the surface. That's why you run a rototiller through, or you run a plow through, or you you gotta break up that, what did the prophet say? Break up the fallow ground. There's got to be the breaking open of that soil for that seed to get down in there where it can grow. You you take grass seed and you just throw it out on top of the ground. It's not going to flourish. You've got to prepare that soil and break up that ground. But there's people, no doubt, perhaps sitting or listening to the broadcast, and that soil is shallow. It's not been broken up yet. And that seed's going to fall, and it may show a little sign of life, but it's going to fizzle in time because there's no debt And then there are those that that there's seed being sown and it's taking root, but there's a lot of other things in there that's going to come up and just choke it out. Kill the life out of it. Boy, we were so excited this year to have sunlight in our yard that I built four uh little um uh above-ground planters, raised beds is what they're called. And uh plant them, and and I do this every year. I put more seed than I should have in the place. And so in one thing we got green beans, we got corn, and we have pumpkins. All the same thing. And you know what, those pumpkins, when they came up, they choked everything else out around them. Because they just took over and went everywhere. That's what they do. And and everything else is trying to struggle to keep up, and it can't keep up because those other things are choking them out. Now look, there's people sitting here, perhaps listening, and there's things choking the life out of you spiritually There's worldliness, there's carnality, there's all sorts of distractions in your life, pursuits that are contrary to what God would have you to pursue. And you know what's happening? It's choking the spiritual life out. Oh, you're taking the word in. It's taking some measure of root. But it's not bearing fruit because you're getting all it's it's all competing. There's competition. There's competition. I don't know about you. I don't need any competition for this in my life. I don't need anything trying to choke this out. This is the most important thing in my life and in yours as well, in reality. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. You don't need competition for the word of God. I'm gonna I just can I help you with something. You you ought to take a break You ought to take a break from the news on the Lord's Day. Now I know some of you are newsholics, and you can't function without putting your nose on a news uh started saying newspaper. Nobody reads newspaper anymore But on a screen that gives you the latest updates of what's going on in the world. Let one day out of the week be a day that you dedicated not to what's happening in the world, but what's happening in eternity. Let the word of God do let it take root in your heart. There's all kinds of distractions that that will come along. Again, our own pleasures, our flesh. There's there's those Things and they're constantly trying to crowd out the influence of the Word of God. And I'm going to tell you something. You need to be careful about your own thinking about the Word. Because I'll tell you, a lot of times we come to the Bible and our minds made up. We're just looking for a verse to prove it. Now I tell you, I know what I believe. That's what we do. Well, what do you believe? Let me find chapter and verse to back it up. By the way, how many of you know you can make the Bible say about anything you want it to? You heard about that boy that said he was going to find him a verse and he flipped, flipped, flipped through, and he found that verse that said Judas went out and hung himself? And he thought, boy, I don't need that verse. So he closed his Bible and he and he did this number here and he put his finger on it and he found that verse that said, That that thou doest, do quickly. Now I'll tell you something, he was rethinking his ways. And what I'm saying is, you know, we ought to come to the Bible with a freshness that says, God speak to me and show me the truth. Not with a prejudiced mind or a biased mind. Oh my friend, listen, men all sorts of men have ideas and thoughts and ideas that they want to uh put in your mind or put in your heart But I'm going to tell you, all of that will fade away. None of that will sustain you. The only thing that has life is the Word of God. The Word of Truth. And so that's that soil. There's competition, the choking. But then thank God for the good ground. Because on the good ground there's fruit. On the good ground, there's life. There's just what you sow seed for. There's something produced. Now let me say just a couple of things about sowing seed, and I want to help you with these. I'm going to try to shepherd you. I know I'm not everybody's shepherd because you can be somebody's preacher and not be their shepherd, but I'm going to try to shepherd you. I'm going to try to pastor if you'll let me. And encourage your heart this morning. Number one, if you're going to sow seeds, you've got to deal with the devil. That's the plain teaching right here. If you're going to sow seed, you're going to have to deal with the devil. Look with me in verse 12 what it says. Those by the wayside are they that hear. What's those next four words? Then cometh the devil. You say that with me? Then cometh the devil Hey, when you throw down seed, march just mark her down in the Bible, here comes the devil. He's gonna come every time. You know why? Because he don't want that seed to take root. He knows there's something about the seed. You know that? He knows there's something about the seed. There's power in the seed. And he knows if I don't get that seed up, it's going to do something I don't want it to do. And so there's power in the seed. I like how Mark tells it. Mark chapter 4. Look at this one. Mark chapter 4 and verse 15. Look what he says. And these are they by the wayside where the word is sown. But when they have heard, Satan cometh immediately. And taketh away the word that was sown in their hearts. You see that? He comes immediately. Here he comes. I don't want that seed there. I gotta get rid of it. I got to get that seed out of their heart. Have you ever noticed the attack on your mind while you're trying to listen to the preaching of God's Word? Have you ever noticed that when you sit down to hear the Word of God, that a thousand and one thoughts will flood your mind that don't flood your mind until the Word of God is preached? Have you ever noticed how drowsy you often get when you're sitting here in the Word of God? And I don't believe it always has to do with the preaching. Oftentimes it has to do with the devil who don't want seed to get in your heart. Have you ever noticed how many distractions pop up when you start trying to sow some seed and preach the word? I had a visitation partner one time and he was a master at keeping distractions away. And when you sat down to talk to somebody and you started talking about the Lord, you know what? And you've done this, I hope. You've sat down and tried to talk to somebody, here comes a distraction. It might be a little child, it may be a dog, it might be something else, but just going, we were in a house one time sharing the gospel, and uh I wished I could say it was a cat, but it wasn't a cat, it was an old dog. And when I tried to share the gospel, that dog came over there and he kept trying to pull the the scriptures out of my hand. And I thought, well maybe they'll make him calm down here or or make him go. No, they just let him go on. He kept trying to pulled the Bible and finally uh the the fellow that I was with, this man I'm talking about, he got that dog, he started playing with it, and he got him he moved to another chair and he got him over there. And he's over there. Well listen, when we bowed our heads to pray, that dog went berserk. And uh he I I don't know what his problem was, but uh you know he might have been like them pigs there when the madman of Godera uh but he he was a great distraction Look, the devil's a master distraction. And and you and I got to be careful and again I I want to remind you that that we live in a world of distractions. That's why we qu we very politely put in our hymn book that silence your cell phone before service starts because that's a distraction. Have you noticed how those things always go off right when maybe you need to hear something? And we need to understand that there are distractions. We've got to be careful. And listen, you know what that is? That's the devil. The devil does not want the seed sown. But I want you to see that when you're sowing seeds, you've got to deal with the devil. He's going to be there. He's going to be right there to snatch the seed away. He doesn't want that seed to get in hearts, and he's going to do everything and say, what do I need to do? Number one, I just need to be aware. I need to be aware. My dad used to raise gardens up on the mountain and and we would go up there and he'd always say he had a fear of snakes, terrible fear, and he would always say, Now when we go up there, keep your eyes open. You get in those in the potatoes and corn where we're hoeing, he said, though there there's snakes everywhere. You've got to be watching for those snakes. And uh he said, just be aware, you know, if you're just walking around chewing, chewing gum, doing whatever, you're gonna get snake bit. He said, be aware, and I can still see him taking that hoe. And he'd move that plant and he'd look in there and then he'd work. And he'd move that plant and he'd look in there and he'd work. You know what? He was aware. Be aware. Understand this, that the enemy does not want the seed to be sown, and you need to be aware to his activity. He's not only we not only do we need to be aware, but we need to understand that he acts. He acts. Don't get so caught up in the secondary. Don't get caught up and say, well, I'll tell you what, that so-and-so, or this, that, or the other, and we start pointing fingers. No, no, remember this, the enemy is the seed stealer. The enemy's the seed stealer. And then I'll tell you what, when we're dealing with the devil We need to be not only aware, we need to understand that he acts. But we just need to stay active. Keep sowing seed. You say, what did he do when the seed fell on the ground where where the devil came and took it away? He just went and sowed more. He just went and sowed more. The sword just kept on sowing seed. Listen, the the enemy, he was very aware that the enemy came and took it out of their hearts, so what do you do? You put more back in. You put more back in. I remember the farmer I used to work for, he had he had plant fields, a lot of times the crows would come, and in that day those crows had a bounty on their head. Boss would say, I'll give you a dollar for every crow you bring back from the field. So every tractor we were on, we had shotgun, something we had, we were ready for them, buddy. Because you know what? They destroy the crops. They dig up the seed. And you let corn start popping up, they'll pull every bit of it up. And there were times you go back and you have to plant again, you'd have to plant again, you have to plant again, you have to plant again. Why? Because they keep pulling the seed up Not one time did I see him come in and say, I'm done, I'm not planting no more seed because uh the the crows had pulled it all up. I'm gonna tell you something, you keep sowing seed. That's a lesson here in this parable. You've got to learn as we uh sow seed that you've got to deal with the devil. No matter his dealings with the devil, the sower kept on sowing seed. But number two, I want you to see something. He goes on sowing. He continues to sow. And then all of a sudden he comes to ground and it says in verse 13 They on the rock, he's talking about the seed that fell on the rock, are they which when they hear receive the word with joy And these have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away. Now read verse fourteen. And that which fell among thorns are they, which when they have heard go forth, and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection. Can I say this? If you're going to sow seed, you've got to learn to deal with discouragement. You've got to deal with discouragement. Isn't it discouraging? I mean, he says, look, here's somebody, and they receive the word, and immediately, immediately they're filled with joy. Oh, they look so promising. They're so excited and enthused about the things of God. But notice this: which for a while believe And in tent time of temptation fall away. Now I'm not here to debate this parable. But from what I can gather from Jesus' interpretation, there's really only one. Only one that we would say is saved. They believe for a while. They might give mental assent. They might get somewhat enthused. They might get excited. And look, we've all seen them. How many of you enjoy uh firecrackers or fireworks at Fourth of July or whenever? First of the year? I don't it's never really a bad time to shoot 'em, but anyway. And you and you read the package, man. They make a big deal out of the package, and you read the package, you think, this thing's going to be awesome. And you light it and it starts to smoke and it's not and then all of a sudden it's shh It fizzles. Isn't that disappointing? You 're like, where's the explosion? We didn't blow one thing up. I mean it just shh There's no enjoyment in that. You think, man, I'm so disappointed. And there are a lot of people, they get, they they profess salvation. And they get all excited and they're full of joy and they're all enthused. And on the outside, they got it, they're all fired up. You think, wow, this person really got it, and it doesn't take long, and boom, they're not saved. They fizzle out. They fizzle out. And they fizzle out, and you find out, and you say, well, you know, that's discouraging. Let's just be real. I mean you can be a super saint if you want to, but it's discouraging when you see them fizzle. I mean it's discouraging when you see somebody on fire and suddenly all of a sudden the fire's gone. They they they just lost that zeal for God and all that evaporates. That's discouraging. You say, what did he do? He just kept on sowing seed. He just kept on sowing seed. Listen, some fell on that ground and it looked promising, but it failed in the end. And then the thorns. He goes on. He goes on. He keeps sowing. What happens? Well, the cares of life, the riches, pleasures, they and it chokes it out, and there's no fruit to perfection. Chokes it out. That's discouraging. Boy, when you when you work hard, those of you that have raised a garden, you've worked hard, and you put in all that work, you see something growing, you think, boy, I can't wait. Can't wait till that comes up. I can't wait to get the fruit of that. And and then all of a sudden something happens and it just chokes out. That corn I told you about, there's a couple of man, it was so beautiful. Ben saw it, it was beautiful, it came up well, it was growing, and then we had a rainstorm and it knocked every bit of it flat. I thought All that, and it didn't do a thing. Didn't do a thing. And listen, it's discouraging. And God's people, listen, a lot of times you you you invest, you sow seeds, you sow seeds, you sow seed, you see some you see some growth, you see what you think to be uh uh uh going towards maturity, you think, man, they're they're getting it, they're growing, they're gonna make something, there there's going to be spiritual fruit that that'll be born in their lives, and then all of a sudden the the cares of life, something comes along, just chokes it right out of 'em, and they fall away too. That's discouraging. You say, preacher, what do I do when I deal with discouragement? Keep sowing seed. Just keep sowing seed. That's what he did. He kept on. I want you to notice something here, as he kept sowing. No matter the condition, no matter the circumstance, no matter the outcome, he just sowed seed. I'll tell you something. I think the devil did a masterful thing when he convinced Christians that it's all about the end result. And I've got news for you, it's not. It's not. Oh, is there an end result? There is. But it's not all about the end result. When he got us mesmerized with numbers and noses and said, oh boy, uh you know, get just get all wrapped up in that. I'm gonna tell you something, that's a stroke of the devil, because if it ain't there, you think, well, I failed. No, no, no. What does God require among stewards? Not fruitfulness, but faithfulness. The sower just kept sowing seed. He just kept putting down the seed. Because in due time that seed's going to find good ground and it's going to bring forth fruit. Now, Christian, listen, it's not about how many professions you get, and uh you may not mark up mark up there or reach up there with the big boys that are reporting the thousands, but what matters is are you sowing the seed Just keep sowing the seed. That's the purpose of this parable. He sowed it on the good ground, sowed it on the bad ground. Here's the point. He sowed it everywhere he went. Now when I read that I thought why is he over here sowing on the wayside? He knows better than that. Why is he over here throwing ro throwing seed on the hard ground, on the stony ground? Why is he over here throwing seed where he knows it's not going to come up? Here's the truth. There's a great deal of mystery about where the seed's gonna take root. I don't know who. You know something, have you ever been wrong? Okay. Here's opportunity for confession, and confession is good for the soul. Alright? Some of you dear wives, if your husband raises his hands in a moment, you're going to pass out. So All the nurses be ready. But how many of you have been wrong? I mean just plain wrong. You were convinced you were right, but you were wrong. Alright, we got a few here need oxygen Around the reality is sometimes we're wrong. Hey, many a failure has been declared where the fruit had just not been found. Many times we say that did absolutely no good. That did absolutely no good. There's absolutely nothing good from that. There's no fruit going to come of that. And I've got news for you. You can't say that, and I can't say that. Here's what Paul said. I judge nothing before it's time. His ministry, if he looked at it on the whole, there was a lot of it a failure that God turned around and made a success. Why? Because he's the Lord of the harvest. The harvest is on him, not you. It's all on his hands. It's not my hands. There's many a heart I thought was stone hard, but little did I know God the Holy Ghost is doing something. But it wasn't near as hard as it looked, you know. I mean sp you know a lot of times we make a lot out of appearance. There's a whole lot of things that appear. You can't you know the s the saying is you can't judge a book by its cover. There's a whole lot of truth that we Christians need to learn. There's a lot of times you're not, you think I'm not doing a lick of good, and you're doing a whole lot more good than you realize. But my concern and your concern is not about what good we're doing. Our concern is just keep sowing seed. Just keep sowing seed. Just keep putting down the seed. Just keep planting the seed. Hey, I know this much, you can't have a harvest if you don't plant seed. You're gonna have to just keep putting down seed Now we come finally, and I want you to see it here, we come to the third thing about sowing seed that I want to encourage you with. Number one, you've got to deal with the devil. Number two, you've got to deal with discouragement. But number three, I want you to see the delight of a desire accomplished. The delight of a desire accomplished. He says, verse 15, as if finally, but that on the good ground are they which an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it. And bring forth fruit with patience. The Bible teaches us that the desire accomplished in Proverbs 13, 19 The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul. When the desire is accomplished When what you set out to do is finally done, so to speak, and and you've you've accomplished what you went forward to do, and you see the work or the fruit of that, oh how sweet it is to the soul. Isn't it sweet when you see a Christian and and you see somebody get converted and you see them grow in Christ and you see them down the road just sticking with it? Just living for the Lord? That desire of cause that's sweet to the soul. That's sweet of the soul. I like how the Bible says it in Psalm 126. They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. They that so there's no uncertainty about that. There's no uncertainty. They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. And then he says this, he that goeth forth and weepeth bearing precious seed shall doubtless. That's a big word. That got a hold of me this week, doubtless. No doubt about it. No doubt about it. Shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. You say, what's a sheep? That's the harvest. Gat that that that golden grain that's all gathered up. If you go out sowing, you're gonna come back reaping. There's going to be a time where what you planted is going to come up, and my friend, you're going to come back rejoicing bearing your sheaves on your shoulders. That's the delight of the desire accomplished. You know, I see something here in this. Notice this. He talks about the good ground, and he says this, which in an honest and good heart. If you know anything about the heart of man, there's nothing honest or good. Because Jeremiah said it's deceitful, desperately wicked. Isn't that what he said? So, how do we get an honest good heart? I'll tell you how. That's the work of the Spirit. That's the work of the Spirit. You know who makes you honest before God, the Holy Ghost in you. The Spirit of God working on you. Listen, that's why we believe, and the Bible teaches, and it's it's repeated, not only in parable, but in principle and in precept again and again and again, that a person will not be saved except the Spirit of God does something in their heart. You can't be saved apart from him. He's got to bring you to that place of an honest and good heart. He's the one doing the work, making you honest. Why did you say, oh God, I'm a sinner? Because the Holy Ghost showed you you were a sinner. It's not the work of man to see that. Man's blind, dead, lost, separated from God, full of his pride, full of his self, full of his own uh contentment saying, I'm good, I don't need God. But you show me a man that says, Oh God, I'm in trouble. My sins are before me. I need forgiveness. I show you somebody the Holy Ghost has paid a visit and said, you're the man. It takes the work of the Spirit of God in that honest and good heart. But notice something else here. Having heard the word, keep it. That's the work of the scriptures. The scriptures transform a person's life. This Bible will not leave you like it finds you. The Spirit of God working in you And the Scripture's working on you, there's going to be some transformation take place. That keep it is the work of the Scripture. That keep it. It's like the Isaiah said, You'll hear a voice saying, This is the way, walk ye in it. That's what this is. This is God's voice. This is the way, walk ye in it. Can I ask you something? Why do you live like you live? Why do you act like you act? If you're saved, it ought to be because God tells you to in his word. That's the power of the work of the scriptures. Now that's I'm telling you, the Bible changed you. It will transform your life. The devil don't want this book. You tell me why there's such a hatred for the scriptures in our society. If it's not that the devil fears what it could do. You know why we're in a mess? We're in a mess because the Bible's not being read, taught, and followed in homes across this land. Let's take it a step further. You know why we're in a mess in this country? Because most churches don't read, follow, obey the word. I remember driving to church one morning we we went by this religious outfit and on the church sign you know what their morning message was? How to make a budget. That's a message for this morning. How to make a budget. I'll tell you what I'd do. I'd hit snooze on my alarm clock. I'd have me an egg about eleven thirty, in bed, wouldn't get up, big glass orange juice, and then I'd go back to sleep if that's all I got. You need the word. And I need the word. God helped me to be a preacher that preaches the word. You don't need my opinion. I got 'em. I'm just like you. And I've got my own thoughts and ideas, but I know that that's not going to help your weary soul. What your weary soul needs is thus saith the Lord. And the Word of God will minister to you like nothing else can. They that keep the the listen, the Word of God it it falls on that good ground, that honest good heart, the Spirit of God's working And they hear the word and they keep it. That's the working of the scriptures. And their lives are changed because of it. And then notice this. And bring forth fruit with patience. Here's a sure work. We see the Spirit's work, the Scripture's work. Now we see a sure work. You notice the Spirit of God put in there that little word with patience. I confess I got a problem. When I plant a garden, I want it up, bearing fruit by the end of the week. How many times I go into the garden and I start digging, my wife says, Leave that alone, it'll come up. Yeah, but it's been three days. Why is it not up? It should be up. And then if I if I take the time to read that small print, we'll germinate in four to five days or however many you know on the back of the packet. And and I and we get to day five or we get to day six, I'm thinking, well, let's dig it up and plan against you. Leave it alone. Just be patient. It will come up. And you know what I've learned? I've learned what every married man has learned. She's right. And all you men said, Oh goodness. Every one of you ought to get an old burnt cheeseburger for dinner. That's terrible. Pitiful bunch. God help you No, listen, with patience. Some people don't grow quick. You know what? A lot of times we we make judgments on eternal things that it takes eternity to reveal. We make an assessment and say, nah, that person, they're not, they'll not amount to anything. You know what's amazed me in 35 plus years? Those that in the back of my mind, I'm thinking, boy, they won't make much as a Christian, turned out to make real good Christians. Sure work. The scriptures bore fruit in their lives. But can I just say this? That might have been encouraging, that might have been delightful. But you say, what did the sower do? He just kept sowing seed. He didn't stop and start counting trophies. He just kept sowing seed. Now listen, a lot of Christians get to the point and they've reaped a great big harvest and they say, Well, I've done enough. I've got news for you. Sow seed till the day you die. There's no time to sit and just wait and and say, Well, I I I used to, I was, I have been. We got too many used to bees. We need people that are on the firing line sowing seed. Because there's not going to be a harvest if we don't sow seed. Keep sowing the seed. Yes, we'll deal with the devil. Yes, we'll get discouraged. Yes, we'll be delighted. But through it all the seeds got to be sown. Can I just give you my message in four statements? You say, preacher, why didn't you do that to start with? Well, you'd have gone home and we couldn't have delivered our burden. But here's my form here's my four step here's my message in a nutshell. Number one, we're sowing seed, all right? Some will. Some will. Some will hear, some will be saved. That's a blessing, isn't it? Number two, some won't Some just won't. They won't hear, they won't receive, but some won't. Please hear this. Number three. So what? So what? The will and the won't has nothing to do with you. The sow and the seed is what has to do with you Some will, some won't, so what? Number four, just stay at it. Now if you take that home, you heard what's on my heart. Just stay at it. Just keep sowing seed. Wherever you go, whatever you face, however it's received or rejected, No matter what, just keep sowing seed, just keep sowing seed. And I'll tell you what, when you cast your bread on waters, you don't know when it's going to return You don't know what the increase is going to be. You don't know the future of what God has in store. But I do know this. If you don't sow the seed, there won't be a harvest. If we don't plant some seed, oh, may God stir us, church. Just sow seed. Just sow seed. I I talked to a boy last night, a man, a dear brother in the Lord. We helped him try to start a church up in northern Maine, just as far north as you can go, without going into Canada. It is the end of the road in the United States. And I'll never forget. Miss Elizabeth may remember this. We're out there trying to witness. That was the hardest, meanest outfit I'd ever seen I gave a lady at McDonald's a gospel tract, or tried to, and she, when she saw what it was, she came through the drive-thru window and tried to punch me in the head for giving her a gospel tract. And you say, what'd you do? Did you walk drive away and pray for her? First, I wanted to retaliate. I said, if you get halfway in this car, we'll go for a ride down the highway, lady. But that was my flesh, and I immediately said, God, get it under control, because that's not going to start a church there. And so We went on. I remember that night, listen, every single night we we rented a big pavilion in the middle of town. And every single night we had disturbances. I mean serious disturbances, to the point that we had to have armed men around the thing while we tried to preach. And then when that didn't work, and we kept preaching, kept having service, when that that they they realized that wasn't going to work, they waited until there were just three or four of us trying to leave. And they must have knew who was armed, and and just thanks be to God that there was one man who decided that night to carry who hadn't been carrying previous. There were about twenty-five teenagers come in, these jacked up trucks, and they circled that pavilion, got out, they were drinking and carrying on and they they said, you know, we don't want this in our town. They started going on like that. And it happened to be actually Brother Bell, he was up there. Brother Bell had his had his pistol and he just kind of pushed his coat aside like that and said, Now what are you saying? And they went away I look I I feel that so you just have to get over there are places where sometimes you gotta speak in ways different. And here here that guy. Them guys, man, they're just they're all this morning, or last night rather, I talked to him. He's got a little church up there. He's preaching the Bible. People are getting saved. Had had quite a few people saved for that size town. And and they're going on. They're going on. You know why? Sow seed. You know what he's doing this morning? He's sowing seed. You know what he's gonna do tonight? He's gonna sow some seed. You know what he's going to do again on prayer meeting? He's going to sow some seed. You know what they're going to do through the week? They're going to sow seed. They're just going to keep sowing seed, sowing seed, sowing seed. And I'm saying church, we just got to keep sowing seed. God help us, please. Stir our hearts to seed. We've got to sow seed. Yeah, you'll deal with the devil. Yes, you'll get discouraged. Yes, you'll get delighted, but don't let any of that stop you. Just keep sowing seed. Now listen, if you're sitting here not saved, you don't have no seed to sow. Your soul needs to be saved. Christ died for your sin. He went to an old rugged cross and he shed his blood so that you could be saved The sacrifice God provided was not in a lamb that lived in a field. It was the Lord who they laid in a manger and lived and died on a cross for your sin. Paid it in full. He loved you so much. He paid your whole debt. And he went to the grave and he rose again the third day. And he saves everyone who will call upon his blessed name. What a glorious thing salvation is. It's full. It's free. It's found in Jesus Christ. My friend, if you're not saved, you need to be saved. Hear the Lord deal with your heart. And there's hope for you. If you're sitting here saying, Preacher, I'm lost and I'm on my way to hell and my sins are dragged, listen, there's hope for you. Look to Christ. Look at the Lord Jesus. Smaranatha can't do a thing for you. These altars that are wooden can't do a thing for you. You could get up here in the baptismal tank and that won't do a thing for you, but if you'll cry out to the God of mercy, he in mercy will save you and pardon you and cleanse you, and he can deliver you and make a new creature out of you. Cry out to him before it's too late. Hell's real and eternity's too long for you to play fast and loose with your soul. You need to be born again. Dear brother and sister, let God burn deep in your heart a principle. A principle that's deeper than outward excitement. A principle that says people need Christ and I've got the seed and I need to sow it. Sow seed, sow seed. Let's stand together, please. Our Father, we thank you for the opportunity