I want you to open your Bible, please, to first John chapter number four. 1 John chapter number 4, and when you find your place, I'll invite you to stand with me, please. And I'd like to read the first four verses in your hearing. First John chapter number four, and verses one through four Notice the Bible says, beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits, whether they are of God. Because many false prophets are gone out into the world. Hereby know ye the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God And this is that spirit of Antichrist, whereof ye have heard that it should come. Even now already is it in the world. Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them. You say, them who? Them, the spirits Them the false prophets, them the spirit of Antichrist. Ye are of God little children, and have overcome them, because greater is He that is in you Than he that is in the world. I want you to think about what's being said here. May the Lord help us tonight. Brother Andy, would you lead us in prayer and ask the Lord's blessing, please? In the name of Jesus our Lord and Savior, we just come and ask your blessing on the rest of this service tonight. Lord, we've been blessed to be here already with uh with the music service or with the fellowship that we've enjoyed, but now Father, we need to hear from you. And uh, or we just ask you to Lord, extend the mercy and grace that allow us to hear, Lord. Enable us to understand, to grasp what you have for us. And Lord, we know that uh we who are your children, you want us to understand, you want us to learn. us to grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Yes. Help us this night to do that very thing, Lord. May we walk out here tonight walking closer to you than when we walked in Yes. Heavenly Father, speak to our pastor and help us each one, Lord. You know the greatest need of each heart. Meet the need that Christ be glorified the more in each life. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You can be seated. I want to just call to your attention three things in the text here this evening. And the first thing is this thing of a battle. And I believe the first three verses of this chapter describe a battle that is unseen But oh, it's so very real. Just because we do not see the battle doesn't mean we're not in a battle. Just because you can't look at the battle or reach out and touch it with your hands or somehow or another feel the heat or the uh you know, the swinging of a sword or something of that nature The reality is there is a battle raging. And then I want to look at the birth, because uh John does something throughout all of this letter, and that is reminding us uh whose we are and to whom we belong. And all of our battles must be fought on the grounds of to whom we belong. We are the Lord's. He says we are of God. Little children. And then I want to look at the blessing. And there is a great, great blessing in the text. And I pray the Lord will use it in our lives. I want you to start this evening by looking at this battle. And he describes, if you read slowly and carefully and thoughtfully, verses 1 to 3, he's describing a great spiritual battle. There's a spiritual battle that is that is being raged here. Notice how he identifies it. Number one, he talks about the spirits. Do you see that? In verse 1, beloved, believe not every spirit. But what are we to do? We're to try the spirits. We're to try them. Now, I believe what is being described here are spirits that, of course, are not of God. They're spirits that are very real. There is a physical world, and there's a spiritual world. There is a realm that is physical in nature that you and I see and live in. But there's also a realm that is spiritual in nature. There is a spiritual realm. And in that spiritual realm are battles that are being fought even now. There is a realm where there are spirits. Now, we know that God has spirits. They're called ministering spirits. According to Hebrews chapter number one, and they are what we would call angels. And those angels are very real. Uh people say, well, you know, angels are are mystical, angels are allegorical. Well, the Bible tells me they're real. And it even says that sometimes we entertain angels unawares. And so it may very well be in your lifetime. that you have encountered angels, didn't know they were angels, but somehow or another they were involved in your life, and because of their involvement, they might have very well spared your life. They're real. And they're often unseen. But just as God has angels, the devil has spirits And those spirits, we call them demons or devils, the Bible calls them, evil spirits, and they they too are very real. According to the word of God, number one, they're evil. Saul had an evil spirit that plagued him, troubled him. We also know that they're very influential. In other words, they have great power. And then we also know that they're abundant. There's lots of them. The Bible says we're to try the spirits, because not every spirit is from the Lord. Now, I believe that much of the battle that we are engaged in tonight is spiritual in nature. And oftentimes we miss it, we miss what really is going on because we don't recognize that we're in a spiritual battle. We say things like this, well, I'm just discouraged. Well, you might be fighting something out of hell. I'm not listening I I'm not talking about putting or giving credit to the devil where credit's not due, but I'm here to tell you if you're saved tonight, you were engaged in a battle. That if God were just to open your mind and let you see for a few minutes, it might scare you to death. It's a battle that's very real. And I don't attribute every little thing. You know, I I read of this guy one time that uh, you know, everything that happened, he said, Well, that must be the devil. He tripped going down the stairs, said, Well the devil must have made me fall. Well, I'm not going to go so far as to blame everything on the devil, but I'll tell you what, there's a whole lot that goes on in your life and mine that is from him. The spirit. And I believe that's a powerful spirit that's abundantly working in the day in which we live. You say, how in the world can people believe the crazy things they believe? I'll tell you why. Because of the spirit of deception. You need to pray for our state because tomorrow they're going to vote in committee to bring a bill to the House That will legalize assisted suicide. And if you go to the doctor and you are Told that you have six months to live, they can prescribe you a medication that you can take it home and quietly exit this world. And you and I who are saved look at that and say, well hold on. How many people have been told you've got six months to live and live a lot longer? Number two, the Bible says it's appointed unto men once to die. Who sets the appointment? Not me, but the Lord. But how in the world can people rally for something like that and say, we need to do this, we need to give that right to people? I'll tell you how. The spirit of deception. The devil's very real. And a lot of things that you encounter in your spiritual walk is simply nothing but the spirits that you're battling in an unseen world. How many of you have noticed that the Lord's day is often the hardest day to get to God's house? Have you ever noticed that? You can get up and go to work, I mean you just go to work. Or you get up, go to the store, and you can go to the store. You get up, go to church, and everything that can go wrong goes wrong. Do you believe that's an accident? Do you think that just happens? Have you ever noticed that, I mean, you can be going fine and everything going well, and the Lord's day is that one day. That things that would never bother you bother you on that day. Um, we've had a rule since I've been preaching. In my home and we, especially on Sunday morning, the Lord's Day morning , we don't do a whole lot of discussing about anything. In fact, I've found that on the Lord's Day, the fewer words we speak, the better off we are. You say why? Because there are spirits. And there's a battle. Do you understand? Now I know some of you are gonna have to shift your halo for this message, but uh you just straighten around and hear me out because we are in a battle. We're in a battle And my Bible tells me that I'm battling something here, the spirits. These spirits I've got to try. I've got to put them to the test. Is this from God? Now that tells me that these spirits can often Veil themselves or disguise themselves to make me think it's God. That it's God saying this, or it's God speaking this way. And he says you better try them. Not every impression you get on your heart is a godly impression. You say, well, preacher, I you know something. I I I I just think the Lord's pleased with this. Well, you've got a surefire way to know. It's called 66 Books in the Bible. I'll never forget it. It's a young preacher, assistant pastor, and a man wanting to meet with me and Pastor Terry. And he sat down and he said, the Lord's told me something I gotta tell you. I said, what? Yeah, the Lord's told me something I need to tell you. And we sat there that Sunday evening. Man, I c I can still remember a lot of things and details about that night. And he sat there on the platform on a stool that was over there for one of the the player that one of the individuals who played a guitar. Here's what he said. He said, The Lord told me, the Lord told me to leave my wife. And Pastor looked at him, looked at me. That's one time I was glad I wasn't the pastor. And he said, yeah, the Lord told me to leave my wife. And just to inform you, the Lord also has given me permission to marry the piano player. She also had a husband. And it wasn't him. Now, I'm going to be honest with you, that man was absolutely convinced that God told him to do that. That dear pastor took his Bible and showed him verse after verse after verse, and that man refused he said, No, God told me. God told me. My friend, listen to me. God never contradicts the Bible. And you can always test the spirits by the word. But know this that the spirits the the spirits that he's talking about are so convincing that oftentimes we will think, yes, God God told me, God gave me permission, God says it's okay. And that's why we take the Word of God and we try the spirits. So we see we're in a spiritual battle against these spirits. Oftentimes the heaviness of your spirit, perhaps it's a deep, deep sadness that settles on your heart. Know that oftentimes that's just a battle. It's a battle that you're fighting with the enemy, and the enemy's trying to bring your heart down, and it's part of these spirits that we deal with. I know sometimes we don't focus, and we ought not to focus on evil. The Bible says we're to be simple concerning things that are evil, but we also need to be aware of the way the enemy works. There's all sorts of battles that you and I are going to face in our Christian life. You say, preacher, I'm frustrated or I'm dealing with this, that, or the other. And I just feel this oppression, this heaviness. And can I remind you that is these spirits that we're talking about? And you're engaged in a battle against them. Brother, sister, you are a spiritual being. God made us that way. And you and I are engaged in battle and conflict and war and warfare that that is invisible to our eyes. But we are not insensible to its attack. You may not be able to see it But you sure can if you if you're paying attention, you can sense the struggle that you're in. It's a spiritual battle. Spiritual battle. I've often said there are places in the world you go, and I believe these who have been in places I'm about to describe. will tell you that you sense spiritual darkness. It's just real There's a heaviness that you live under. I can remember leaving certain places, and as I left those places, you could just sense that that that warfare. You could sense you're you're on the devil's front door. There's darkness and and and that battle that that you feel because you're trying to take light there. Now, I think in this part of the world it's not as a a keen thing because there there are more Christians and there are more lights. There's churches that Preach the word of God. But there are places you can go around this world where you sense this is the enemy's territory. We used to evangelize some on these reservations, and in doing so uh we have attempted to utilize some of the powwows that were being held and they would gather together and And we would try to go there and we learned in a hurry that that was one dark place. I've been to a few here in the in the States and a lot of them are just Um how can I say it? They're just shows for the white man. They're not real. But where they are real, the devil's very present. And where where they are doing more than just chanting and drumming, where they're conjuring and they're inviting and they're requesting the enabling of these spirits and the presence of these spirits. You know that you are in the presence of of darkness, in these in the presence of these spirits. You say, Why are you talking about this? I'll tell you why. Because we're rapidly becoming a dark corner in the world. And you and I are going to begin to understand even more clearly what many uh live through on a daily basis as we sense the oppressive work of the enemy. And let me just say this: it is a battle that we are in. And not only are we in a battle against the spirits, but look, he identifies false prophets. Messengers that are not from God. And he said they're going out in the world. They're going out in the world. They are messengers. They are And and I believe, and frankly, I think there are there are many of those such messengers that are gone out into the world. They're detrimental to the cause of Christ because they often name his name You remember that one that followed Paul, and these be the servants of the Most High God. Well, was he speaking the truth? Sure he was speaking the truth. But it wasn't from the Lord. And so these false messengers, I remember years ago, I'd only been passing about two months, and a lady came up to me and she said, I've got a message for you from God. I thought, well, last time I checked, we were on speaking terms. I don't know why I'd send it by you, but I'm gonna listen. And here's what she said. She said, you know, you don't want to upset me. I said, really? She said, yeah, everything I've ever prayed for, God has done. And then she went on to make some other veiled threats. And I thought, you know something? Not every messenger is a messenger from God. There are many false prophets, and they're going out into the world. But then notice in verse number three the Bible says, in every spirit That confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God. And this is that spirit of Antichrist. Whereof ye have heard that it should come even now, or excuse me, that it should come, and even now already is it in the world. Spirit of Antichrist. We're not talking about the Antichrist Himself, but the Spirit of Antichrist, the Spirit that prepares the way for the Antichrist to come. Sort of like the spirit of Elijah that was upon, or Elisha that was upon John the Baptist as he prepared the way for the coming of the Lord. And John said that spirit of Antichrist is come already. It's in the world right now. And you say, what is that spirit of Antichrist? It's that That spirit of prevailing and increasing opposition against the things of Christ It's that growing spirit that rejects the Lord Jesus and all He stands for. It's that opposition you feel oftentimes when you speak a word for Him It's that opposition that you sense when when when you're out in this world and you're standing for what's right I believe a lot of the cultural changes that are sweeping the land Are results of the spirit of Antichrist. This mad rush to murder the unborn. Spirit of Antichrist. Why? He hates life. He hates life. This gender confusion that's being propagated Do you realize they're battling right now to introduce textbooks to the kindergarten students of the state of Maryland that instruct them to question? Who or what they really are. That if you're a little boy and you have certain feelings that uh are often associated with uh a little girl, then it may be that you're just a little girl trapped in a little boy's body And vice versa. And they're very graphic. I've seen several of these. They're working on them. They're getting rejected. They send them back, read, write them, send them back. But who would have ever thought that there would be confusion over how God made you? Spirit of Antichrist. Spirit of Antichrist. This insane movement Of men marrying men and women marrying women. What is that? What creates an attraction between those that God made to be attracted to others? The opposite. I'll tell you what it is: it's the spirit of Antichrist. And it's increasing and it's prevailing in the society in which you live. You and I who stand for that, against that, and stand for what the Bible says, are quickly becoming a minority. You're not in the majority. And more and more we hear the word tolerance Acceptance, reception, and all of that is, let me say it again, the spirit of Antichrist. The amalgamation of religious forces The coming together. Who would have ever thought that Islam and Roman Catholicism would yoke up with Christianity? And create this new thing that Rick Warren's sort of the poster boy for, called Chris Lom. Who would have ever dreamed that there could be a union of darkness and light? Or a bringing together of lies with truth? Who would have ever thought that something like that could happen? Many of us sitting here shake our heads and say, it's impossible. You can't believe two truths. There's no such thing as two truths. But yet here we are. And men say things like, Well, as long as you believe something, and you're sincere in your belief. Oh dear brother, sister, you can be sincere as the day is long and be wrong. Sincerity has nothing to do with it. And I'll tell you what's happening, the spirit of Antichrist. We see a rising and a prevailing opposition To the gospel of Jesus Christ. Have you noticed how in public a person can mention the name of God? And there be no no reaction. I mean, y you they can say we pray in God's name or we pray in the Father's name or And and and you they shrug and move on. But let someone say, in Jesus' name. And what happens? Oh my. There's all sorts of censuring and all sorts of debating and all sorts of rebuking. Why? Because we can't mention that name. What is that? That's the spirit of Antichrist. Know this. The closer we get to the coming of the Lord, the stronger this thing's going to become. Some of you that have lived on this earth for a while see it in a practical way. There was a day you lived in where this opposition wasn't as prevalent. It was there. John said it was there in his day. He said it's here. And whether they recognized it or not, it was there. And it it was it was there in your day, but what's happening? It's increasing. Why? Because the hour for the man of sin is drawing near. And he's going to have such an audience prepared. That they 're going to believe a lie. He's going to explain the removal of multitudes of people. I'm talking about the rapture. He's going to tell a lie that he's going to set himself up as God, and men are actually going to worship him as God. And you know what's going to happen? That delusion and deception is going to be so widespread. I'm talking about the spirit of Antichrist. Friend, listen, Jesus is getting his bride ready. So is the devil. And you know what you're living in and fighting against and and and walking t uh uh in the opposite direction of That spirit of Antichrist. I hear people say things like You know, I'm just tired. And I often wonder if it's not more than just physical tiredness. We're fighting a spiritual battle. Now, I'm glad we've got resources, but I wanted to emphasize this evening that the battle is real and the battle is continual. And can I acknowledge something? Sometimes it's exhausting. Remember when Nehemiah was building the wall? And there was a period of time where they held a sword in one hand , trial in the other. And they worked and they watched. And they worked and they watched. And they didn't even take leisure, hardly to rest. There was a period of time they didn't it says they didn't even put their clothes off to wash. I mean, that's how on guard they were. That's what kind of battle they were engaged in. And I'm telling you, friend, that we're living in those days. I see the battle. Let me quickly get to the birth. Look in verse 4. In spite of the battle, look what it says. Ye are of God. Don't forget it. You want to highlight that. Year of God. And watch what he says: little children. And have overcome them. Don't forget that. In the midst of the battle, remember your birth. As you're fighting the battle Go back to whom you belong. Remember, you're of God. That simply means you've been born of God. All of the saved are born of God. Look over in chapter 5, verse 1. The Bible says, Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is what? Born of God. You're born of God. And if you're saved tonight, you've experienced the new birth. And so you're born of God. That means That you bear his nature. That's in you. And then notice this term of affection. He says, little children. Now, we might take that You remember when you were at that age and somebody uh maybe spoke to you in a way that you felt like they were talking to you like you were a kid and you're not a kid no more? Or at least you think you're not a kid no more And they get mad. You know? They get upset. Where were we? We were somewhere. I can't remember. We were somewhere with Sarah, and uh a man asked her, uh, he said, and how old are you, little girl? She said, I'm twenty-nine years old, and she was none too happy. Now, I got a feeling down the road she'll be thankful for looking younger than she is But nevertheless , this term is not derogatory. This is a term of endearment. He's saying, You're God's little children. Don't you forget when you're fighting hell by the acre, you're God's little children. You belong to the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Your children, you're of the aristocracy of the skies. Know this. You're of God's little children. I like this. And have Overcome them. Overcome them. Overcome them spirits. Overcome the false prophets. Overcome the spirit of Antichrist. You say, hold on a minute, preacher How in the world can it speak in the past tense of a battle that I'm presently engaged in? I'll tell you how. You've overcome in him. Romans eight thirty-seven says, In all these things we are more than conquerors. How? Through him that loved us? Through him. Listen, we don't fight for victory, we fight from victory. Victory is the birthright privilege of God 's little children. I know what you're thinking. You're sitting here tonight and you say, Preacher, I've lost a skirmish or two this week. I've been on my back looking up, beat up , stepped on Feel like I'll never rise again. Know this. The battle's not over. You you might a you might have lost a skirmish or two, but I will tell you this. The victory is certain as a child of God. In fact, back yonder on Calvary, the Lord Jesus defeated all of our enemies And conquered the devil, and through him we will overcome. We have already overcome. According to the word of God. Victory is certain. You and I sometimes give up too quick. We give in too soon We stop for the battle's really over. And my friend, I'll tell you when the battle's over. When you hear, come up hither. Or you hear the Lord say, Child, it's time for you to come home. And my friend, you'll realize then, hey, the victory's won. The victory's won. So I see the birth. Let me quickly get to the blessing. The Bible says in the latter part of verse number four, first John chapter four, because, that's a big because. Because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. You ought to wear that text out. And use it frequently. Number one, I want you to see the power, the blessing of God's power. He's greater. Do you know that word simply means larger and stronger? He's literally larger and stronger. He's more. He's greater. It doesn't matter what the battle is. And again, it's in the context of the battle, the battle with the spirits, the battle with the Spirit of Antichrist, the battle with the false prophets, the battle that you and I are engaged in. I can't see what the devil's doing, but I'll tell you what I know he's doing And I know he's fighting and I know he's opposing, but I'll tell you what, there's a God in heaven who's greater. He's more than anything the devil is. He's more. He's greater. This is not an exaggeration, nor is it just simply spiritual exhortation. It's the reality that He is greater. Remember this, only the Lord's omnipotent. He's all powerful. The devil's not all powerful, but God is. There's nothing our Lord cannot do. I appreciate the reminder this month for the choir as we've started every service. He's able. He is able. You say, what's he able to do? He's able to do anything. There's nothing that he cannot do. He is a mighty, powerful God. He is able. And if we need a revival of anything, we need a revival of the understanding that God is able. Ezekiel stands there and looks in a valley full of bones. And the Lord says, Can these bones live? You imagine being challenged that. I I'll tell you. Can I tell you a little secret? There's a lot of preachers who've stood and said, Can these bones live? And you you look at that, here's he's looking around, they're all they're they're they're not only bones, they're bleached bones. That means they've been there a long time. Can they live? Well, it's impossible. How can a bunch of bones live? And God says to him, Prophesy. Preach the word. And Ezekiel begins to preach the word. And and he said, I heard a rattling. And I'll tell you what, God began to do something among the bones. But the problem is, they're still just bones. You know they all came together. I don't want to get that little song in your head, but You know the account. But once again, all you've got is a valley full of skeletons, intact bones. Well, what good's that? And he says, Son of man, prophesy. Keep prophesying. And as he prophesied, send you and flesh. But now, I don't know what you call it, you've got a bunch of lifeless bodies. Because they're not bones anymore, they're covered with skin and and all of that. And yet they have no life. And he says, prophesy to the wind. And the breath came from heaven above. And that mighty army of bodies became living soldiers of the Lord Jesus. And what was dead, God made alive. Can God listen, God's able He's able to make the dead live. He's able, my friend, to do the impossible. Thank God he is greater. He's greater Have you seen the Lord do some things that seemed impossible? I can remember laying in my basement about two years into serving the Lord there in the north and thinking, man, I messed up. Where did I miss you, God? And it seemed like the more you preached and the harder you labored, the less fruit you saw. But I'd go to that passage in Ezekiel and I figured if God could make that valley of bones live, surely to goodness he could do something with people that had more than bones. Some of them even had breath. And I'm here to tell you, God's able. God is able I don't know your situation or what it is you may be questioning. You say, well, preacher, the fight I'm in seems so strong, I don't think I'll survive it. He's able He's able. Greater. Greater is he. He's greater. I I don't care what it is, you stand it up beside you you stand it up beside him. And he's always going to come out greater. Greater is he. I like not only this thing of power, but he's his presence. Look Greater is he that is where? In you. He's in you There's one who's in you, who's greater than all that's against you. That one in you Now being near is one thing, being in you's a whole different. That's where he is. I believe it was Brother Brad this morning quoted that verse in Romans about the indwelling presence of God. If a man doesn't have the Spirit of Christ, he's none of his. But listen, if you're saved, you have the Spirit of God inside of you. He lives in you. He dwells in you. Greater is he that is in you. They tell me there are certain native tribes that when they initiate their boys into manhood, they take them out in the wilderness blindfolded and make them think that they're out there all alone. And so they have to sit twenty-four hours through the dark night, listening to the cries of all the wild animals. The growling maybe of the bear, the howling of the wolf, the screaming of the panther And if they sit there and stay in their post, blindfolded, helpless feeling, and no doubt scared to death, and they make it for the 24 hours, then they're welcomed into the tribe as a man. What they do not know is that standing guard over each one of those young braves is the father of that young man. He's not blindfolded. He's armed and ready. He's not going to let a bear or a wolf or anything like that take and harm his son. Because that's his son. He's putting him to the test. And that young man thinks he's alone, but he's really not alone. And some of you sitting here have walked through things and you've said in your heart secretly, I think I'm alone. But I've got news for you. He said, I'll never leave thee nor forsake thee, so that we may boldly say, The Lord's my helper, and I'll not fear what man shall do unto me. Know this, you are never left alone. Greater is He that is in you. He's in you. And then look at this. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. He that is in the world. This is a position. I believe the reference to he that is in the world is the reference to the enemy. Who's in the world? Well, we know that all that's in the world is the lust of the eyes and the lust of the flesh and the pride of life. We know the ruler of this present darkness over this world is the devil. But yet greater is he that is in you than he that is in this world. Know this, our God is greater than the enemy himself, the devil, and all the forces he marshals, the spirits, the false prophets, the Antichrist He's greater than all of that, and he'll always be greater than that, for he alone holds the position of King of Kings and Lord of Lords. His position is greater. All are subservient and subject to him And listen to this. One day you and I are going to get a ringside seat to every knee bowing. Every tongue confessing, Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. You know why? Because he is. He is. And you're his. He is, and you're his. Don't forget it. Oh, the battle's real. He doesn't pull you out of it. He just walks you through it He doesn't take you around it. You know, I imagine them three Hebrew boys would have preferred a detour. I think we read that stuff and we spiritualize things and and we make it what it's not. I I know those boys were determined. They said whether we burn or not, we ain't gonna bow. But I imagine when they got up there close to that fire and that heat started pulsing on their face, they're made of the same stuff you are And perhaps in their heart they're thinking, well, this is it, it's going to be a bad way to go, but here we go. And I imagine if you said to them, hey fellas, uh, w would you prefer going around this rather than through it? Any sane man would say, now, Lord, take me by the detour. I don't want to go through it, just take me around it. I don't care how long it is, just get me around it. Don't take me through it. But the Lord says, not so. I'm going to take you through it. And my friend, aren't you glad that it was in the flames that they saw the sun? It was in that fire that they met the I mean, here's the Lord. King's looking in there, and he said there's four of them in there. And that fourth man is like the Son of Man. That fourth man, you know who he was, he's the Lord Jesus Christ. And it was there they met him. What I'm trying to say is this, is that my friend he holds a position that none other holds And if he wants to take you through the fire or through the flood or through the flames, he can do it because he's Lord over all. There's none above him. Now you need to remember something. The devil's not in charge. He's the accuser of the brethren. He's a great troubler of mankind, but only Jesus is Lord. He's in charge And I may not understand all that happens or is allowed to happen, but I know this, he's still God. And he's in me, not just with me, he's in me. And he's greater than he that's in this world. I'm never in the devil's hands. You know that You're never in the devil's hands if you're God's little children. You're in his hands. Now the Lord may tear down the hedge and let that rascal Mess up your yard. But when the Lord says get , He's gotta go. Job teaches us something, don't he? The devil had boundaries and he dared not cross them. You can go here, but not beyond it. You can touch his flesh, make him suffer, but you're not taking his life. I figure Job probably sat there and thought, this stuff's gonna kill me. Body cover, I mean boy, he's sores and he's scraping them. He was hurting. He was not hurting only on the inside, man. He's hurting on the outside. And he's suffering But he wasn't going to die on that ash heap. You know why? God had his hand in his life, his life in his hand. He said, devil, you're not going to take his life. And you and I need to remember something. The Lord is the one who's still in charge. That's a blessing. My preacher used to say this when I was young, and I really didn't get the full gist of it, but I'm learning. He would often say his Sovereignty keeps me sane. Or he would say it like this: my sanity rests in his sovereignty. Just knowing he's God. And a lot of times nothing calms your heart any more than just knowing, hey, he's God. And I can't explain it, understand it, don't know what's happening, but I know this. He's still God. A good friend of mine, his mother went to be with the Lord, several family members, just one right after the other. And he found a writing and and I'm trying to get to the root of it. It apparently was some old Puritan that wrote it. I've had trouble finding just exactly who the author of it is, but here's what he said, basically. He said this. God is and all is well. God is, and all is well. Yeah, but I'm I'm I'm struggling over here and Lord, I'm fighting a battle here, and I've got uh the I'm dealing with the spirits here and the spirit of Antichrist in the age, and I'm dealing with all these things. But yes, doesn't it calm your soul to hear the truth? God is God is over all of that. God is, and because God is, all is well. And forever shall be, so long as God is. And I've got good news for you. What God is, he's going to always be. Nothing's going to change the Lord. Church, God is, and all is well. Yeah, there's a battle. Thank God for our birth and the privilege that come along with it, and bless his name for the blessing of knowing that God is. And all is well. Would you stand with me please?