Of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. And all of God's people are going to be put in a place where they'll put God first, and it may cost you. But it's worth it. And I appreciate young people that'll put God first. I've watched so many over the years. Well, preacher, I gotta work, I gotta provide, I gotta do that. Next thing you know, they're out of church and ain't living for God. You don't have to do anything but please the Lord. And the Lord will look after you in his way, and he does. He does. You put him first, you'll never regret it. I want you to open your Bibles. I want to preach on that sacrifice, or not the sacrifice, but sacrifices, again today or this evening. But in 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 5, I want you to read a verse with me. 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 5, and just look at a few of the spiritual sacrifices that we can offer up to the Lord. 1 Peter chapter 2, and when you find your place, would you kindly stand with me as we honor the reading of God's Word? I'm going to read verse 5 tonight. 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse number 5. The Bible says ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house. and holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. I want to preach on those spiritual sacrifices for a few moments. Father, help us, please. I pray that you'd do the work that's needed in every heart. We thank you for what we've already heard, how our hearts have been stirred. We thank you for that encouragement. And now we're asking, Lord, that you'd feed our spiritual man, strengthen us with might by your spirit in the inner man. And have your way and will in our gathering here again, Father. Undertake for every need, save the lost, proclaim the backslider , strengthen your people just to Draw closer to you and live for you. And we'll thank you for what you do, for we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You can be seated. Now you'll notice again, Peter writes here that we are to offer up spiritual sacrifices. Now to you and I who are not Jews, sacrifices perhaps don't mean that much. But to the Jewish mind, those sacrifices was were very real. They were very part of of what they did on a daily, perhaps sometimes uh basis. And so they were much aware of what it was to take and offer something to God, to give it over to the Lord. They knew what a sacrifice was, and oftentimes it was it was a great sacrifice to take and give what God required. But we're not talking about those sacrifices We're talking about those things that are given to God as an expression of our worship to the glory of God. Spiritual sacrifices. Just as the legal sacrifice, which was the lamb or the bull or the goat or whatever the requirement may be according to the situation Just as those were brought and offered to God, so we are to bring some things and offer them to God as a sacrifice to Him. You say, preacher, what is it that he requires? What are those spiritual sacrifices that he's looking for? If you're making notes, would you mark number one? You. Go back quickly to Romans twelve, one. You know the verse. Romans chapter twelve and verse number one tells us I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice. Wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable servant. You know what he's saying? Present yourself. What sacrifice is the Lord looking for tonight? He's looking for you and I to give ourselves to the Lord. Lord, here am I. Isaiah chapter number six, Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up. What was his response to that? Here am I. He gave himself to the Lord. The spiritual sacrifice that we all must start with is the sacrifice of ourself. I heard the story of a little girl who uh during a missions conference Misunderstood what the preacher, or we think she misunderstood what the preacher was requesting. And when the offering plate came by As they were taking up their mission offering, the little girl placed the plate on the floor and she stepped. And her mother said, What are you doing? She said, I'm giving myself to the Lord. Now her mother had to explain that wasn't the kind of offering that they're taking up, but that's the kind of offering the Lord's taking up. He's looking for you, dear brother, dear sister, to offer yourself up to God. A spiritual sacrifice, the giving of yourself. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8, Paul's gathering up this offering, and he's getting it ready to take back to the poor saints of Jerusalem. And he challenges the people in Corinth by the example of the churches in Macedonia. And he says, I want to tell you how they've given liberally out of a great abundance of need. These people didn't have to give what they gave, but they gave anyhow. But he said they did what we did not expect first, they first gave themselves to the Lord. They gave themselves they said, Lord, here we are. Now whatever you want to do with us you can do, but here we are. We're taking the blank check of our life and we're writing our name at the bottom and we're putting it in your hand. Have you ever done that? That is a spiritual sacrifice the Lord is looking for. You know the problem is a lot of times we think we can do a better job running the affairs of our life than the Lord can. But I've got news for you. He's the only one that can run your life. He's the only one that can direct your life in the way it ought to go. If you want a life that's blessed and a life that's pleasing to the Lord, it may not be an easy life. It may not be the path that you personally would choose. But if you'll give yourself a living sacrifice to the Lord, it'll be that what God has desired. It's a spiritual sacrifice, and it's pleasing unto Him. Give yourself. What about this one? We go back to the Psalms for this, Psalm fifty, Psalm fifty-one. Would you go back there with me? Here's something else that's a spiritual sacrifice that you can offer up to God. I have a friend, and uh that sacrifice of himself, every morning he gets up, he makes this prayer. Lord, here I am afresh and anew, and I give myself to you. He said, before my feet ever hit the floor, I pray those words. That's a spiritual sacrifice. He doesn't want you to take a lamb to a temple, and by the way, in the New Testament, the assembly of saints is never called a temple. The temple is you and me. We're the temple of the living God. That's where he lives. And so as you begin your day, as you go about your way, Give yourself to the Lord. He doesn't want you to bring a lamb or a pigeon or a bull or a goat or some sort of physical, tangible sacrifice. But he does want you to give yourself. Is your all on the altar of sacrifice, Lady? Have you given yourself over to the Lord? I don't believe you'll be a joyful Christian until you've surrendered all to Christ. But let's look at this second one, please. Psalm 51, 17 says this The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. A broken heart. Have you ever humbled your heart before the Lord and given him that broken heart? You you see the the the thing that that that is opposite of this is the proud heart. Or the hard heart, that stone-like heart. That heart that that man displayed when he stood and said, Lord, I thank thee that I'm not as other men are And he went on to name the list of his qualities, all which were admirable as far as qualities are concerned, but none of them were impressive as far as God is concerned. God 's not impressed by who or what I am. He says, what impresses me is when you come with that humble, broken heart When you come with that contrite spirit, when you lay that broken heart, like that man who stood next to him, rather he could not even stand, he beat on his chest and said, Oh God Be merciful to me, a sinner. He couldn't lift his old head up. He was so humbled. And I'm here to tell you that's a sacrifice that you and I can offer to God continually as a spiritual sacrifice. I don't know about you, but I was thinking this afternoon, I'm glad God gives us the option of humbling ourselves. Do you know how many times you're told to do that? Multiplied numbers of times we're told, humble yourselves in the sight of God. Humble yourselves before the Lord. Again and again we're told to humble ourselves. Why? Because that's the gateway into God's presence. When we humble ourselves before the Lord. We also know that God is capable of humbling us. You look at old Nebuchadnezzar, boy, he stood full of pride and uh fame and and fortunes and he looked over that great kingdom and thought, what a great leader I am. And before the sun set He's lost his faculties. He's living like an animal. And and and all God did was just take his reasoning away. And after a period of time God in mercy restored his his his faculties and he he realized when he when when he got his understanding back there's a God in heaven. I'm gonna tell you something. I believe we're gonna see old Nebuchadnezzar in glory. You may not agree with me, that's okay. When we get there and see him, I'm gonna introduce you to him And say, I told you so. But Nebuchadnezzar, listen, he humbled himself. He said, There's one God. He's a great God. He's the only God. And he glorified God. Listen, God gives us the privilege to offer the spiritual sacrifice of humility, broken, crushed heart. in the presence of the Lord. That's a spiritual sacrifice. Look at another one here in the Psalm. Psalm 27, please. Go back to Psalm twenty-seven and uh look at this text, verse number six. Psalm 27 in verse number 6 says, And now shall mine head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me. Therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy. I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto the Lord. Here is another spiritual sacrifice that you and I can offer to the Lord. It's the sacrifice of praise. Psalm 107 and verse 22 says Let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving and declare his works with rejoicing. Do you realize that it is a spiritual sacrifice to offer praise unto the Lord? To give him the glory that is due his name. To express our gratefulness with our lips. In fact, the highest thing that you could do, or the greatest thing you could do, with the mouth God's given you, is to praise the Lord And to thank the Lord and to give him glory. Isn't it amazing how exuberant we get over all sorts of things on earth that are temporal in nature? I mean there are things that are not going to last. People will go to a ball game and scream their fool heads off and lose their voice and set in church like a dead old frog on a stump somewhere. And that ball game is gonna last all of whatever time it does, and when it's said and done, uh i it's it's over. It's over. And it don't make two hoots or a row of pins in as far as eternity is concerned. But yet we're saved by the grace of God and we can't let out a holy grunt and appreciation to glorify God and say thank you. Oh, may the Lord help us. In studying the Revelation, I've noticed one thing heaven's an awful noisy place. And a in a in a good way. Did you notice every time the saints are together, that that picture is drawn or that that explanation is given, we see them worshiping We see the elders on their faces. We see the the the angels rejoice. We see the saints rejoicing. We see all of God's people, and what are they doing? They're giving thanks unto the Lord. We're not talking about an emotional outburst, or we're not talking about something worked up. I'm talking about a purposeful, dedicated expression of appreciation to God for all that He's done He saved me from sin. He's washed me in his blood. The very least I could do with this redeemed tongue is to give him the glory for what great things the Lord has done. And I'll tell you what I'm not going to do with my tongue. I'm not going to wag it foolishly at someone whom I believe to be too excited about the things of the Lord. If I can't join in, I'll just cheer 'em on from the side and encourage 'em. You know I think of old Brother Jerry. He was one of our first associate pastors in my home church. And Brother Jerry was as big as a bear. He was a very large man. A contractor built houses and housing developments and all this all his life. And oh how he loved the Lord. But he was the quietest man you ever met. If Jerry said more than ten words to you, you were one of his close, close friends. He didn't have a lot to say. But he loved the Lord. I'd never seen Jerry take a lap. So we talking about it. I never seen him take a lap around the church. You say, you've seen that before? I've seen that before. I've seen him take a lap. I I never heard I never heard Jerry lift his voice and shout a hallelujah. I never heard it. I've seen him say amen a time or two, but I never heard his voice distinctly above all other voices. But you knew Jerry was in another world when he sort of cocked that big head sideways. And he's looking up, I can see I can see his face now, and he's got this smile, this otherworldly smile. He's enjoying something about the Lord. And although he didn't have that emotional excess coming out of his being, he was praising the Lord. Not trying to tell you you've got to be like somebody else or do what somebody else does. You you let them be. We had a young fellow in our church. He was singing in the choir. Bless his heart, Vince got so excited, he he just couldn't help it. You know, our choir was very uh very um high church choir I guess. Everybody had their robes on. And I noticed Vince that man he was get he was getting beside himself. He was trying to be good. But before you know it he jumped out of that robe and he was bouncing like a rabbit. And and I some of our people, you know, look down their long, stinky old spiritual noses and look down, preacher stopped. He said, just a minute. He said, I I don't have to hear a thing to know what's going on. He said, some of you are condemning this boy for what he's done. He said you better stop it. He said, I'm going to tell you why. You don't know where he come from You see, Vince's mother was on crack. She had given her life to drugs and abused her body with men. And I'll tell you, God in his mercy reached into that home and saved that boy. And God changed that boy's life, and he began to live for God, and he thought I could be somewhere down here on drugs or be in prison. Let him leap for joy. They did it in the Bible And there'll be some I I hope I I just hope this happens. I hope in heaven some of this crowd that's so stoic and stuck up spiritually, I hope God cuts you loose in that glorified body and you embarrass yourself in heaven. Because I'll tell you, he's worthy of our praise. I'm not talking about doing things in the flesh. Don't misunderstand me, but giving him the sacrifice of praise. Taking these lips that God has created, this tongue that God has given, and the vocabulary that God has enabled, and then utilizing it to say, Thank you, Lord. Let me ask you something. When's the last time you thank the Lord? When's the last time you deliberately purpose? You know a lot of times we relegate that to our feelings. I'll say thank you when I feel like it. How many of you know you don't always feel thankful? But you ought to be thankful. Didn't you teach your children that? You you know children by nature don't feel thankful. You give them something, what do they do? They take it. And they run off like a little rabbit, you know, they c and they're gone. But you know what you have to do? You have to say say thank you. I don't know how many times my mother would would get me and she'd grab me by my ear. If my ears are big and bent, it's her fault But she'd grab a hold of my top of the top of my ear and she'd hold it. She'd say, Now say thank you. And if I was reluctant, she'd squeeze just enough. But I was very excited to say, Thank you, you know. And I don't know how grateful I was. I just wanted Mama to turn loose on the ear and set me free. But you and I spiritually, God ought not to have to grab you by the ear You hear me? God ought not to I'll tell you what, you think about where you could be right now, were it not for the Lord. You think about where you could be, what your life could be like What tragic listen, many of us would already be in hell were it not for him. But he in his mercy has saved us. Ought to thank him every day, ought to praise him every day. Offer up to God the thanksgiving, the sacrifice of thanksgiving. Listen to Hebrews 13, 15. By him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually. That is the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name. I told you this morning I'm reading a story of Billy Bray Billy Brace said the Christians are the only one who take their stinkweeds and put them on display at the fair. Now what's he talking about? If you're familiar with fairs or we call them exhibitions up north, but fair, you know, where you go and take your goods, your things that you grow, you don't take your worst cabbage. That little shrively dried up thing that the bugs have eaten up. You take that big fat one. That one that looks I mean it looks like it it come i you know just out of a one of those seed catalog uh pictures and and you you don't you don't take the worst little dried up rock looking like potatoes. You take your big ones, your your all uniform size ones. You take the best And you put it on display because you want people to see the best. And here's what Brother Bray said. He said, God's people ought to give their best. They ought not to offer God the weeds and the and all of the troubles that come with their gardening, so to speak. They ought to give God their best. And when it comes to our praise We ought to ask God to loose our tongue, to give him the praise that he's worthy of. We ought never to give God the leftovers of anything. He's worth more than that. He's worthy more than that. He needs listen when if you get up here to sing, sing your best. And give God your best. If you stand in that choir and sing, sing to the best of your ability. When you stand as a congregation, by the way, we're not marking time. When the congregation sings, we're not passing time. We're not filling in the clock until 6. 15 or 20 when the preacher's going to get up and preach. We're exercising spiritual sacrifices. We're saying, God, we've come in this building because we want to offer you something that you're worthy of. And I want to take my voice and lift it up with my brothers and sisters. And I want to join in that great choir of people, giving you the glory that you're worthy of. Shame on us. Don't sit there with your head down and your mouth shut and mumble along or don't even sing at all. Lift your voice. It's not even about participation. It's about giving God the glory that He's worthy of. You you ought to treat it as if you're the only one singing to the King. And then sing with all your heart. Give God the glory. Give him the praise. We need to offer him the sacrifice of praise. Let me give you one more. It's here in Hebrews 13, and it's found in verse number 16. The Bible says, but to do good and to communicate, forget not. For with such sacrifices God is well pleased. That word, and and again you say, what's the sacrifice? The sacrifice is that of generosity. It's to do good or to especially aid someone in a tangible way. It's a benevolent contribution. That's what that communicate means. A benevolent contribution. It's to it's to give to a particular need. It's to uh to if you will to to clothe those that need clothing, to feed those that are hungry, to somehow or another aid some brother or sister In Romans 15, Paul tells those believers about how the other believers were gathering things together for the poor saints at Jerusalem. He said that you've been blessed spiritually. Now you're a debtor physically. The gospel started over there. And now they're suffering, and we can relieve them as Gentiles, and we can help them now. We can go back and do some things to bring them through this time of great suffering. And so d did you realize that that is An act of worship? That is a sacrifice that we can offer to the Lord? That it's something we can give and do in such a way that God is glorified and others are helped in a tangible manner. That is a sacrifice. God is well pleased. And notice that this is the only time you'll see this statement in relation to these sacrifices. God is well pleased. That pleases the Lord. He's well pleased. When God's people are not selfish and stingy When God's people have a generosity about them. When God's people look beyond themselves and look beyond their their own situation and see others who need. Have you ever noticed that it's often the poorest who are the most generous? It's right here in the Word of God, you see it all through the Bible. Those churches of Macedonia were the poorest and had the least, but they did the most. And often it's true in life. It's not the stars or the millionaires or the individuals that are rolling in the cash that do good with what they got. Oh no, most of the time that's watched over man guarded like Fort Knox's gold. But I'll tell you who it is. It's those little children of God who don't may not have a whole lot, but they give what they have. And they're generous in their gift. And you know why? Because they realize here's a sacrifice to God. What better place to invest in than into what God has commanded us to do? My Bible says if you stop your ears to the poor, that it's going to hinder God, He's going to stop His ears to you. That's a proverb. Oh, may the Lord help us. Our little church up north sat right on the highway, and we had more requests for help. I guess hitchhiking was the thing. And I don't know how many people would come in, especially on Sunday night, just passing through. It happened at least two or three times a month, sometimes more. And they would come through and and I remember some people getting a little upset and saying, uh, why don't they go somewhere else? And I said, you know what? Maybe God's just bringing them to us. Maybe he's trying to teach us that there's somebody around here besides us. Opening our eyes I'll never forget one man wanted to ride to the next town, which was 45 minutes, 50 minutes, up to a town called Moncton, New Brunswick. And one of my deacons said, he said, look, I'll take him. Will you go with me? I said, sure, I'll go with you. He said, we'll preach to him all the way. Man, he was excited. So we're driving up the Trans Canada Highway, and this was in the middle of winter. There's probably six, eight feet of snow in the median, and we're driving along and he's preaching the gospel. The only problem is, I don't know, something happens to us after about forty-five years of age. Everywhere our eyes go, our hands go. Have you noticed that? I used to could look over at deer in the field and stay in the road. Now wherever I look my car's going. I'm going right with it, you know. Something happens to you. Maybe Sister Jackie can explain the malfunctioning of our bodies at that point. But But here we are, and we're driving along, and boy Gary's getting full of the Lord, and he's preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ, and he looks at that fella. And when he does, we go off over here on this side and we come back. And I noticed that guy getting very, very anxious. He's adjusting his seatbelt. He's rubbing his lips. He's holding the the the help me handle up here, you know, on the car. He's got a death grip on it. He's scared. He is scared to death And we're driving along, and the next thing I know, that car got away from Gary and down through that medium, into that snow we went. But we were going fast enough. We were in a Volkswagen Jeddah. And that little Jetta just acted like a snowboard. We went up, and buddy, we're zooming across the snow, zooming across the snow, and we come out on the transcand on the other side going the wrong way And Brother Gary was able to get it back over. The next had an emergency lane, so we just ran, got over in that emergency lane, and that poor guy. I felt bad for him. He was shaken. I was shaken. I think we all were kind of upset. And Brother Gary looked over him. He said, Now, sir If you had have died just a minute ago, where would you be? That dear man said, sir, I do not know and I do not want to find out today. Please pay attention to your driving. I said all that to say this. We got to where we were going. This man was from England. He had hitchhiked across Europe and was working his way across Canada. He gave him a gospel tract and prayed with that dear man. And he got out and went on his way. As Gary and I drove back, I said, Gary, we'll never see him likely again. Have no clue what'll ever come of him. Don't know. It took money to buy gasoline. I mean back then even gasoline at that time was about six dollars and seventy-five cents a gallon. And so it took money to go up there and do that. It took time. It took our time after an evening service that we normally would go home and rest. But it was an investment. And you know what? Wouldn't it be something one day when you get to heaven you see that man that got scared to death on that ride and to realize that he got saved somewhere along the way? Do you believe God can do that? I believe God can do that. And I believe the tangible efforts of God's people will open doors that none other will. There are times that before you give a track, you need to give a sandwich. There are times before you share the gospel you need to meet a particular need. I'm not talking about a social gospel. I'm talking about the reality. If a man's belly is empty, it's hard to get his mind on the truth. If he's suffering in some sort of way, uh your words are just words, but if your comfort brings him comfort, then it's going to open his heart to hear the good news of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the Bible says that's spiritual sacrifice. That we can offer up to the Lord. Now, church, like Peter wrote here We're lively stones. We're not an old dead building. We're to build a spiritual house. We're a holy priesthood. We're to offer up spiritual sacrifices. Acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Notice, it is not that the sacrifices are acceptable, they're acceptable by Jesus Christ. We don't do these things to be saved. We do these things because we are saved. We don't do these things to be accepted by the Lord. We do these things because we are accepted by the Lord. And it's Those spiritual sacrifices And when God sees them done in Jesus' name and for his glory, they're acceptable unto him. May God help us to make some spiritual sacrifices. in the days that lie ahead. Would you stand with me please? Let's bow our heads. I'm just going