Also, you're a loving God, and you're a wise God, and you always do the right thing. And God help us now we pray. May Christ receive glory and honor. We pray if someone here tonight is unsaved, we pray you'd speak to their heart, draw them to the Savior, may they place their faith and trust in the finished work. of Jesus Christ on the cross of Calvary in the empty tomb. Lord, I pray they be saved tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Thank you for standing. May be seated When we think of a hedge, most of the time today in our culture and our society. Most hedges are just there as decorative or just a privacy thing to keep folks from peering into closely to our property or homes. But in these days a hedge and what the devil's talking about here, this type of hedge, was uh really a thicket. It was a uh it was a naturally uh uh grown fence around a property. to uh to keep wild beasts out and keep enemies out and also to protect uh things from inside from escaping, keep the cattle in and that type of thing. And uh the Lord here, or the the devil here actually mentions this hedge that the Lord has about Job. And I'm interested in this conversation we hear, and it's fascinating really when you think about how the Lord recorded this conversation between God and Satan. And uh Satan had to present himself to the Lord, and Satan does still report to our God And uh he is not uh just running uh things with uh with a totally free hand. God is still in control. Amen. That's good to be reminded in this season, especially. And uh when we have an election coming up, and do all that you can, pray all that you can, vote as many times as you can. Amen. And um that seems to be the way to do things these days, but do your part, but also understand that God is the one who sets up kings and he's the one who takes them down. And so the devil here he's reporting to the Lord, and uh it's interesting to me that it's the Lord that brings Job into the conversation. Now, when he asked the question, he asked Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job? He already knew the answer to that. Just as he knew the answer to the question when he asked Satan, Where do you come from? He knows all things But he brings Job into the conversation, and Satan le Satan certainly had considered Job and He had an answer all prepared. He said, Well, you know, Job fears you, and he lives for you, and he hates evil because uh because you brought so many good things into his life But if you take all these things away, he'll curse you to your face. And the Lord here, he gives Satan leave to He puts Job and all that Job has in the power of Satan. We read about that in verse number twelve. But until that point, with Job being in that hedge, there was security in that hedge, and there was safety in that hedge. I want us to understand that the Lord tonight, He can protect us, and He does protect us from the onslaught of the devil. From the attacks of the wicked one , we are in that hedge of protection that He has created for us. And nothing can happen to us unless it first passes through the approval of the Lord. We need to be reminded of that in these days. Not just nationally, and not just uh uh in our communities, in our churches, but in our families. And individually, in our hearts, in our lives, there's nothing that gets to us that does not first pass through the filter of God's grace, his love, and his hedge that he puts about us. And so in Job's life here, when we first read the story, we're reading that this hedge is placed about him, and the devil can't get to him in the way he would want to. But then in verse 12, all of that changes. All of it changes. And for years, when I read this passage, and my thought and my understanding My understanding was that God had removed the hedge, and that Satan now had access because the hedge was gone. But as I was reading in the book of Job and really just considering a biblical principle, I don't believe it happened that way. If you look in Job chapter 3, turn over there just a page or two, or maybe it's on the same page that you're looking at now. In Job chapter 3, look at verse number 23. This is Job's first complaint. And he says this in verse 23 why is light given to a man whose way is hid? And whom God hath hedged in. Now in in chapter one When Satan's talking about the hedge, he's talking about this hedge as something that has kept him out kept him away from from Job and the hedge has stopped uh him from getting to Job and this is God's protection and God's care God's will But now, listen, this this was before it was a place of security and safety and happiness and prosperity. But now in chapter three, when Job's looking at the hedge Now he's talking about the hedge as something that's keeping him in. And so it does not appear to me that the Lord removes this hedge. And I believe biblically we understand that even though Job is going to go through all of these troubles and all of these hardships, God's hand of protection is still over Job Job is still in God's hand. And so I don't believe the hedge was removed. What I believe happened is that Satan now had access to that hedge. And now within the hedge, the place of security and comfort and prosperity, all of a sudden now Satan's in there too. And you know what he brings? He brings suffering. He brings loss. We read about it here in chapter one. We'll read down through these verses uh uh if you're unfamiliar with them, or just to read them again, I think it's important. Look at verse number thirteen of chapter one. It says there was a day When his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house, and there came a messenger unto Job and said, The oxen were ploughing and the asses feeding beside them, and the Sabians fell upon them And took them away. Yea, they have slain the servants with the edge of the sword, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. Now look what it says in verse 16. While he was yet speaking. This guy had not even got through with his report to Job, and here comes someone else. Look what it says. There came also another. And said, The fire of God is fallen from heaven, and have burned up the sheep and the servants and consumed them, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. What's that next phrase say? While he was yet speaking There came also another and said, The Chaldeans made out three bands, and fell upon the camels, and have carried them away, yea, and slain the servants with the edge of the sword, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. Verse eighteen, while he was yet speaking There came also another, and said, Thy sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine in thy eldest broth in their eldest brother's house. And behold there came a great wind from the wilderness and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young men, and they are dead, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee Listen, we go through seasons of loss and hardship, but my this just seems to be on a totally different level. Just one right after another. This all happened on one day. He's lost his business. You ever wonder why he needed 3,000 camels? I think Job was a trucker. He had a trucking business. Right? He lost his business. He lost all of his workers except for what three or four. There are four of them. Right? There's four calamities. All of his servants are gone, dead, carried away captive. He's lost, listen, he's lost his children. Well, reading about what's taking place down in North Carolina With this hurricane and the floods, then I've heard of two families, and one of the families I I know, a dear friend of mine is a friend of theirs One family lost fifteen of the members of their family. Fifteen. Another family lost eleven members of their family. And one day I can't imagine the amount of loss and sorrow and grief Listen, we l I I hope you never read the book of Job and and and and and you get through later in these chapters and Job just starts he just starts talking. And he says some things that I'm sure he regretted saying. I hope you know, I hope when you're reading through Job, you don't jump on him like his friends did. But we haven't gone through those waters yet. Better have some grace for some people who are going through hurt and loss. You know, we we get on to Job's wife because she said, Doth thou still attain thy integrity? Curse God and die. And we said, boy, she was such a terrible, awful woman. She lost ten children in one day. She probably wanted to die. And it's just loss upon loss upon loss. Listen, when we read this story, one of the things we ought to be thankful for is the protective hedge that God has about our lives. Because what what the devil did to Job right here, that's what he'd like to do to all of us. There was security in the hedge at one time, but now there's chaos in the hedge. There's suffering in the hedge. Why? Because Satan's in the hedge. The writer of Lamentations, the Lamentations chapter three. He said this in verse number seven, he hath hedged me about that I cannot get out. You know, I was thinking about this hedge, and really it stands as a type of God's protection, but inside that hedge, that's a representation of God's will. No, Job was where he was supposed to be, doing what he was supposed to do. God was blessing his life and blessing his work and blessing his family but now all of a sudden he's losing all of that and it's just chaos and loss and grief and sorrow and you know what Job wants to do? He wants to get out. This hedge that used to be a blessing, now it's a barrier. I want to get out of this. Listen, I haven't been through what Job went through, but I can identify with this feeling. You go through some things, and you feel like if I can just get out of this situation If I could just be removed from what's going on here , Then I'd just be better off, my family be better off, all these people around me be better off Job wanted to get out. You ever wanted to get out? Wanna get out of this job? Want to get out of this church. Want to get out of this ministry. Want to get out of this marriage. Because things didn't turn out the way we wanted them to turn out. Can I tell you tonight? Getting out of the hedge is not a way to happiness or joy or fulfillment or blessing. Sometimes you have just have to ride out the storm. And there's something in this hedge That the Lord's going to do for Job that's going to be worth everything that he went through. In his loss. I made the statement earlier in the week, and I believe it's true The Lord may do things that hurt us, but he'll never do anything that harms us. You want to talk about hurting. Job is hurting. He doesn't understand why. He has no idea. He's going to go through several things in these in these f uh following chapters here. He's going to examine himself. He's going to start listen, he's even going to start getting to the point where he's doubting the Lord. And of course his friends are going to come along. And the Bible does call them his friends. A good thing it does, because we wouldn't think they were. I will give them this though. They sat with him for seven days and didn't say anything. They just mourned with him, kept with him. Job spoke up in chapter three, and that just kind of opened the door for them. They said, are you gonna be upset if we say something? And then they don't even wait for an answer. They just say something They're not going to understand what's happening in Job's life. They're not going to understand why. They will come to the conclusion that the reason why Job is going through all of these things is because he's done something wicked. Fourteen times in this book, I've counted, his friends will indirectly call him wicked. They'll say things like this they'll say, No. These types of things don't happen to the just. The ones who are just, and the ones who are walking with God, and the ones who are trying to please God, bad things don't happen to them. No, the bad things happen to those who are wicked. They don't call Job wicked, but they describe his situation and tell him only bad things happen to wicked people. Maybe you've been on the receiving end of that. Maybe you've been on the giving end of that. Can I tell you from just from the book of Job alone? We certainly know that this is not the case There are times when those who are serving God, the Bible describes this, this is God's word concerning Job, he was perfect and upright. He feared God and he eschewed evil. He hated evil. Now that listen, when it says he's perfect, it doesn't mean he was sinless. It's talking about his heart toward God. His heart toward God was perfect. He loved the Lord, he believed in the Lord. He trusted the Lord, he served the Lord, he honored the Lord with his with his substance, he loved God, he was a good man. As a matter of fact, as we read through these chapters, he would describe how people used to come to him to learn about God. And people would come to him when they had needs, and he supported the widows and the orphans. He was a good ambassador for God in his community. And yet all these things are happening to him. He's in this hedge. This place of security now has become a place of suffering. And he just seems like he's going through a season of loss. Now, the entire book is going to deal with this one question. The question of why. And that is the question that we often ask. That's the question that we really need answered. They're going to go back and forth as to why this is happening, what is the purpose of all of this But I listen, tonight, I want us to see from Job's life, and the reason why I wanted to see it from Job's life is because this is the same truth in our lives. God does have a purpose for suffering, he does have a purpose for loss, he does have a purpose in allowing uh Satan access Into the hedge. What's gonna go on in this hedge? What again, what Job is going to experience As a result of all these troubles are going to be of far greater value than what he had before You say, What is this? What what is the why Well, when you look at the scripture here and look at uh how the Lord worked through all of this, you really have to go to the end of the book. To have the answer. And I want us to go there. Look at Job forty two. Job chapter forty-two. Look at verse number one. Then Job answered the Lord and said, I know that thou canst do everything, and that no thought can be withholden from thee. Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore have I uttered that I understood not Things too wonderful for me, which I knew not. You know what Job's saying? There's some things that the Lord has taught me. In this trial, there's some things that I did not know before that I know now. And then look at verse number five. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now Mine eye seeeth thee. Wherefore I abhor myself And repent in dust and ashes. You know what Job is saying? Before all this took place I had heard of you, and I thought I knew you, and I thought I understood about you, and I thought I understood about me. But you know what you've done, Lord, in all of this, in the trial, and in your words that you've spoken to me since the trial? and how you've sustained me through the trial. Now I'm not just hearing about you, but I am seeing you for who you truly are. He had a vision of God and an understanding of God that he never had before. And listen, he could not have had this understanding of God without the trials, without the loss. Without the suffering. I wanna I want to just ask you a question here tonight. All of us have gone through suffering. I'm not even going to ask you whether you've gone through suffering because all of us do. We live in this world, we're going to suffer. It's a part of the curse that's upon this place because of sin. Let me ask you a question. Is it not during those times of loss and sorrow and pain and questions? That you really draw closer to God than before without those things. Listen, here's what happens in our life: we get so comfortable. When things are going well and when the bills are paid and the body is healthy and the family's happy and the job is going well, we forget God. We're appreciative. Yes, Lord, thank you for these blessings. But we don't really learn about God on the mountaintop. We learn about God in the valley. That's where we get a real close view of who God is. That's where we understand his heart. That's where we're drawn closer to him. Now, the reason why this may sound empty to us Is because maybe we've forgotten what our greatest calling is. Our greatest calling Is that we be conformed to the image of his dear son But we've had it so good for so long. We've started to associate the blessings of God. As the ultimate goal, as the thing that we're after. You hear about it all the time in these modern churches. How to get God's blessing on your life. And listen, I appreciate God's blessings in my life. I'm thankful for all of the blessings. But I do want us to understand tonight, God has not called us just to be blessed. He's called us to be like his son. And it's during the times of loss and heartache and sorrow that we draw closer to God Because it's in those times that we understand how much we need him. Job, listen. Job said, I I'm I'm seeing you now like I've never seen you before And the result of Job seeing God was this, verse six, wherefore I abhor myself. You know the basis of wanting the blessings of God is many times? Because we equate blessings with outward benefits. The thing that drives that is love of self But when you see the Lord, when your goal is to be like Christ, and you see the Lord in the in the scriptures, and you see the Lord, He works through the circumstances and troubles, in our lives to to reveal himself in a greater way to us when we see him. That causes us to be conformed to his image. Look at first look at first John chapter three. Hold your place there in Job, 1 John chapter 3. I'm saying that it's worth the trial to see the Lord. It's worth the trial to see the Lord, to see him as he truly is Why? Because in seeing him will be confirmed in his likeness. Look at 1 John chapter 3. Look at verse number 1. Behold. What manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Can I get an Amen there? Therefore, the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him. Why? For We shall see him as he is. You know what one of the one of the most grievous sins Of the modern Christianity circles is they do not listen, they do not preach Jesus as he is. It is a fake, make-believe Jesus. It's a Jesus who will just indulge you on whatever you want because you're the most important thing in the world. Listen. Our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, He is holy, He's sinless, He's righteous. And it is our great duty as believers of the Word of God and as children of God to show the world who Jesus truly is. And as we see him ourselves for who he is, look, that vision of Christ conforms us to that image. You know what the Lord did for Job? And it was a painful process, but you know what the Lord did for Job? He removed All the things around him that could take his vision away from the Lord. Look at Job 23 with me, if you will. Look at Job 23. You say, preacher, I I I don't want this to happen to me. I don't either. I don't uh and listen, I don't think you have to lose everything in order to see the Lord. But I am saying tonight, if we have to, he's worth it. And I'm afraid that we don't really believe that. Because we have too much. Because we are too comfortable. Look at Job twenty three. Look what it says here in verse number one Then Job answered and said, Even today is my complaint bitter. My stroke is heavier than my groaning. And I you know, I I I read this, I can't help but comment. Most of us, our groaning is heavier than our stroke. Just be honest about it. We're complaining a lot. We don't have it near as bad as what we say most of the time. And I'm putting myself in there too. But Job, listen, this has the uh the approval of the Holy Ghost on it. He said, My stroke is heavier than my groaning. He's having it hard. Look what it's causing him to do. Look at verse number three. Oh, that I knew where I might find him. See the exclamation? You know what Joel's understanding? I've got to find God. That I might come even to his seat. I would order my cause before him and fill my mouth with arguments. No , he's saying I want some answers. Verse 5, I would know the words which he would answer me and understand what he would say unto me. Will he plead against me with his great power? No. But he would put strength in me. Job's gone through all this, he still understands that God is good And that if he can just find where God was and just see him and just hear what he has to say, then God would put strength in him. Verse 7 Though the righteous might dispute with him, so should I be delivered forever from my judge Now listen to Job's words here in verse number eight. Behold, I go forward, but he is not there. And backward, but I cannot perceive him. On the left hand where he doth work, but I cannot behold him. He hideth himself on the right hand that I cannot see him. Don't he say, I'm looking forward, I can't find the Lord. I'm going back. Listen, you get in trials, and this is what people say, well, just keep going forward. Amen? That's not bad advice. I'm not saying that's bad advice, but some will say just keep going forward. Well, who was going forward? Still couldn't find the Lord. And then you have others that'll say, Well, you know what? You just need to go back. Go back where you lost him, and you'll find him back there. So Job tries that. He goes backward, he's not there either. He said, I look on my left hand, I see him working, I know he's at work. But it's not the work that I need right now. I need the Lord. And I'm looking, I can't find him over here. I go to the right hand. I can't find it. He's hidden himself from me. Look at verse ten. Say, why would the Lord do this? Look at verse ten. Job says this, but he knoweth the way that I take. I was meditating on this verse, and I was thinking about the fact That Job's three friends and even Job's wife had no idea what was going on. They didn't even know which direction Job was going. And Job himself didn't know what was going on. He didn't even know where it was headed. He didn't know the way, his friends didn't know the way, but Job understood God knows the way. And even though I cannot see him, his eye has not left me. It's important for us to understand, even listen, we go through hardship, even when we can't see the Lord, the Lord is still looking upon us. He knoweth the way that I take. It's not important that everybody else knows it. It's not even important that I know it. It is important that the Lord knows, and the Lord sees, and he's not going to make a mistake. He knoweth the way that I take. And look, listen to these words of faith. This is what he says, when he hath tried me. Job, it sounds like he's speaking of a future event. If I was Job, I'd be thinking of the trial was already done. But he understands that he's still in this trial. When he have tried me, I shall come forth as gold. He has great faith in what God is doing here. And even though he does not see God at this time, he still believes that the Lord is good, he still believes that the Lord is watching him, and this is what he he gives For counsel here. Look what he says in verse eleven. My foot have held to his steps. His way have I kept and not declined. Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips. I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. But he is on one mind. He is in one mind. And who can turn him? And what his soul desireth, even that he doeth. For he performeth the thing that is appointed for me, and many such things are with him. Know what he says? The Lord knows what he's doing. I'm just gonna keep, my steps are gonna stay right in his way. I'm keep I'm going to keep doing what I know to do. I'm not going to decline from his words. And he says this about the word of God. He says his word is more necessary uh uh was uh to me more more than my necessary food. Let me get the quote here. I've esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food You know what hardship does to us? It'll get you pushing away from one table and pulling up to another. And you know at the end, the Lord's going to give him all of his possessions back. The Lord is going to give him ten more children. And so now Job's uh listen in eternity, Job's not gonna have ten children, he's gonna have twenty. He got twenty. You think I have a lot of kids? Twenty He's gonna look he's gonna basically you look at the story and it and it uh at the end he's got everything that he had at the beginning So why do you have to go through all of this in between? Because it wasn't about the stuff at all It wasn't about that at all. The Lord used that to bring Job to a place where he saw him And he knew God in a way that he'd never known him before. Listen, some of the dearest saints that I know, some of the ones that I that I call If I need some prayer, if I listen, if I if I know I've got to have somebody to get a hold of the Lord for me, I'll call these people. You know the the common denominator of all these people, they're not all preachers Some of them are, but they're not all preachers. They're not all men. Let me tell you the common denominator of all the people that I'll call to pray for me, I'll tell you what it is. They've all suffered. They've all suffered greatly. And in that suffering, they achieved a fellowship and a nearness to our God. That they never would have, never could have without it. You say, preacher, does that mean we should sign up for suffering? We should sign up for the Lord's will. You know what happened in this hedge? First, there was security in the hedge, then Satan got in the hedge, then suffering got in the hedge, but then you know what happened in the hedge? Seeing happened in the hedge. And Job saw the Lord like he'd never seen him before. Can I give you one more scripture? Look at First Corinthians. I'm not 1 Corinthians, I mean 1 Chronicles. 1 Chronicles. The word hedge does not show up very many times in the Bible. But I want to take you to the first mention of the word hedge in the Bible. We have something that we call the law of first mention. In your Bible study. And the law first mentioned just simply means this the first time you find a particular word in the Bible. Kind of sets the tone for that throughout the scripture. And interestingly enough, in 1 Chronicles chapter 4, in the middle. In the middle of the genealogies. Ever reading through these things, you think, why in the world do we have these genealogies in the Bible? Now it's important on a lot of different levels, and I won't get into all that. It is important, especially for the sake of Christ, to show his lineage. And fulfill prophecy. But you know, in these genealogies, there's little nuggets hidden in these. In First Chronicles chapter four, we find the first use of the word hedge. It's in 1 Chronicles 4, verse 23. This is what it says. These were the potters. And those that dwelt among plants and hedges, there they dwelt with the king for his work. I looked at that and I thought, well, that's interesting. First time you see a hedge in Scripture, it's talking about these group of men. That were working in these hedges. They dwelt in these hedges. They were potters. And they're dwelling in that hedge with the king for his work. You know what the Lord does in the hedge? He puts us on that potter's wheel. And our sufferings and our losses are all part of God's plan. To conform us to the image of his son. You know what the king's work is? That's what the king's work is: to conform you and I. Into the image of Jesus Christ. And in that hedge, the Lord is doing eternal work. So I want to encourage you tonight, as we wrap this up, I want to encourage you. Number one, the hedge is always there. Even when you're going through hardship, you're still in the care of God. And also, God is using the suffering and that hardship to fashion you, to make us more like Christ. And also I want us to understand that the Lord is in that hedge with us. The king's there. He hasn't left, even though it may appear that he has. And he hasn't lost his power, although you may think he did. He's there. He's in control. What's happening in your life is part of God's plan to make you more like Jesus. And there's gonna come a day when the Lord's gonna call us out of that edge. But here's the challenge tonight. If you're looking at in the hedge as God's will for your life, here's the challenge. Don't get out of it. Here's here's the temptation is when trouble comes Let me just leave. I just need relief. I just, if I could just get out of this situation, things would improve. I would improve. No, stay in that hedge. Stay on that potter's wheel. This is what Job said when he's tried me. Not I might, I shall come forth as gold Let's stand together. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word tonight. Lord, help us to trust you. Lord, we look