I'd like to read the whole chapter, being that it's ten verses in length. We've been making our Sunday evening service since we completed our study in the book of Revelation. A practical study of the Word of God. We've been calling it Christianity one oh one And so in 1 John chapter number 1 , we read about a very important subject, something very important for all of us. And I'm going to take my text out of verse number nine, but let's read the whole chapter as we begin. Notice what it says in 1 John chapter 1 and verse number 1. That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes. Which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled of the word of life. For the life was manifested, and we have seen it and bear witness, and show unto you that eternal life Which was with the Father and was manifested unto us. I want to stop reading there and say this. We're talking about a person here. We're not talking about something that is sort of an imaginary thing. We're talking about a literal, visible, physical, actual. And of course that person is the Lord Jesus. Verse 3 says this: that which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you. That you also may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. These things write we unto you, that your joy may be full. This then is the message which we have heard of him and declare unto you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just. To forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. Now please look at verse number nine again, if you would. Verse number nine says, if we and I like to think about this verse in that way, if we, he is. See it? It says, if we confess our sin, he is. If we, he is. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I'm going to ask the Lord to help us as we pray here in just a moment, but I want to preach this evening on staying in fellowship with God. Stay in fellowship with God. Let's pray. Father, we bow our heads in Jesus' name and thank you for the privilege that we have now, Lord, to be here with our open Bibles. We open our hearts and pray that the Spirit of God would have his way. For these few minutes that we have together, Lord, would you separate us from the cares of life and other distractions that might keep us, Lord, from hearing your voice and getting the help you want to give. And Father, would you help me just now? Please hide me behind the cross and fill me with the Spirit and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. Would you help us in our walk? Would you strengthen some brother, some sister? Would you encourage the saints of God, we thank you for the provisions you've made that we might stay in sweet fellowship with you Now Father, please undertake for the deep need of every heart. We'll give you the glory, for we ask these things in Jesus' name, and God's people said 1 John chapter 1 is written to saved people. You need to understand that. We're not talking about people who need to be saved, but we're right, he's writing to people who are already saved. And let me remind you of something tonight. If you are saved, your relationship with the Lord is secure. There's no such thing as needing to be saved again. John chapter 10, I think if we only had one verse, and we've got a whole bunch. But if we only had one verse in our Bible that that helped us with this thought of being saved and knowing we're saved and having that security of our salvation, I believe it would be John 10 and verse number 28. The Bible says, and these are the words of the Lord Jesus, he said, I give unto them eternal life. And we could stop right there and that'd be enough, wouldn't it? I give unto them eternal life. What's eternal life? Life that never ends. Life that does not expire. If it was not eternal life, it would have some other name. But he said, I give unto them eternal life. And then he adds this, and they Who's they? They who he's give eternal life. If I can say this, the they are the them. I give unto them eternal life. That the them are the they. Alright? Not being trying to tongue tie myself or you, but to help us understand who we're talking about. Them who have been given eternal life, they and they, look at it, shall never perish. Never perish. That means there's no chance of ever perishing. Uh I understand that's a double negative, which is a no-no in the English language, but the reality is it means no not ever It's utterly impossible. It cannot happen. It's emphatically impossible. They shall never perish. And so he said, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. And then he adds this neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. Now, folks, if that's not security, I don't know what is. Your relationship with the Lord never changes. You have eternal life. You have the promise you'll never perish. If someone says, Well, preacher, I once was saved, but I need to be saved again, well friend, let me say this. If you ever were saved, you still are saved If you've ever been born again, you are a new creature, you are saved, and you're just as saved as you're ever going to be. But it may be that you're not in fellowship with the Lord. Although our relationship is secure, our fellowship fluctuates The word fellowship here means to have mutual enjoyment of one another. If I could say it like this, as the song puts it, nothing between my soul and my Savior. If you're in fellowship, it means you're living with nothing between you and the Lord. It means that you're right with God. No sin that needs to be dealt with. There's no distance that needs to be uh reconciled. There's nothing there. There is nothing between you and the Lord. And so this thing of fellowship, and I want you to think about how do we stay in fellowship with the Lord. I don't have to figure out how to stay saved. He's already secured that for me. But what I do have to learn is I have to learn to stay in fellowship with the Lord. Now it's very possible that you're in this building saved. You're going to heaven. It's very possible that sitting in this building are men and women who have put their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He has given to you. By the way, you don't have to die to get eternal life. You've got it already. According to Scripture. He said, I give unto them. That means right now, this very moment, you have in your person eternal life, in the person of the Lord Jesus. And it's very possible to have eternal life and to have the promise of God that you'll never perish and to have the assurance that nothing can pluck you out of the hand of the Lord. And yet not be in fellowship with God to have something between you and the Lord That does not mean you need to be saved. That means that you need to get that thing right and do what the Bible says we're going to study tonight and get back in fellowship with the Lord. I want you to notice just quickly the privilege that is ours. And he describes it in the first four verses of our text. He tells us that we can have fellowship. Look at verse number three. That which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you, that you also may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. Now, if you're saved, you have the privilege of being in fellowship with the Lord. That means, like old Dr. James Stewart used to say, living with an open heaven. Living with a with a direct line, a direct access to the Lord. Living so that there's nothing that clouds or dims or causes doubt or dismay, living so that you can say, I'm right with God and God's with me and live in fellowship. Now that's a privilege. That's a privilege that every saved person can enjoy. And I I might want to add this tonight, it's a priority we ought to make in our lives. The most important thing in your Christian life is to stay right with God. The most important thing in our walk with the Lord is that we learn how to stay in fellowship with Christ. When the Lord Jesus washed the disciples' feet, he taught a lesson on fellowship. Those men were, we say, well, he's teaching them to be servants. Well, he was also teaching them how to have fellowship. When the Lord Jesus got on his knees and took the towel and the basin and washed their feet, Peter ultimately said, Well, Lord, wash me all over. He wanted to be so near and right with the Lord that he didn't want to miss out on anything. And the Lord said, he that's washed need not be washed again. In other words, Peter, you're saved. You don't need to be saved again, but your feet are dirty. And because your feet are dirty, they need to be cleaned up so that we can have fellowship one with another. And so he began to wash those feet and began to cleanse those disciples so that they could understand, although they had already been clean They needed a cleansing so that they could enjoy fellowship with the Lord. I want you to notice not only is the privilege, uh our privilege of fellowship, But the privilege to fellowship is found in the Word. We often think, well, how do I fellowship with God? Let me say this: you fellowship with God in direct proportion to the Scripture. Look in verse 1. He says, that which was from the beginning, which we've heard, which we've seen with our eyes, which we've looked upon, and our hands have handled, look what he says, of the word of life. Now, of all the things he could have called the Lord Jesus and all the titles that could have been used here, the Spirit of God said, This is the one. Word alive. John said it like this, in the beginning was the what? The Word. And the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. And then it goes on to tell us, and the word, so that we know who we're talking about, in verse number 14, the word became flesh. And dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Who are we talking about? We're talking about Jesus Christ. John said, our hands handled Jesus Christ, the word of love. Our eyes saw Jesus, the word of life. Our ears heard the voice of Jesus, the word of love. He said, We've looked on him, we've watched him, we've touched him. And then notice what he says in verse 3. He says, that which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you. How did he declare him unto us? Through the word. So the privilege to fellowship with the Lord Jesus is found on the word. You say, preacher, I want to get near God. Get near your Bible. I want to meet God, meet him on the pages of your Bible. I want to walk with God, walk with God on the pages of Scripture. I want to hear God speak. Read the Bible, and He will speak Somebody said, I want to hear God speak out loud. Read your Bible out loud, and you'll hear God speak out loud. Because fellowship is found in the Word of God. You cannot have fellowship apart from the Bible. Now, that might be the problem in some lives that we need to rectify this evening. You say, I want to have fellowship with God, but you never read your Bible. Well, you're not going to have fellowship as long as you keep your Bible closed. You find fellowship when you open the Bible and begin to see what God has to say to you particularly. And aren't you glad God has a relevant word for us? God has something to say, and he has something I need to hear him say, and he says it through his word. And then not only do we find that we have the privilege of fellowship, that fellowship is found in the Word, But it produces fullness of joy. Look in verse four. And these things write we unto you that your joy may be full. Someone said that joy is the barometer of fellowship. We know that we have fellowship with God by the measure of joy that we have in our heart. If there's an absence of joy, there's an absence of fellowship. If there's an abundance of joy, there's an abundance of fellowship, because again he says that I write this unto you that your joy may be full. It's fellowship that produces joy. Our joy does not come from the happenings of life. Our joy does not come from the circumstances that come our way. Our joy comes from walking hand in hand with the Lord God of heaven. That's where joy comes from. It's the barometer of our fellowship. Now that's our privilege. Now John addresses something that's a problem. And he starts in verse number five by saying this, this then is the message which we've heard of him, and declare unto you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. Now, this isn't a problem for God, but this is a problem for us. He's pure. That's why he says God's light. And there's no speck of darkness in him. There's no measure of darkness. He is light. The God of heaven is pure. There's no impurity. And he's so pure that the Bible says he can't look on sin. He's such a pure God that he can't have fellowship with sin. The Bible says in the Old Testament, how shall two walk together except they be agreed? It's utterly impossible for you to walk in the way of sin and walk in hand with the Savior. God is dark is light, and there's no darkness in him at all. So that is a that is the purity of God. There's no admixture. There's no what was it, Vance Habner said there was a a new color formed in his day. They called it Parsons Gray It was a mixture of black and white and a blending of the two. And he said, that's just what the world wants to do. It wants to blend right and wrong. But God can't blend right and wrong. You can't blend the two together. There's an absolute line drawn in the character of God. God's absolutely pure. And because he's absolutely pure, that brings the problem to light. You'll notice he talks about pretending here. Three times he says it. If we say, if we say. In verse 6, if we say we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, look what it says, we lie and do not the truth. If we say, you know what we're doing? We're pretending. If we say that we uh have fellowship, if we say we're in fellowship with the Lord, did you ever pretend anything when you were little? You pretended to be something, you know. I remember watching the Lone Ranger uh on Saturday mornings and it come on At five o'clock on our local ch station on Saturday morning. And I didn't care if it was Saturday morning and I'd gotten up every other morning. I got up at five o'clock because watching the Lone Ranger was the thing to do I mean seeing him mount that white horse, high ho silver, and away, you know, and beat all them bad guys and wear that mask. I mean he was a hero to me. And I would watch him, and then you know what I'd do? I had a bicycle. I had a swin bicycle. Some of you remember those old things. It had a frame on it like that. You couldn't wreck it or hurt it for nothing. And it had big old chrome fenders on it over each wheel. You remember those? Swin was that was the name of that thing. And I remember getting on that, and that was my silver. And so I would pretend all morning, every Saturday morning, that I was a Lone Ranger. Now I didn't have a Tonto. My sister wouldn't get out of bed and be Tonto. So I had to be a Lone Ranger on my own. I was a real deal, Lone Ranger. And I'd ride all over the yard and all through the cornfields and up and down the road and I was pretending I was no more the Lone Ranger than I was Superman. But in my little heart, I'm zooming down that road. That old swin bicycle might as well have been a Tennessee walking horse. I mean it was something special and I was pretending, but the truth is that's all I was doing People say, I'm in fellowship with God and they walk in darkness. They live in sin. You know what he says? You're lying. And not doing the truth. I didn't say that. God said that. So if you get mad at anybody, get mad at him. I'm just delivering the mail. The Lord said, if we walk in darkness, if we say we have fellowship and we walk in darkness, That's pretending number one. Look at verse number eight. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. That's the pretending of deception. We've deceived ourselves. I have no sin. I've done nothing wrong, you know. Doesn't the Bible say we're awful quick to justify ourselves It does. It it says that that's the nature of man. Every man, the proverbs say, every man will proclaim his own goodness. Every man will say, but I I didn't do anything wrong. No. Isn't it amazing everybody in jail is innocent? I I mean just about everybody you talk to. I I I got framed, that's what I'm doing. I I'm not I shouldn't be here, it wasn't my fault. Well, there's a deception. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. And notice this: the truth is not in us. You know what the truth does? The truth shows me the sin that is there. The truth of the word of God takes the covers off our sin and says, I want to show you something you need to see. And then there is the pretending of denial. Look at it. Here's the third if we say it's found in verse 10. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. If we say that we have not sinned, this crowd that believes they can't sin after they get saved or sanctified. Needs to really read 1 John chapter 1. They need to recognize that to say we have not sinned is to literally deny the truth of the scripture. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There's none that doeth righteousness, no not one Listen, the scriptures are quite clear, and so here's the pretending that takes place in our lives. But then notice the possibility. He doesn't leave us in that place of limbo. He says, but if we walk in the light That means if we walk in obedience to the truth, as he is in the light, look at this, we have fellowship one with another. And the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin. If we walk in the light, there's a remedy. The great problem that keeps me from enjoying fellowship with God is my sin. Now you get a hold of that, it'll help you. If we get really a hold of this, it'll help us spiritually and individually. You know, a lot of times we say, I would walk with the Lord if I lived somewhere else. If there was just a better environment, I mean if I just didn't have to put up with that or this or that one or those, if I had a different job, if I had a different environment, can I say to you, friend, If you're not walking with God where you're at, you're not going to walk with him anywhere else. But if we walk with him, if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. And here's the wonderful truth: the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. If you live in that state of fellowship, that place of walking in obedience, Dear friend, there is a privilege that you enjoy, and that's the privilege of continually cleansing, a continual cleansing from the blood of Jesus Christ. Now let's look at my text, verse 9, the provision of God. Notice what he says: if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Notice this requirement. If we confess our sins. You ever notice it's easier to confess somebody else's sin? Than it is your own. Isn't it really? The moat and the beam. That w we we can see a we can see a moat while looking around the beam. We can see that little speck while we're looking around a telephone pole. But yet the reality is that God says, here's what I require. Not you confess another sin, but if we confess our sin. If we confess our sin, that's what God requires. You say, preacher, what is confession? By the way Confession is not standing up and airing out your dirty laundry. We had a man in our church get right with God and he got up and started talking. I had to set him down. I said, We don't need to hear that. He not only was confessing sin, he was confessing crimes. I said, you keep that mess outside the church, you go deal with that where it needs to be dealt with, you don't deal with that in here. Shut your mouth, you talk to the Lord about it. But it says if we confess our sin, what does it mean to confess? The word confess is a combined word, a word, a two-word uh word in the Greek language, and it literally means to say the same thing. It's a matter of agreeing with God. If I can say it like this, it's you taking sides against yourself with the Lord. When the Lord says you've sinned, you say, Lord, you're right. When you confess your sin, you're coming saying, now Lord, I acknowledge that you're right about this. I was in the wrong. If the Lord were to convict me over a sin, let's come up with something here. Let's say I was backbiting about Brother Andy. And the Lord convict me about that. I do not bow and confess by making excuses as to why I did it. Now, Lord, I I I I know it's not right, but here's why I did it. That handy boy, he's a low down rascal, and he he you know how I uh somebody needs to tell him that every once in a while, right? Amen Uh that's untrue, but I love you, Andy. I'm just illustrating my message and you're close. That's probably why nobody says too close But listen, if the Holy Ghost says, now son, that's wrong, you know what I've got to say, Lord, you're right. There's absolutely no reason that for me to do what I did It's wrong. It violated the word. If I confess my sin, I'm taking sides with God against myself. By the way, that takes grace. That takes the grace of God working in your heart to be able to decide against yourself over sin. And when you and I do this, by the way, confession must be frequent and faithful. If you're in the habit of confessing your sins about once a month, you're spending probably 99% of your time out of fellowship with God. Faithful and frequent. If we confess our you say, when's the best time to confess sin when it's committed? When the Holy Spirit knocks on your heart and says, Hey, that's wrong. When the Holy Ghost gives you that spiritual Oh, you know what that means, don't you? You had ch is those of you that had children, if they started doing something, you went You know, I don't know what the proper word for that is, but I know what it meant. When I heard my mother go, ah I froze in my tracks. Whether I knew or understood or what was going on, right? I still I I was somewhere and there was a I think it was in the store and there was a mother did that and I stopped dead. I stopped walking. I suck I thought, uh oh, what'd I just do? I mean I'm having PTSD from my raising. I'm thinking, my goodness, Lord sent mama back here, she's gonna whoop me or something. That mother went, ah, and that little kid just Big eyed and froze. The Holy Ghost will do that in your spirit. Yes, he will. It might be a word you speak, it might be an attitude you have, it might be something you do, and the Holy Ghost goes, Stop That correction, that's when we confess our sin. Now that's God's requirement. You say, Now listen, you've got to be particular with this thing. We don't come and say, Lord, if I've sinned, we say, Lord, this is how I've sinned Confession is not just saying in general, Lord, forgive me if I've sinned. Forgive me if there's some sin in my life. Confession is acknowledging, Lord, it's this and that and those and this and Lord I'm asking you to forgive me. For all of these things and we name them. That's what confession is. So that's the requirement. Now look at the reality. Now I love this. If we here's where the he is comes in If we, he is what? Faithful and just. What does faithful mean? It means he's unchanging. It means you can count on him. It means though you fail, he never fails. Can I say this about the Lord? He's not moody. He's not He's not uh He's not uh we'll forgive you today and won't tomorrow He's constant, he's faithful. He says, I am the Lord, I change not. There's no shadow eternity with him There's no vacillating back and forth. He's not for you today and against you tomorrow. If you're his, he's faithful. And he says if you'll confess your sin, he is faithful. Not only is he faithful, look at this, he's just. Boy, that's a big word, isn't it? If I can say it like this, he's right. And he's fair, and he's perfect. If we confess our sin, he is faithful and just. You say, why is he just? Well, verse 7 tells you why he's just. Because of the blood of Jesus Christ. You say, preacher, how is it that a saved person can sin against God and get forgiveness by confessing their sin? I'll tell you how, because Jesus Christ paid your sin debt in full. He made no partial payment. He did no partial down payment. He didn't pay for all the sins you committed before you got saved. He paid for all your sin, past, present, and future. Your sin was paid for in its entirety. The answer for your sin is the blood of Jesus Christ. And he is just in forgiving us because he put our sin on the person of his son and he paid for that debt in full so that when we come to God we can get a full and free pardon and God's just in doing that. He's not only just but he's the justifier. My what a savior. What a savior is Jesus Christ the Lord. The cross not only makes salvation possible, but it makes fellowship available. There's no other reason, there's no other way for you to stay in fellowship except by God's way. The character of God gives you stability in your walk with Him. It's who God is, not who you are. Sometimes we think my fellowship is based on my performance. Let me say this. Our fellowship is based on God's faithfulness. God's faithfulness is what makes fellowship possible. And he's made a way for my sin to be put away each and every time. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. When you come to him with your sin, you're coming to the atoning sacrifice of the blood of Jesus Christ. If those Old Testament saints could gain forgiveness by the offering of a sacrifice to God, and they did. When they sinned in the Old Testament, you had to bring a sacrifice. They had to bring a sacrifice, blood had to be shed, the animal offered, the blood presented. And that made it possible for your sin to be forgiven. So those Old Testament saints could stay in fellowship with God by keeping their sins covered with blood. And they had to make an effort. There had to be the bring. The nation had to be atoned for. Those priests offered up animals and the blood and made the presentation of the blood so that that that the the nation could be forgiven and sin could be answered for and they could be in fellowship with God It was a continual work of sacrifice, a continual shedding of blood, a continual effort made on their behalf, if you will, so that that fellowship could be maintained. But the Bible says there's one whose blood speaks of better things. There's one whose blood is not like the blood of a bull or a goat or a lamb. It's the precious, spotless blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And it is that blood that makes it possible for me to be forgiven and have fellowship with God. It's not a cheap thing to have fellowship with God. It's a costly thing, not on your part, but on his part. Christ paid the price in full. We notice not only the requirement of confession and the reality of God's character, but notice the restoration. Notice again what it says. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just. Look at this. To forgive us our sins. Forgive us. The sweet remedy for our sin is the forgiveness of God. If we had time tonight, we could look at that word forgiveness. It's a mighty big word. It means to pardon, to put away. It means to to to remove, if you will, uh from the from the very record, to take it off of the off of the accounting. It it means to write off the debt, to to remove it entirely. And when God forgives you, dear friend, here's what my Bible says, He forgets too. When God forgives your sin, He forgets it, puts it in the sea of forgetfulness, and it's behind his back, he never remembers it again. That's amazing to me. My little head can't hardly comprehend that. That God would forgive me like that, that he would He would put my sin, my wicked sin that broke fellowship with him, he would put that behind him. He would forgive me. He would pardon me. He would put away. By the way, If forgiveness is anything else, forgiveness is not holding it over our heads until we do it again. Forgiveness not using it against us down the road Forgiveness is both full and free in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's total forgiveness. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just. To forgive us our sins and then look at this and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. It's one thing to be pardoned, it's another thing to be cleansed. That means he removes the stain He takes it all away. He makes it possible. Remember again the disciples there as Jesus washed their feet. I believe that was the cleanest their feet had ever been. Now their culture meant you bathed in a public bath. And so you had to go somewhere outside of your home to get a bath. Sort of like when you go camping. Isn't it funny that we Americans are are such strange creatures that we uh we pay somebody to live like hobos in the woods somewhere, you know, and we call that vacation. We go camping. And you gotta make your way. I always hated that and we'd go camping. You'd have to walk, you know, to the bathhouse where they had the showers and stuff. And then when you walk back, I mean you get your feet dirty and everything else, they're like, you know, I I found a remedy for that. I just didn't go I just didn't bathe when we went camping, you know. Nobody else liked that, but it sort of suited me. It just saved my problem. But listen to me, dear friend, when when you and I live in this world, it's impossible to not get defiled by it. It's impossible for you to live without sin. I wish I could stand up here and preach tonight on how not to sin. And to tell you that you could live a perfect life and that you wouldn't have to worry about this thing of restoring fellowship. But I can't do that because that's not true. But I can tell you that there is a remedy when you do sin. The Bible says, if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father Jesus Christ the righteous. And we can have fellowship restored. When the Lord Jesus, those disciples, came back from that place of cleansing, they were clean, but their feet had got dirty because they walked the dusty streets of Jerusalem. But the Lord Jesus in his mercy stooped down on his knees and washed their defilement all away Just like he does every time you come to him with your sin and say, Lord, I've sinned against you. And I've sinned in this way, and I'm sorry. And I ask you to forgive me. If we confess our sin, he is faithful and just To forgive us our sins and to cleanse us. He washes it all away. There's not one stain left when he cleanses it. I want to remind you tonight that when we confess our sin, God cleanses us completely, which gives us the opportunity to have fellowship again with God. See, God's light, and there's no darkness in him at all. And if I'm going to fellowship with him, my my dirtiness has got to be clean. My darkness has to be removed. And God does that through the blood of Christ. When I confess my sin, He puts it all away. So no matter how I feel about it, or no matter what I think about it, what God says is what's important. And what God says is, is that he forgives me and cleanses me and says, now come, just like there's nothing between us. Now, when you lay hold of what the Bible says and start applying that in your spiritual life, it'll help you grow leaps and bounds. Because the reality is, you know what we do, we come and we still remember the sin. We come and we still remember the defilement. We come and we still remember the dirtiness, and we come and we've got all of that on us. And we're thinking, and you know what we do? We often think about it, and here's what we do. We'll confess it again and again and again. Can I say to you that when you confess your sin and get it right with God, it's gone It's under the blood, it's no longer there, and you can leave it there and go forward from that point on having fellowship with God. Thank the Lord He's made a provision. Thank the Lord that we can continually have fellowship. And by the way, dear friend, when you fail, you need to find forgiveness and renew fellowship. And I believe this is the key to a faithful Christian life. It's not living sinless, it's dealing with sin. It's not getting above sin and saying, well, I I'm just going to get to the point one of these days where I don't sin no more. Well, you ought to sin less, but you'll never be sinless. And yet God's made a way so I can have fellowship with him by confessing my sin. I love the story old Dr. Rice tells. Said when he had an opportunity he would be traveling and He would often just have a few moments between getting everything unloaded and put away in a hotel somewhere before he had to go preach. Instead he'd take out a little piece of toilet paper and he'd write down every sin God reminded him of. And he'd take that and pray over that little list and say, now, Lord, I did this and I'm sorry, or Lord, I didn't do that and I'm sorry. Would you forgive me? And when he got through with that list, he'd take it, he said, and throw it in the i in the toilet and flush it and it'd be gone forever. And he said it was a constant reminder every time that disappeared that the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. You ever heard Dr. Rice? I've heard him on recording. I never heard him in person. But the key to his usefulness was not his oratorical abilities. He didn't really have them. He didn't have a strong voice. He sort of had, you ever heard somebody's got a voice that's irritating? And and it kind of to me in that way, what I've heard, it's sort of that way. And he spoke real slow, and he was one of them fellows that you wanted to finish his sentence for him. You know, when I when when I heard him and maybe it was he was older when I heard this recording but but but he would make it and he would speak so long and so slow and and and look man I'm from the south and I speak slow but it wasn't that slow. This is turtle slow, snail slow. And you want to finish it? It wasn't that ability. It really wasn't a personality. You know what it was? I believe he just kept in fellowship with God. He just kept right with God. He just stayed close to God. He kept his sin confessed. He kept clean. He kept uh close. He kept forgiven. And can can I ask you something? When's the last time You really seriously tried to stay in fellowship with God and keep that sin confessed and keep your heart cleansed so that you could say there's nothing between my soul and my Savior. You know what the devil does, he lies to you and tells you there's no use in trying. He says, now look, you've done that and God don't want to hear it. I didn't want my Bible says. My Bible says if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You know what I need to do? I need to go back to my Bible and quit listening to the devil. I need to listen to what God says, not what I think. I need to take my Bible and put it into use in my life and say, now Lord, this is what you've said, and I'll tell you what I'll find, and I'll tell you what you will find. You will find fellowship with the Father And with his son Jesus Christ. Thank God you can stay in fellowship. You know we ought to every day try to be in fellowship with God. Tomorrow when you start your day, start it in fellowship. Throughout the day, stop, make sure you're in fellowship. Before you close your eyes at night, you ought to be in fellowship. Before when we come to church, you ought to be in fellowship. We ought to be in fellowship with the Lord. We don't want to have something keeping us from hearing the voice of God. We don't want our ears plugged with sin. We don't want our hearts cold and indifferent because of disobedience. If that be the case, then confess your sin to the Lord. You don't need to tell somebody else. You just need to tell the Lord. And when you come to him, he'll cleanse you and forgive you and restore that fellowship. I'm going to ask you a question tonight and we'll close in prayer. Are you in fellowship? I mean right now, this moment. Are you in fellowship with the Lord? Can you say tonight, preacher, I know there's nothing between me and my Savior. If not, can I say to you tonight, let's confess some sin? Let's just make sure we're in fellowship. There's fullness of joy where there's fellowship. When we walk with the Lord in the light of his word, what a glory he shines on our way. When we do his good will, he abides with us still, and with all who will trust and obey. Beloved, tonight I urge you, if you're not in fellowship, get in fellowship. Don't get used to living at a distance from God. That's called drifting. And when you drift, there's danger. We used to fish in a lake that provided water for a power plant. Um Lake Julian. They had big old catfish. I don't know if the warm water grew them big or what it was. They had big signs out there near the end where the power plant took water in. It said, beware. Now that that lake was so so it seemed so steel that you wouldn't think it you had any drift. But when that water began to go into that plant and cool all of that apparatus, there was a slight drift. And when you sat in a boat, if you sat in that boat and just let it go its way, before you know it, you'd be down there near the danger zone. There were a couple of men fishing, they got in some good fish, and they weren't paying attention. And they drifted, that boat kept drifting, drifting, and they weren't paying attention, and before you know it, they were in that place where that water was going in, this huge, huge pipe. I guess down in the bottom of that lake that was taking this water in. And before you know it, it sucked that boat and those two men into that and and ran them into that piece of property and killed them. destroyed that boat and listen you know what they learned they learned or they found out that there's danger in drifting. If you get to drifting on the Lord, man you're in danger. You're not in danger of losing your salvation, but you are in danger of losing your testimony. You are in danger of sinning against God, maybe in a very grievous way. And so many of the Bible characters teach us that there is just about there's nothing under the sun that a saved man is hardly not capable of if he drifts far enough from God. And so we gotta stay close. By the way, you do not stay in fellowship on accident. You know, you don't stay healthy or fit on accident, do you? Man, I wish this so. I wish you could eat ice cream and all the pie and cake you want and be fit as a fiddle. But you know what I'm finding out, especially the older you get, I think you gain weight from smelling that stuff. I can walk by and look at it and I feel about two pounds come up on my body. I mean it just seems like it jumps on you. And you've got to fight that thing. You've got to stay at it. And you don't just walk around and just accidentally be in fellowship. If that's your thinking, I'm going to say this, dear friend, and say it in love, you're not in fellowship with God. You're not right with the Lord. If you think it just happens automatically, that's just not so. That's a lie of the devil. It takes you confessing your sin. and getting clean from your sin and doing business with God about your sin to stay in fellowship with God. It's a constant thing. It's continually needed, and thank God the blood of Jesus is faithful and he forgives and washes all who will confess their sin. Now, friend, are you in fellowship? If not, let's get in fellowship. Would you stand with me please? Father, help us tonight