Why don't you take your Bibles, please, and go with me to 2 Thessalonians, chapter number 2. 2 Thessalonians chapter number 2. And let's read the entire chapter here this evening. Beginning now in verse number one, 2 Thessalonians chapter number 2. The Bible says, now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and by our gathering together unto Him. That you be not soon shaken in mind, or be troubled neither by spirit nor by word, nor by letter as from us, as that the day of Christ is at hand. Let no man deceive you by any means. For that day shall not come except there come a falling away first. And that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition, who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped. So that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. Remember ye not that when I was yet with you, I told you these things. And now you know what withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time. For the mystery of iniquity doth already work. Only he who now letteth will let until he be taken out of the way. And then shall that wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming. Even him whose coming is after the working of Satan, with all power and signs and lying wonders, and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish Because they received not the love of the truth that they might be saved. And for this cause God shall send them strong delusion that they should believe a lie. That they all might be damned, who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. But we are bound to give thanks always to God for you. Brethren, beloved of the Lord, because God hath from the beginning chosen you to salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth. Whereunto he called you by our gospel to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, brethren Stand fast and hold the traditions which ye have been taught, whether by word or our epistle Now, our Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and God, even our Father, which hath loved us and hath given us everlasting consolation and good hope through grace. Comfort your hearts and establish you in every good word and work. I want to hone in on or focus in on these verses 10 to 12. You'll notice he speaks here of a delusion. And he says very clearly that God shall send them strong delusion that they should believe a lie. The Lord helping me, I want to preach on this thought of strong delusion. Let's pray together. Father, as we bow in Jesus' name , Oh Lord, how we need you in this moment. Father, we realize that without you we can do nothing. And Lord, we just humbly pray that you'll help. Help us through your word. By your spirit, for your glory, to your honor. Lord, may your will be done. Oh Father, I pray that you might move among us. And Lord, do speak to us, strengthen thy people, be our teacher. And God will praise you for all that you do. Lord, I need you. I pray you'd hide me behind the cross. And help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus, and we'll give you the glory for all that you do, for our eyes are upon you, and we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Notice that text again, would you please, verse number eleven of Second Thessalonians chapter number two, and for this cause God shall send them strong delusion that they should believe a lie. Now we've got to understand what the word delusion means. The word delusion here, as it is used in this portion, means an error which shows itself in action. It's being deceived to the point that you act a certain way. And you need to understand that. It's what he's talking about, this delusion that is coming. And by the way, the emphasis here in this text is on the actions that follow a turning from the truth. Why do men and women become delusional? Why why do they they walk off into delusion? Well, because they turn away from the truth. And when you turn away from the truth, you've only got one other option, and that's darkness. That's the darkness of delusion. And delusion leads to defilement. Now, in the context, I believe we're looking at a tribulation event. I think it's very clear in the t as the Bible unfolds for us how the man of sin, the Antichrist, is being withheld. He's not being revealed. He will not be revealed until he who ledeth or hinders. until he's taken out of the way. Well you say, who's hindering that? Who's the one keeping the the Antichrist from being revealed? There's only one person. That's the blessed Holy Spirit of God. And the Holy Spirit of God is the one who lets. And my friend, when he leaves, guess who's leaving with him? God's people. And so what we see here is an event that will sweep the Christ-projecting masses into a Christless eternity. But do you realize that today this delusion, not this particular delusion, this strong delusion, but there is a delusion that is sweeping across the masses of people today There's a delusion that's being spread. It's far worse than a virus. It's far worse than anything you can imagine contracting. It's a delusion, a spiritual delusion I want you to notice what the Bible says here, beginning in verse number 10, as we look at the candidates for delusion. Who are the ones that will be caught up in this delusion? Verse number ten says, and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish, because they receive not the love of the truth That they might be saved. Let me say this, number one, they are those that are perishing in unrighteousness That's who is delusional or who's being swept away. Do you realize that he's saying here, these are those that their lusts have been excited by deceit? They've been deceived by their own sinful lust. And they're following those, and as they follow those, they're perishing in unrighteousness. Can I say to you that as you view the multitudes of people all around us, you're looking at a group of individuals who are perishing in unrighteousness? And and I want to say that we look at the multitudes perishing in unrighteousness not from an angle of up here down there. But we look at them with a broken heart, recognizing, but by the grace of God there go I. The only difference in those that are not perishing is the precious Savior and the grace of God in the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the only marked difference in any one of us. But they're deceived by their own sinful lust. We see not only are they perishing, these candidates for delusion, are perishing in their unrighteousness, but they are rejectors of the truth. Look at the verse again, please. It says, Because they received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved. They received not. In other words, they rejected the truth. They rejected the love of Christ. Can you imagine what a tragedy it is for a man or a woman A teenager, a young adult, a boy, a girl, whatever, or whoever it may be, to reject the love of God in the person of Jesus Christ. To reject the offer of salvation that's so freely and fully given and provided? You think about what's being said here These individuals who become delusional are individuals who have wholesaly rejected the Lord Jesus and the love that he demonstrated on Calvary. Can I say this? If you go to hell, you'll go to hell over the blood of Christ and the cross of Calvary. A way has been made. My dear friends, understand that there is a rejection of truth, there is a response in the heart that causes individuals to become candidates for delusion. They refuse the soul's only savior. And my friend, when light is rejected The only option is darkness. And it's a it's a it's a vast darkness. Would you go over to Romans chapter 1 with me? Let me read a few verses here. Again, Romans chapter number one. And I want you to look with me a beginning in verse number 18. Romans chapter 1, verse number 18, we're talking about these candidates for delusion. The Bible says that for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Who hold the truth in unrighteousness. Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them, for God hath showed it unto them. That's their conscience. For the invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even His eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Need to see that. They are without excuse. No man can can condemn God over his just decision. They're without excuse. Look at verse 21, because that, when they knew God, not in a saving way, but in a way of knowing that He is God. They knew God. They glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. There's delusion. Their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. What's happening here? It's the slippery slope of rejecting truth It's the produ it's the it's the the fruit or the produce, if you will, of what happens when a people say, We know there's a God, but we're not going to acknowledge him as God. So we're going to turn away from God and we're going to walk in our own darkness. And and they walk into that, and the Bible says their foolish heart was darkened. And watch this. In that ignorance, there's a declaration declaration of wisdom. They professing themselves to be wise. You know what they're saying? Aren't we smart? Look at how smart we are. You know, it it it always amazes me that people that believe the Bible are looked upon as being ignorant. Oh, you believe the Bible. Even among religious circles. If you believe in an inspired Bible, there are those that carry a Bible. That may say to you, uh, you know, you are are you so unlearned that you you think that God uh has preserved his word or that he's given you an authoritative word from heaven? Well, call it unlearned, call it what you want to, but I believe that God give gave us his word by inspiration. And we have an authoritative Bible. We have the word of God And so understand that professing themselves wise, notice what they have become, the Bible says they became fools. Now see it There's a there's a a degradation here. There's an unfolding, a progressing here of downward change. Verse 23, and change The glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man and to birds and four footed beasts and creeping things. And so what we see is the uprising of idolatry. When man dethrones God, he enthrones idols. When you remove God from being God, there's automatically going to be something fill the void. And it's going to be the creation of man and it's going to be so foolish. Jeremiah talked about the idols that were made in his day, and you go out in the woods and you cut a tree And you bring it in and you you you carve it out and make your little idol and you cook your dinner with it and you warm your body by it and then you bow down and pray to it. Isn't that foolish? But yet we make idols today, many make idols today, of things that have no power to save them. So we see here that man's progressing, of course, downwardly. In verse 24, wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lust of their own hearts, to dishonor their own bodies between themselves, immorality. Watch this, who changed the truth of God into lie and worshiped and served the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. When we deify humanity. We began to undignify our activities When we make man God, then man begins to to abuse himself. And let's go on and read for this cause God gave them up. The second time he said this, he gave them up unto vile affections, for even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature. And likewise also the men leaving the natural use of the woman burned in their lust one toward another, men with men working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompense of their error which was meet. And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind to do those things which are not convenient. By the way, that means against conscience and against nature and against scripture. Now, friend, I don't know about you, but do you watch the news lately and say, what in the world is going on? What in the world is happening to our society? How is it that we are offended by things that are natural and normal, and seemingly unoffended by things that are unnatural and unnormal? How is it that we become a people that that we we are attempting, it seems, to normalize sin and normalize ungodliness and and and make everybody think that it's just the way it is? That my friend, I don't care how many surgeries you have, or how much medication you take, or how many changes you attempt to make to your physical man You cannot rewrite what God wrote in your DNA and how God made you who He made you. If God made you a man, you're a man. Until God takes you home. And if God made you a woman, you're a woman until God takes you home. And you can mutilate and you can destroy and undignify the body that God has entrusted you with, but you will not change what God has already done. And I'm trying to say that this is all a delusion It's the evidence of a culture who has r rejected God and has turned their back and God's given them up to a reprobate mind, he's given them up to vile affections. And we're seeing the product of it all around us, and you you scratch your head and say, What's going on? Well, here's what's going on. Delusion. Delusion. The Bible goes on to say, verse 29, be infilled with all unrighteousness Fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness, full of envy, murder, debate, deceit, malignity Whisperers, backbiters, haters of God, despiteful, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things Man, that's a broad description there. Inventors of evil things. I mean, do you ever hear things and say, who thinks of these? Who comes up with this stuff? The inventors of evil things. The inventors of evil things. I understand there's a push now in the state of California. To legalize marriage between those that wish to marry their pet. And it's gaining traction It's gaining traction. And you know, we sit here on this side of the world and and really there's not much difference between the two anymore. But we sit here and we think, how could that be? I'll tell you how delusion. Delusion. Delusion is sweeping the land. Delusion is is clouding the minds. God's given them up. God's given them over. God is turning. Man has said no. God man has said no. I'll have it my way. Let me remind you of something. When Pharaoh hardened his heart, God led him to it. And his heart grew harder. And when man says no and turns into darkness, that darkness gets darker. And that that path goes steeply downhill. You'll notice the Bible says, without understanding, covenant breakers, without natural affection, implacable. You can't pacify them. Do you realize what we see happening on the streets, not just in this country? This isn't just a an American problem or a US problem. This is happening in large cities all around the world. These social justice warriors are implacable. I don't care what you give them, they're gonna burn it down, tear it down, and run it down. What is that? That's delusion. That's where delusion takes us. And watch this, unmerciful. Who knowing the judgment of God that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them. I'm saying these are the candidates for delusion. The individuals that reject the truth of God and walk in darkness and begin this slippery slope downhill. Morally and mentally and physically, it all ends in a slime pit of moral degradation And what's happening around the world today, not the strong delusion, that's a coming thing, but delusion is spreading wildly I want you to notice quickly becoming delusion. And can I just say this? It's bad English, but it's the plain truth. You ain't seen nothing yet. Not according to the Bible. The Bible tells me very clearly over here in Second Thessalonians chapter number two, and uh look with me in verse eleven. And for this cause, God shall send them strong delusion that they should believe the lie. What's the cause? Well, verse 10. Because of the deceiveness of unrighteousness, because they received not the love of the truth that they might be saved, God's going to send a strong delusion. There'll be a point where it'll be past the point of no return. That's where it's going. Do you see that? That's where it's going. You and I need to understand that God's given us these things in His Word. He's told us ahead of time so we'll know where we're headed. We'll know where we are going. We'll know what's up ahead. And you and I don't need to be sitting here tonight threatening and worried and wringing our hands and thinking, oh no, what's next? We know what's next. We understand what lies ahead. And yet what lies ahead is right in accordance with what the Bible teaches us. You'll notice here the calls and then see the judgment. It says God shall send. Well, you ought to highlight those words because it means that God's going to unleash delusion. That's a terrifying thing. It's a terrifying thing when God unleashes delusion. When God that does what we read in Romans chapter 1 gives them up to uncleanness. Gives them up to vile affections. God gaves gave them over to reprobate mine And you know what this strong delusion is? It's a culmination of all of that. It's the coming together of all of that. It's the crowning of all of that, the giving up and the giving over, and that strong delusion is going to sweep the multitudes. We see the lie that they'll be they'll believe. It says in verse 11 that they should believe a lie. What's the lie? The lie is this: that the devil is God. The man of sin is God. It says there, read it back up in verse three and four there, where uh it says, the the son of perdition who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that's called God of this worship. So that he as God sitteth in the temple of God showing himself that he is God. That's what's going to happen. That's the lie they'll believe. Then this is God. The true God's been rejected. The true God's been been uh been been cast off, and they said, We'll not believe him, nor will we bow to him. So they'll bow the knee, not at the God of heaven. But at the God of this world. And they'll acknowledge that He is God. Have you noticed the increasing fascination With the occult activity in our culture. It's not an accident. And don't don't come after service and say, well now, preacher, you know, we've always had uh you know, an interest in the occult and things like that. Yeah, but not on this level. Not to this degree. And and listen, it's more than an entertainment thing, it's old it's a way of life. It's a way of life. I've met several of these that are uh so-called ghost hunters. And man, I'll tell you, you follow their lives, you watch the their lives, their personal lives, and I know a couple personally. And have followed their lives and it is a life of torture from the devil in hell. their lives are are devastated because they are chasing after and often get so enthralled and in in in in compassed in this thing of of the devil and all that he's doing or darkness. And they may call it whatever they want to call it. But the reality is it's deceiving spirits. It's the devil himself. And folks, he's very real He's very real. And there are a lot of people in the world that believe more in the devil than some of God's little children who carry a Bible and go to church and know the truth. They know he's real. They know that he has the power to do things that bring devastation and destruction in people's lives. And so we see that they believe the lie. That coming delusion is going to sweep a whole multitude of people that they'll bow the knee to the God of this world. They'll bow the knee to the Antichrist and they'll worship him. Do you realize, does that not put in context where we're living? We're in a battle for souls. There are two brides being formed. There are two bodies being gathered. There are two buildings being built. The devil's building his bride, and Christ is building his. My friend, he's bringing together, he's gathering together his saints. I want you to see the calamity of delusion in verse twelve. It says very plainly that they all might be damned, who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. Notice the all there. It's all who reject truth. It's all who reject truth. There are no levels to damnation here. It's very clear. He that believeth not shall be damned. And that word simply means to judicially condemn or punish eternally. Now, friend, listen, you and I need to understand that choices have consequences. You and I cannot avoid those. Those cannot be sidestepped. You can't skirt around them. The reality is, is those that reject the truth will be damned. That's a reality. The church is a serious thing when we stop and think about what it is we're entrusted with. Do you realize, have you ever thought about it like this? The church is sort of like a red light or a warning station? We you the the the God's children, you and I are sort of like a crossroads in people's lives. And we're wanting, don't go that way. Don't go that way. There's danger ahead. I mean, listen, if you go that way, there's a head-on collision. They're working as you see out here on the road. And this past week and coming back and forth has been fun. Sometimes there's somebody standing there doing their job, and sometimes they're somewhere else. I don't know. But I came out the other morning and I was trying to tell the guy I'm going to the church. Just going to the church. Just that little, you know, I don't know how else to s somebody's got to teach me sign language on how to say, I'm going to the church And as I started up, you would have thought that I was headed off the off a cliff. I pulled out. I thought he understood. I thought he meant motioned for me to go this way. But he gets in front of the truck and he's just all but laying his body down and I'm thinking, I'm just going to the church. I see them up there, they're not going to get me. I'll get in there if you'll get out of my way. I'm just going to the church, but I thought you know he was serious about saving my life. I mean this guy had it he was real serious I thought, well, the next thing he's gonna do is take that flag and take my windshield out because he was I mean he was just he stop, you know. I'm like I'm just I got up there and I rolled the window down And he's breathing hard, and I said, I'm going to the church. Oh, wonderful. He got out of the way. I went by. I said, Well, at least you're looking out for me, sir. Thank you. But how serious are we about this truth? Folks, you and I, you and I are holding up the stop sign that keeps men and women out of hell. This, my friend, is the truth that keeps men from damnation. This is the message that they need to hear. Look, this isn't a game at the end of this thing or consequence at the end of this road is the destination, and that destination is either heaven or hell. And we see as these believe the lie of this coming damnation, they're going to bow the knee to the man of sin. Diluted in their minds, degradated in their lifestyles, morally abject. Their lives are going to bear those marks of hell itself as it as you see the working of Satan as he scars and mars and shames man You know why he's doing that? Because man's made in the image of God. And the devil hates God. And if he can mar your body, and if he can mar your mind, and if he can mar your morals Then he's making a mark at God. He's making a mark against God. Understand tonight that we're not talking about preferences and We're not talking about petty little opinions. We're talking about the reality that the devil's bent on destroying humanity. And he's bent on destroying you. You can get mad at me if you want to, but the reality is, my friend, God's given you a body that's a temple. It's the temple of the Holy Ghost if you're saved. It's where he lives and dwells. And my friend, you need to treat it like it is that, and recognize that body as a sacred thing. It's a special thing. It's something God's given you. God didn't give you that body for you to mark it up like you would graffiti a wall uh on a street corner somewhere. God didn't give you that body for you to defile it in unnatural ways through homosexuality and ungodliness of that nature. God didn't give you a body for that God didn't give you a body to defile it by disobeying him and having sex outside of marriage and doing things that God has has clearly told us are sin. God didn't give you your body, my friend, to take and abuse it and use it with drugs and alcohol and all sorts of substances that fry the very mental capacities that you have to function and live God gave you a body for him to indwell and be glorified in. God's given us a body that should be used for his glory. But see what the devil's doing? He's putting a delusion. He's sending a delusion. My body, my choice. You heard that lately? My body, my choice, still murder, according to the word of God. My body, it isn't my body. God gave me my body. My body's his body. It belongs to the Lord. Do you see what's happening? And you've got a whole mess of people. I read this week a young uh a young man was given medication to block certain hormones so that he could transform or be changed into a uh a a female without his parents' consent or even knowledge This was going on for several months. They noticed a change in his in his person, his voice, and so on, and they began to ask questions and found out he's getting medication to do this because he believes that he is supposed to be a young lady. And I'm saying to you that delusion has spread our children. And I think the the the sign of God's judgment is when our babies get swept up in the ungodliness that is corrupting our land. You let a grown man or woman make decisions, well, if you're ignorant enough to make decisions in that way, just make them. You'll have to s you know you'll have to live with the consequences. But now our children are being deluded Our children are being led down this primrose path, so to speak, of deception, and they're being destroyed Do you realize that no matter what they do outwardly or even internally that they can't change what God made them? And then the frustration that follows that is why that the greatest number of suicides among any group of people is among the transitioning transgender. And here's why. Because their minds are just Torn, their bodies are torn. They know they're one thing and kind to be something else, and it's the devil's lie. Now, friend, my listen to me. The devil don't care how he destroys us so wrong as he does. We can sit here and say it'll never happen to me nor mine, but you better pay attention. The devil's walking about like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. And he wants to touch the hearts and homes of anybody, but I think especially God's people. If he can if he can if he can destroy in some way or touch some way God's people My friend, listen, that's why mom and daddies, you need to know how to pray. And pray ahead around your children. You you need to learn how to do battle for them grandchildren. And on your knees before Almighty God, fight hell off of them. Because hell's after them. And you need to be a man or woman who walks close enough to God That you can get your prayers answered and get the ear of heaven, because I'm telling you, my friend, there is a battle raging and delusion is spreading. The calamity of delusion. You'll notice the emphasis again in the text is they believe not the truth, who believe not the truth. You know truth is not to be played with. Truth is not to be played with. I know in the past, perhaps, I don't know, God does, he'll judge. But a lot of times truth is not taken as it ought. And sometimes man wants to insert his truth. I'm telling you, my friend, the only truth that there is is the Word of God. And truth is not to be played with. They believe not the truth. When you do not believe the truth, that's why the whole Bible is so important. You say, but Pastor, I'm a theistic evolutionist. You're deluded. You're deluded, and I say that as kind as I know how to say it. You're trying to blend two ideas that are from two different places, sources. You're trying to take the hand of the enemy and the hand of God and wed them together, and you can't do that. You can't do that Yeah, but I don't understand how I don't understand how it all fits together either. But if God declared it, I've got to bow the knee to it and submit and say, Lord, you know. You know. That's not that's not fostering ignorance. I hope that's building faith. Faith is simply believing what God says is so. Taking God at His Word. That's what faith is. It's by faith we understand that the worlds were framed. That's what Hebrews 11 says. We understand by faith that the worlds were framed. How? By the word of God. God framed it. God put it all together. God spoke. And and God set it all in order as he as he instructed or taught us very clearly in those first chapters of the book of Genesis. And what I'm trying to say is if we're not careful, we'll begin to bow to the delusion and give in simply because we think that sounds very intelligent. I'm going to tell you something, friend. There is such a thing as ignorant intelligence. Mark it down, there is. Professing themselves to be wise, they become fools. And we have a whole multitude of individuals leading most of our major uh organizations in our society today that are just that, professing themselves to be wise, they become fools And so we're living under an ideology that is anti-scripture, that goes against the word of God, and may God's little children understand It's not for us to trim and fit to make the Bible uh compatible. It's ours to stay true, to thus saith the Lord, and lift up our voice like a trumpet and sound the truth. This is what the Bible says Even in this culture. Now you and I are gonna live in a in a difficult day. We are. But they believed not the truth. And then notice the explanation. He says very clearly here, they had pleasure in unrighteousness. That's back Romans chapter 1, verse 32. This is a level of delusion that invites judgment, taking pleasure in unrighteousness. Taking pleasure in what's against nature. Taking pleasure in what God's word clearly condemns. Now, I want to leave you with this because There is a cure for delusion. There's a cure. And I find it interesting that in this chapter that Paul didn't stop with verse 12. But he moved on to verse 13. And he says, but but we are bound to give thanks all the way to God for you. Brethren, beloved of the Lord, because God has from the beginning chosen you to salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth You say, preacher, what's the cure for delusion? The reception of truth? The reception of truth? The truth he declares here in the person of Jesus Christ. Notice again that belief of the truth. My friend, listen, although those that believe not are damned, those that believe are saved. And God in mercy can save, listen to me now, even the delusional by his grace. He has that power. He has that power. Don't tell me the gospel doesn't work in certain places or cases. Because the gospel is the power of God and the salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first and to the Greek. And God can save anybody, anywhere, anytime that He so chooses. And my friend, He has the power to save at the uttermost. The same pit he dug you out of, he can dig the rest of that crowd out of. That's the cure. That's the cure for this delusion. It's a reception of the truth. And can I say this, we need not soft-sell it or peddle it because, my friend, listen, what men need is the truth. They need to be told the truth. It's only the truth that will save and change a life. And my friend, today I believe there's a cure for delusion, not only the cure of the reception of truth, but the reality of the gospel. He says in verse 14, whereunto he calls you by our gospel to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. Oh the gospel call. That that gospel call that rings out. That's the cure. That's the cure. My friend, listen, I had someone tell me, they said you preach the gospel too much. I said, well, I I don't want to say guilty. I I think it's a compliment, to qu to be quite honest with you. And uh and they said you you just you it We need more than the gospel. Well I understand, I guess to some degree, but the reality is the greatest need. And it beats in my heart every time I stand. The greatest need is that somebody maybe steps from hell They may be near mere breasts from hell, heartbeats from hell, and they're not saved, and who's going to tell them? Who's going to tell them My friend, listen. You can get Dave Ramsey to show you how to make a biblical budget. My job is to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. You can take time and study other books and learn things, but there's an urgency here, a need here, the reality of the gospel. What's the cure for delusion? Our world 's plunging into darkness. Somebody needs to light up a torch and shine it like never before, because men and women the only hope is the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's the only hope. I'm not going to waste my time. I'm not going to waste my time arguing over politics from this precious place. I'm not going to waste my time doing that. I don't believe the answer is going to be found in any state house or federal house. I believe the answer here in God's house. It's found in the gospel of Jesus Christ. The reality of men and women coming to the Lord Jesus. My friend, listen, you you think about the the the the forming and and and the functioning of our country. And what has saved this nation from peril again and again has been the gospel. It's been the gospel. Whether it was pre-Civil War days, when by the way, great revivals swept both North and South, and early during those days Men men by the hundreds were saved in these camps as they stood, and many of them would die mere hours after hearing the good news of Jesus Christ. And there were men thundering forth the gospel. Back in before the revolution and and before the revolutionary war, there would be gospel preachers flood the land and preaching and men would be saved and women would be saved and their lives would be changed just on the verge of being lost Just on the verge of stepping into eternity. How is it that the devil's got the church so caught up that all she's interested in is is becoming a social uh butterfly in this cultural garden of life and she's entertaining the people with their little play purties and passing the time when she oughta be shouting out and sending forth a lifeline and saying, repent or perish. There's a Savior who loved you and died for you. There's a cross that was born. There was blood that was shed. There's salvation that was obtained. There's a redeemer in heaven. And his name is the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh church, the reality of the gospel is this. It's the cure. It's the cure for delusion. It needs to be heralded. It needs to be preached. Don't let the devil back you in a corner. Don't let the devil back you in a corner. In a land such as ours, God help us to be bold. In a day such as this, God help us to be stirred in the depths of our heart, to realize that the gospel is the answer. And I know it's not a favorable thing. I know it's not a thing that's fashionable. I know that it's something that our culture is diametrically opposed because it says there's only one way to heaven. It's viewed as being narrow and bigoted, but yet it's the Bible. It's the precious Bible. And my friend, people need to be saved, and the only way to be saved is through the Lord Jesus. And it may be that the only sane truth, the only sane thing that those people you work with may hear will come out of your mouth if you share the gospel. That may be true. That may be true. I marvel. I I don't know, but I'm sure you do. You sit and you listen to the news or you watch and you think how can people be Be so intelligent in so many ways, and yet be so blind. Delusion. Delusion And then I want to say this. There's one more cure for this thing of delusion: not only the reception of truth and the reality of the gospel, but steadfast brethren. Look what he says in verse 15. Therefore, brethren, stand fast. Stand fast. These Thessalonians were in enemy territory. Paul was only there about six weeks, Max, and he was chased out. They were such an evil and vile place that that that to save his life he had to leave. But God left these people, these believers. And you know what he said? Paul said to him? Stand fast. Don't move. Don't budge. Hold your ground. Don't give in. Don't don't don't surrender your Bible. Don't surrender the truth. Folks, you're under pressure. I'm going to tell you something. You may realize it, you may not, but you're under pressure to give in. You're under pressure to give over. You're under pressure to dilute it. You're under pressure to just tone it down a little. You're under pressure. You're pressured outside, inside, every way. Pressured. Just just just Calm down a little bit. Don't be so adamant about the truth. You're under pressure. The Bible says stand fast. Stand fast. Don't give in. Don't give in. Can I say to you, listen, brother, sister, don't let the culture corrupt you. Don't let your culture corrupt you. It will unless you deliberately reject. You better watch it. You know who I worry about? I worry about my kids. I worry about our kids, your kids. I worry about the grandchildren. You know why the devil wants to corrupt them? He wants to corrupt them. You know we used to think them old preachers were hard and mean when they preached on things like men cutting their hair and women dressing like women? You know what I believe they could they could see things coming. They could see things coming. I believe those old preachers could see that we're quickly becoming culture. Listen, I don't want somebody to look at me and wonder what I am. That's diabolical, by the way. That's diabolical. That's why a man ought to cut his hair so that when you walk by, somebody don't say, Well that oh nope, that ain't a woman. Amen. I'm talking about being steadfast brethren. Steadfast brethren. And why in the world would a woman want to look like an ugly old man? I it's beyond the world. I don't understand that. There ought to be a there ought to be such a definition. I don't want to be mistaken as to whom I belong to. Call it what you will, but I believe it's safe to fly your colors and to stand fast. Stand fast, brethren. Be steadfast. Hold the traditions which have been taught, whether by word or our epistle. It's almost like he's telling these believers, hold your position, fellas. Don't give in. Don't let the enemy push you back. Hold your traditions. And verse 16, now our Lord Jesus Christ Himself. And you think, well, preacher, how am I going to do that? Sometimes I'm the only one. And by the way, you may be. You may be on that job. You may be in that situation. The only one. How in the world am I going to do it? I'm in a situation, you say, where uh th there are not other people believe like me. And and and what do I do? Know this, the Lord Jesus himself The Lord Jesus Christ Himself, God even our Father, which hath loved us and hath given us everlasting consolation and good hope through grace. He's given you something. Can I just put it in this plain language? He's given you fuel in your tank. He's given you strength for your journey. He's given you everlasting consolation and good hope through grace to go on and be faithful, and if you'll stand, he'll help you stand. May comfort your hearts and establish you in every good work and work. Oh, may God light his people afire to be steadfast brethren. To continue to hold high the bloodstained banner of the Lord Jesus Christ. Live a holy, pure life before a corrupt and dying world. And be a people that are busy about these good works, that they may see our good works and glorify our Father which is in heaven. You know we often dismiss this, and we should not. It's vital. It is not the preaching of the gospel when we do good works, but I believe it's the preparation for the gospel. Brother Bittner said, Well, it's hard to preach to 200 homeless men when they're sitting there hungry. Their bellies are growling. He said, You put a little food in their belly, and their ears open a little bit wider. I'm saying there's some good works that we can be involved in that make a way for the gospel to go forth. Never substitute the gospel, never take the place of the gospel. You can be kind to a person, you can be good to a person, you can clothe them and you can feed them, and yet if you never tell them, they'll still die lost. But you and I can take those things and labor together and wed them together and use them to point men and women to Jesus Christ. Every good word and work. You know there's only two options. And this thing's quickly coming this way. There's only two options, believe the truth or be deceived by a lie. Believe the truth or be deceived by a lie. That's the only option. There's nothing else. And my friend, I would say to you today: if you're not saved, you need to be. Hell's real, eternity's forever, and your soul is so precious that God sent forth his son from heaven, nailed him to an old rugged tree. For my sin and yours. What kind of love is that? That's godlike love. He put him in a grave and for three days and nights he lay there. And then he arose. And he lives. And he saves. He satisfies. Thank God. Turn to the Lord Jesus while you can. My friend, if you're if you're saved, hold fast. It may be you've given up ground. Get it back. Get it back. At all cost. That old Jason, you could help me. I can't remember his name. He's a very famous Marine. Is that Polman or I read a quote of his the other day, when they were surrounded and outnumbered. He said, Well that makes our options easy. In other words, you said now I know where the enemy is and how to hit him. He's on every side. We need that spirit back in the church. There are some songs we sing that I think perhaps we lose the meaning of them. Hold the fort, I'm coming. I think the problem is we've gone in the fort and we've run up the windows and we've shut the doors and we're hiding and hoping Jesus comes. It's sitting time to dig foxholes. This is time to be on watch, alert. By the way, Jesus still says, I'll build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. I'll tell you what, the the Lord's still doing his work. And he'll do his work right to the very end. And I want to be a part of that. I don't want to be sitting on the sidelines and look, the pressure's great. The pressure is great to take an observ uh a seat of observation and just watch everybody else fight. I had a fellow tell me, he said, when you get older, be careful of that, because you'll be tempted. You'll be tempted more. I thought as a young man, that's foolish. And that this zeal always be this fire all you know then you get a little older and you think, oh you know, when my son says that I'll carry that for you. I used to argue with him, I don't anymore. Sometimes I say, Hey buddy, carry this. You got more muscle than I have now. Make use of 'em. But I'll tell you here's one fight that I don't want to put someone else in my place. Hold fast. Brethren, be steadfast. That's a cure for delusion. Steadfast, brethren. May the Lord help us to be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. Here's the good news, your labor's not in vain. Thank God there's coming a day when he'll honor that faithfulness. May we be faithful to him. Stand with me, please.