I want you to take your Bible, please, and go to Mark chapter number 10. Mark chapter number 10. And I'd like to read beginning in verse number 13 down to verse number 16. Mark chapter number 1 And we'll read verse number thirteen to sixteen, and I'll invite you to stand when you find your place. We'll read God's word. In Mark chapter number ten and verse number thirteen, the Bible says this. And they brought young children to him, that he should touch them. And his disciples rebuked those that brought them. But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein. And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them. You know, when you read this account of what Jesus did with the little children, you can't imagine anybody else doing that like he did in your Bible. I can 't imagine Moses taking up the little children in his arms and blessing them. I can't imagine the mighty prophet Elijah taking them up in his arms and blessing them. But I can clearly see the Lord Jesus in all of his majesty and mercy reaching down and picking up those little children. And putting them in his arms and laying his hands on them and blessing them. The Lord helping me tonight, I want to speak on this thought. Suffer the little children. Suffer the little children. Father, again we bow our heads and we ask, O Lord, for thy help. As we come to thy word, Lord, we realize it is spiritually discerned. We cast ourselves at your feet and pray, Lord, you'll be our teacher tonight. Would you open the eyes of our understanding just as we've opened our Bibles here tonight? Would you open our hearts to receive what it is you have for us? But Lord, what we need tonight has got to come from heaven. And Father, we pray for that. We ask, Lord, that you would stir and speak. And Lord, we'll give you the glory for what you do, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. Now, if you want to study this out a little more, you can look in two different gospel records of this same event. And I believe Mark, which is rather unusual for Mark, because Mark's gospel is a very straightforward, a very few words kind of portrayal. When Mark describes something, he gets right to the point. He doesn't include a lot of detail, rarely does he include a lot of detail. He just tells you the who, what, when, where, and how, and gets his point across. But this is one of those rare occasions where Mark does the opposite of what the other writers of the Gospels did. Matthew's account is somewhat lacking detail, Matthew 19, verses 13 to 15. In fact, when I read Matthew's account, it was much in the order of what Mark normally would write. And Dr. Luke, who was known for his his ongoing details of all things that he described, his account Likewise is somewhat lacking in details. But yet Mark picks this story up, this account, and he gives us the most vivid and detailed account Again, Matthew 19, 13-15 is where you'll find Matthew's record. Luke 18, verses 15 to 17 is where you will find Luke's record. Now, Mark here gives us something to see and to consider here, especially in light of where we are in the life of our church. I want you to see the heart of Christ for children. Here the Lord Jesus is ministering, and in fact, if you read the other accounts, Matthew and Luke, you'll find out that he's right in the middle of a busy, busy day of ministry. He's dealing with his disciples. He's reaching and touching and healing the sick. He's working with multitudes of multitudes. It seems that People are pressing him on every side. And on top of all of that, here comes people with the armload of children, and they want Jesus to bless them. And our Lord does something that again, as I said in the beginning, that I can only imagine him doing And that is taking the time to stoop down, pick these little children up, put them in his arms, lay his hands on them, and confer a blessing on these little ones. Let me say that this text has been misconstrued to support infant baptism. As you study the Word of God, you'll find out, and you study church history and church teaching, you'll find out that many would, I remember reading recently actually a sermon that Mr. Spurgeon preached on believers' baptism, and he said the Anglican uh group got so angry at him that he preached from this text and And and that they use this text to say that, see, the Lord blessed them. It's the same as baptism. Well, I want to say something. If if it's the same as baptism, God would have told us so. The Bible would have said that he took them up in his arms and he baptized them. But that's not what the Bible says. The Bible says he took them up in his arms and he blessed them. And church, there's a big difference in blessing and baptism. And so we see here the Lord Jesus doing uh this this this deed of grace and mercy in the lives of these little children. There's no suggestion that these children were saved in infancy, that there was somehow or another a conferring of grace upon them. It was simply the workings of the master and their little young hearts and his heart of compassion being demonstrated to these children. I want you to note several things about this account. Number one, I want you to see the bringing of the children. Look what it says in verse 13. And they brought young children to him that he should touch them. Now, I believe it is Luke's gospel that says they brought infants. And I believe the word that is used here covers a wide range of younger children. that were brought to the Lord Jesus, anything from a babe in arms to a toddling, walking child that could come along. And they brought these children to the Lord Jesus. I believe it can be assumed that there were parents there who brought their children to Jesus. I believe the most likely characters that brought these little children were their parents. And I want to say this, that we I I believe that the ch that parents are always the best people to bring their children to the Lord Jesus Christ. Mothers and dads, it's our responsibility to be the spiritual leaders and influences in the lives of our children. I've pastored enough years now to have heard many things. I'm not not going to say I've heard it all, because as sure as I do, I'll hear something again. Hear something for the first time I've never heard before. But I've heard enough to find out that often we like to lay blame where blame cannot be put. And we say things like this: well, if that church did a better job, my children would have turned out better. But may I say to you that the greatest influence in the lives of your children is you, mother and dad It's your responsibility to bring them to the Lord Jesus. And parents are always the best people to bring their children to Jesus. But I don't believe that it was exclusively parents because perhaps there's a large number here and that seems to be the indication there was a large number of children. being brought. And so no doubt there were other persons who were involved bringing these children. And can I remind you that children are dependent on others? Children need other people. I tell my ch my I can't call them children, I've been corrected on this But I I tell my young adults that uh that don't even sound right. I tell my kids I tell my kids when they begin to pick on me about needing help with technology that I remember when they couldn't use a spoon. And I had to teach them how to use a spoon. You just don't take a child and throw it out, set it down on the table and say, hey, help yourself. You gotta teach them, don't you? You've got to help them and bring them along. Why? Because they're dependent on you. And may I say to you, my friend, just because they're not your children, doesn't mean you and I don't have an obligation to try to reach them with the gospel of Jesus Christ. God can use other persons. God can use you a neighbor. God can use you an uncle. God can use you an aunt God can use you, a Sunday school teacher, a junior church, a vacation Bible school worker. God can use you, an individual that just has a burden in heart for children. God can use you to bring them to the Lord Jesus. And oh, what a joy it is to do that. But notice their purpose in this. As we consider bringing the children, the bringing of the children, they brought young children to him that he should touch them. What was their purpose? To get the hands of Jesus. On these little children. He wanted that they wanted them to be touched. And I don't doubt that these children, it was the desire of their parents and others that these children be saved. That these children be kept and that the hand of the Lord be on them, that they might be used in a special way. That was the desire, that was the purpose of these individuals. And someone said there's no more nobler work than to bring children to Jesus Christ. An evangelist of yesteryear said at a particular meeting he had two and a half people saved. And they said, Two and a half people. What do you mean? And then some clever individual said, Oh, you mean two adults and one child? He said, No, quite the contrary, two children and one adult. They said, why did you register at two and a half? He said, because that adult had wasted half of his life living for the devil, and those children have their whole life ahead of them. And they're really the whole ones that can get live their whole life for Jesus Christ. Friends, listen, the best time to reach anybody is as a child. Children need to be brought to the Lord Jesus. I dare say, how many of you were saved as a child? Would you lift your hand? That's a fair number. How many of you were saved, say, from the age of twenty-five and under? Would you raise your hand? I know it's not child, but see that's the majority. That's the majority. We're saved under the age of twenty-five. You know what happens to you as time goes on? Your heart gets hard. And life has a way of putting up barriers in a man's life or in a person's heart. And it's very rare. It's not It's not impossible, but it's very unusual for an older person to come to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now God can save anybody, anywhere, anytime. That's the power of the gospel, and that's the promise of salvation. But I got news for you, friend. It's a whole lot better if you get in early than get in late. How many of you know for a fact that you're being saved young in life has kept you out of a lot of trouble? It's made a difference in your life, hasn't it? If you hadn't got saved as a young person, if you hadn't got reached at a young age, there's no telling where you would be. There's no telling what scars and baggage and damage that you would have to deal with. I'm glad the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin, but there are scars that we bear and will carry simply because sin makes its way in our lives. How much better to reach them when they're young. And may I say to you that we're seeing an alarming increase of disinterest among young parents in spiritual things. And there's a multitude of other things that capture their affection and attention. There are parents that will travel miles. To get their children to a ballgame that won't travel minutes to get their children to the house of God. And that's not going to turn out well. Oh, I know little Johnny's got a a great skill, but the chances of him being a professional athlete are might near Neil. And even if it is , can I ask you a question? Is it worth his soul? Is it worth his soul? And I know in a sense I'm I'm preaching to the choir tonight, but the reality is this, friend. If the parents don't reach them, somebody's gotta try. Somebody's got to try. Somebody's got to say, Lord, help me to bring somebody to Christ. Help me to bring these children to you. And there's no more noble, or I said this earlier, but there's no more nobler work than to work to bring children to the Lord Jesus You think about the multitude of sins that are being prevented and the magnitude of usefulness that's being created simply by reaching a child You know I I think about Kimball when he reached Moody, one of his Sunday school boys, he had no clue. He had no clue what God was going to do. Moody had no clue what God was going to do. And you and I don't know what God's going to do. God may take that little student that you that that you see perhaps in Bible school or in in Sunday school or junior church, and maybe they're backward and shy and you think God will never do nothing with them. And the day will come that you'll see, oh what great things the Lord hath done, because God delights in taking those little things that are nothing, and doing great and mighty things with them that astound all. So we see the bringing of the children, but quickly I want you to notice the barrier to the children. Now, when I read this, I can I'll be honest, I don't quite understand. How these could be the barrier. I understand the demons saying, Don't let them kids get to Jesus. I understand the demons hatching plans to keep children from being saved, because that's what they do, that's the work of darkness. I can understand the devil getting in the way and say, keep them kids away. By the way, that's why our children are targeted by the enemy in the culture we live in today. They're not having drag queen story time down at the nursing home. They're having it at the library and the schoolhouse. That's who the devil's wanting. That's who he's trying to destroy. That's who the devil's after. And you and I need to remember that. These children are precious. Someone said, How precious must a soul be if God and the devil both are after it? And that's true. God and the devil both are after it. So we need to see here this barrier. It wasn't the devil and it wasn't the demons, but notice the persons, it was the the problem, rather, it was his disciples. Doesn't that shock you? His disciples rebuked those that brought them. The followers of the Lord Jesus. I see something pitiful in this text. Not only is the problem his disciples, but here's something very pitiful. The Bible says they rebuked them. That's a stern word. It means they got up in their face and said, Stay away. It means that they corrected them and said, You're doing something wrong. It means that they were upset and they were bothered by the fact that these people were trying to bring these children to the Lord Jesus Christ. And I see something very plain here that these disciples had a wrong view of children. They just simply had a wrong view of children. Children are not a necessary nuisance. The Bible says they're the heritage of the Lord. And when you stop and think about how God views children, can I remind you of something? Jesus had already taught these disciples. Look over in Mark 9:42. He had already been talking to them about this, and he said to them, Whosoever shall offend one of these little ones that believe in me. Notice what he said? It's better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck and he were cast in the sea. That's pretty stern language, isn't it? But that's what he said. And I believe he meant that. He said, rather than be a barrier, you ought to be buried in the sea than to be a barrier for one of these little ones. And can I remind you this evening that many times we view children the wrong way as his disciples? Oh, I know children. Children have a way about bringing chaos into their company. Is that not true? Children have a way of upsetting our norm. You remember when your children were born? You remember the sleepless nights? I mean, schedules mean nothing to those little things. Sleep is a rare thing oftentimes. But the reality is that not only do they bring all of those things with them, they also bring the gift of life. There's life. As the Bible says in the Proverb, we're going to get there one of these days where no oxen are of the crib is clean. And if there's going to be life and there's going to be productivity Then there's got to be some burdens and some bother that goes along with the blessings that come our way And so we see here very clearly that these were barriers. These disciples were the barriers. They were keeping the little children from coming to the Lord Jesus. The first church I pastored, my wife and I uh started a bus route. We had a little old van, a little GMC van. And uh we cleaned that thing up. It sat in the back, got full of bees and snakes and all sorts of things. And on Saturday, which was our only day off, I was going to school at night and working in the day. And on Saturday, we would go into these parks that were near that church, and there were hundreds of children around there, and we'd visit and invite the children and then pick them up on Sunday morning and bring them to church. And you know, it was interesting as I look back what uh what a difference those little children brought into that church. And it wasn't always good. Sometimes it was rather disruptive. I look back now and know it was preparation. I preached many a time, holding one here and dragging one down here. And just trying to keep somewhat normal, see, for as the but you know what, I'd rather have that than those children not in the house of God. I'd rather have the chaos and sometimes the confusion. And oh my friend, the times the times those children, the conflict and all that they would sometimes bring with them. had a very staunch opposer in the church that said, these kids offer nothing to this church. We're wasting our time. What are we doing? We're not doing them they're not doing us any good, he would say. He'd get up in a business meeting And and we might say, well, we had to put tires on the bus or or or the van, we had to fix the engine or do something like that. And he would say, That that's good money that we're wasted, and he would go on and on and on and And I prayed, oh God, please speak to his heart. And others prayed too that he might get a different view about this. And I remember in a business meeting he got up, and everybody around said, Well, here he goes again. But God had got a hold of him about it. And he said, You know, I've been thinking about this thing with these children. And he said, It's not that that they are here to do us good, it's that we're here to do them good. I said, brother, you're getting it now. Because the reality the reality is that's what we're here for. You and I don't know if we reach one of these little children, you don't know what a world of hurt might be prevented down the road. You don't know what blessing might come, not just to them, but their family, but maybe even to this assembly. There's a brother down here, brother Tyson. Where's he at, Brother Zach? He's in Maryland, I know in Bowie, Maryland, and that brother was a bus kid in his church. Is that correct? He was a bus kid in his church. And they brought that little fellow to church. And they encouraged him and watched him grow up, and now he's the pastor of the church that the bus used to pick up to bring to their to their assembly. You talk about reaping something you've sown, that's a blessing from God You don't know that you're ministering to your next pastor or whoever it may be. You don't know what God's going to do with them little children. Oh, may God help us not to be a barrier. Oh, these disciples just they missed it. They were a barrier. But then I want you to notice quickly the bother of the Savior. And it's He's not bothered by these children, by the way. In verse 14, the Bible says, But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come to me, and forbid them not, for such is the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto you, whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein. Won't you notice the pain it caused him? Because that's what that word displeased means. It pained his heart. It pained his heart. It pained him inside. It upset him. It upset him. Don't tell me Jesus just kind of rolled over and played dead. Sometimes he got mad. And he got so mad on one occasion that he he drove a bunch out with the with the cat -nine tails and he kicked their tables over and run them out of the temple and said, This isn't a house of merchandise, it's a house of prayer He got mad. And I believe he got mad here. He got mad at these disciples. He was much, I like the Bible's language, much displeased. But we see a proclamation that he makes, and he gives this proclamation in verse 14, and he says, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for such is the kingdom of God. Here is a great invitation. Children come. I'm going to be honest with you. I'm glad as an eight-year-old boy there was a Savior inviting me to him. There's an invitation here, but there's some instigation here. He's stirring them up, saying, bring these little children. You fellas stop being barriers and start being bringers. You stop putting up roadblocks and you start getting them to me. You stop saying, hey, stay away, little children, and you start being an instrument that picks them up and brings them to my side. Then I see an inclusion here. The Lord's saying, I've got room for these little ones. Amid the hustle and bustle of the ministry of the Lord Jesus, he had room for children. He had time for them. He had time to stop minister to them. He's not healing the sick here. He's not raising the dead. He's not opening blind eyes. Can I say it like this? He's not doing headline miracles. He's just picking up little children. And he's putting his hands on them and he's blessing them. He doesn't it doesn't matter to him that some of them are drooling like little old dogs, you know. Get around a little child, you're gonna get something on you. You have to get over being squeamish if you hold them long. But you know what? He picked them up. And he's he's saying, fellas, bring these kids. You get involved in this. And I want to say to all of us here tonight that may God stir in us a new desire to be involved in this thing of bringing children to the Lord Jesus. In whatever capacity we can. I mentioned in the morning service, hey, if you've got children that you want to get to Bible school, you bring them. Put them in your car and bring them. Get permission from their parents and bring them. Get them here in this place. Bring them to Sunday school. Bring them to the house of God on Sunday. I believe it's Brother Ganjamella that used to say, never go to church alone. Never go to church alone. And boy, that's been stirring me lately. Don't go to church alone. Try to bring somebody with you. Try to bring somebody to the house of God and especially say, Lord, help me to have some children and get some children that we can bring them in. Bring them to the house of God. And then I see here not only the pain and the proclamation, but I see a picture because in verse number 15, Jesus said, Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein. And here's what Jesus did. He went, he took those children who were being outcasts, and he elevated them to an example. And he said, if you really want to get to me, come like them. Come like them. You know how do they come? I'll tell you how they come. They come in utter dependence. They come and utter depend you ever you ever had a little child walk up to you and say Th there was a there was a little fella i in our church up north and and I I bet I carried him a thousand miles preaching. 'Cause he would get away from his parents And rather than just shut the whole service down because it happened so much, I just picked him up because he would stand there and pull my britches until I until I p reached down and just I picked him up and I carried him. Thank God he was a little thing. And uh I just would carry him around. And you know what? He'd just sit back and he would pull my ear and hang there with me and and uh he learned not to touch my microphone. He wouldn't touch my my wireless. But but you know what? He he was just utterly dependent He didn't act like he was afraid I would drop him. He didn't seem quite concerned that I wasn't able to pick him up. When he got to meet, he wanted me to pick him up. He said, somebody pick me up. And can I say to you that unless you come to the Lord Jesus like a little child, you will never get in. You don't come to him helping him out. You come utterly dependent on the Lord saying, God, you've got to lift me up. You've got to pick me up. Thank God for the everlasting, loving arms of the Savior that reeks down and pick us up out of sin. Thank God, He's mighty and able. What a picture here. And what a heart our Savior has for the little lambs. Those little ones mean something to him. And then let me point your attention to the blessing of the children. The Bible says in verse 16: He took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them. Notice his passion here. He took them up in his arms. He didn't leave them out struggling. He didn't leave them out just wandering. He reached down and he picked them up. Picked them up. Not only do we see his passion here, but we see his power. Notice he blessed them. He blessed them. You know, there was an Old Testament custom of conveying spiritual blessings on your offspring, on your heritage. Isaac did. Jacob stole the birthright blessing, but he got a blessing because the Father put his hand on him and conveyed the blessing. In fact, Jacob did, and Jacob most notably gave a blessing that you can read in the book of Genesis that is several chapters long as he describes the blessing that he places on the heads of the tribes of Israel, those twelve sons. And he puts his blessing, Joseph brings his two sons and says, bless them too. Conveying a blessing. And no doubt, as we see in our Bible, the blessing of Isaac and the blessing of Jacob and others was a substantial thing. It was a God ordained matter. It was something that God recognized and honored God blessed Jacob because he was the man on whom the hand of his father was laid. But may I say to you that all those earthly blessings pale in comparison? to the blessing that comes when the Lord Jesus puts his hands on a little child. I don't know about you, but I want God's hands on my family. I want it on my I want his hands on my kids. I want his hands on your children. It makes all the difference in the world if the hand of God is on those kids. Oh look, it's a saving hand and a sanctifying hand and a strength-giving hand. It's a hand that saves and secures. Listen, my friend, we need the hand of the Lord on these little ones. And oh what power was in this? I don't know who was in this crowd, but only heaven's going to reveal what this blessing brought. It was a great preacher of yesteryear climbed up in the lap of an old preacher when he was just a boy, and that preacher said, I sense. That God's going to put his hand on this young man and make him good for souls somewhere. And know how that came true and how God used that man? God used him to reach multitudes of people. You don't know what the hand of the Lord Might do. And by the way, I'm sure in this crowd we're families that were all messed up I'm sure there were broken homes represented here. I'm sure that there were single parents. I'm sure that there were people that were disillusioned with the way things were going in that day. There were all sorts of messes. But aren't you glad God He takes messes and works miracles. He takes things that, my friend, look helpless and helpless, and he does the miraculous. That's the kind of God we serve. Don't you think things have got to be perfect before the hand of the Lord can come down? God can reach down into the middle of the the muck and the mire. And pull great big trophies out and show them off as glory to his precious and holy name. He put his hand on them children. Oh, that God had put his hand on some children. That God would put his hand on some of these children, all of these children in this church. That God would put his hand on some children in the vacation Bible school this week. Help them to see they need to be saved. Help them to say, hey, can I urge you about something? The the reality is it's not your job nor mine to convince them. That's the Holy Ghost work. It's his work. You make a child believe putting near anything. I'm telling you, there's such a trusting nature. in a child. My son was telling me something. I told him as a joke when he was little, and that little rascal believed it for a long time. And I I never thought about it. I I you know I thought surely he has enough sense to know I'm playing He and I would go bear hunting and and uh I would bait my traps and and as we would be going out he'd want to help, so I'd say carry that. Man he'd get c we fed them popcorn. So he had butter popcorn all over his little back and and I said, Man, you you better watch out. I said, You look like a big popcorn colonel to them bears And uh I jokingly say to him, you know why I bring you, don't you? He'd say, No. I'd say, because I can outrun you right now. By the way, he's told me before, I can outrun you now. So that's why we don't hunt together anymore. I don't want to be left for bait. But you know children are very trusting. They're very trusting. And it's not my job, nor it is your job, to convince these little children. It's the work of the Spirit of God. Let God work in their little hearts. But oh if his hand had just come on them. And listen, we got to get them around him, and I believe this is a place where he'll be, and these are a people who will represent him well, and and is they're in a position to where he can put his hand on their little lives. And then I see something very precious here. I see the love of the Savior for the little ones. He took them up in his arms, put his hand upon them, and he blessed them. He blessed them because he loved them. He loved them like he loves you and me. He doesn't view these little ones as just mere unnecessary nuisance. They're souls. They're precious souls. Can I say this? Souls are ageless We we deem some souls more precious than others, but I've got news for you. All souls are precious. No old soul or middle-aged soul or whatever. They're ageless, my friend. And these little ones are souls for whom Jesus died. I'll tell you that's why abortion is such a heinous crime in the eyes of God. Because we're dealing with souls. Souls. It's precious the love the Lord has for them. Can I just give you this challenge as we close? Be someone who brings children. Not someone who's a barrier to children. Be a bringer, not a barrier. Beg God to help you with that. Ask the Lord to help us to be a people that can have the heart of the Lord on this thing. Because that's what it is. It's the heart of Christ. And say, Lord, help me to have the heart of my Lord, that I can say, Lord, help me to bring these little ones, not be a barrier. Be like Jesus and suffer. That's a unique word. Suffer the little children. I don't have time to expound it, but Be be someone and and you know what I find is we as I say we well we all are getting older but as I get older there there are things that bother me that never bothered me before. And you know what I'm talking about, don't you? When your children were growing up, their noises perhaps didn't bother you quite like they do now. And many of the other things that go along with that. But you know, may God help us to be like the Lord and say, suffer the little children. I'd rather have our decorum amok and have life. And to have our stately house of worship and be dead as a tomb. And then thirdly, let me say this: beg the Lord to bless efforts made to bring children to Christ. If you can't physically be involved, be a prayer warrior for the sake of children. There's some of you sitting here because some old soul prayed for you. A grandmother, a grandfather. I don't know who. A mom, a dad, I don't know. But there was somebody made intercession on your behalf. And God reached in your life and he put his hand on you. You know why? Because listen They were begging the Lord, here's a child. Bring them to Jesus. And my friend, let's be involved in this thing of prayer and praying that children might be brought to the Lord Jesus. Their precious suffer the little children. Father, we bow our heads just now in your holy presence and thank you.