Searching song, isn't it? May the Lord help us to be a faithful witness for the Lord. I want you to take your Bibles this evening and go with me to 2 Timothy chapter 4. 2 Timothy chapter number 4, and I'm going to begin reading in verse number 16, and I'm going to invite you to stand with me. I'm going to stop at verse 18. Second Timothy, chapter number four And in verse number 16, you'll notice what the Bible says: At my first answer, no man stood with me, but all men forsook me. I pray God that it may not be laid to their charge. Notwithstanding, the Lord stood with me and strengthened me. That by me the preaching might be fully known, and that all the Gentiles might hear. And I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work, and will preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. I want you to look at that statement in verse number 16. All men forsook me All men forsook me. The Lord helping me this evening, I want to preach to the believer, to those who are saved by God's grace, on how to survive a forsaking. How to survive a forsaking. Heavenly Father, we bow our heads and we do ask for help. We realize that what we need here this evening has got to come from heaven. Both for the preacher and the hearer. And so we ask, O Lord, that in mercy you would look our way in a favorable manner and help us, O Lord, as you see fit. Dear Lord, I pray that you would take the burden you've put in my heart, Lord, and help me to communicate it clearly. Hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up the Lord Jesus And Lord, just work in each of our hearts. I thank you, Father, that you meet us right where we are. And Lord, would you just continue to help? And we'll thank you for what you do. We love you. We thank you for loving us. Thank you for the gospel of the Lord Jesus. Christ died for our sin, was buried, rose again the third day. Lord, we thank you that this is our hope and plea. And I'm glad, like the old song says, it is enough that Jesus died and that he died for me. I thank you, Lord, for that. Now, Lord, just have your way and we'll praise you for it, for we ask these things in Jesus' name, and God's people said. You can be seated. Thank you for standing. I again want to point out in verse number sixteen what the apostle Paul Is facing at this time in his life. He said, at my first answer, his request, his plea, his call, he said, no man stood with me. No man stood with me. Now, Paul is in Rome, and he had made his appeal to Caesar, and he has gotten his request. He's now being tried in the courts of Rome, and he sends out some sort of plea Now, we know there's a strong church in Rome because Paul wrote a letter to those dear believers, and in Romans chapter 1, verse 8, he said, your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. So this was not a weak church. This was not an insignificant assembly or assemblies of believers. There were Christians everywhere in Rome. And note this, many of them owed their salvation to the instrumentality of the Apostle Paul. And Paul is now being tried in the court of Rome, and he's seeing, he's saying, some brethren, come stand with me. Some come testify for me. Maybe he was calling for character witness. I don't know. But he he he asked, he made a plea And although he made that plea, it's strange that no Christians came forth. Not one. In fact, he says this all men forsook me and fled. Does that not sound like strange language for such a great Christian like the Apostle Paul? That there wouldn't be one Christian in Rome who would say, I'm going to come stand with you, Paul. I'm going to come identify alongside of you And I'm going to let the courts of Rome know that, you know, you're a godly man, you're preaching the gospel. Not one man stood with him. The Apostle Paul is facing what many of God's people do, and that is a forsaking. It's interesting to me that well, Matthew Henry said this. He said, Men are but men. You say, well, that's not very profound. Well, you ponder it a minute. Because oftentimes we put more stock in flesh and blood than we ought. Because the reality is men are but men. And so all men forsook him and fled. They left him alone. Now, that's not unusual. You read through your Bible, and here you got a man like Job, and I think Job was a man who all men forsook him, and there were a few he wished had fled, but didn't flee. They hung around, you know. But yet he was forsaken by all. Um as I I don't know that his dear wife um turned her back on him, but she did uh give him some very foolish advice and he said so, you speak like a foolish woman. And perhaps she was speaking out of point of pain, but the reality is she wasn't standing with him and Those friends weren't standing with him, and his family's all been swept away. And he, Job, faced a forsaking. What about David? David, when they returned back from the Philistines and came to Ziklag, and the Bible says that all that they had was stolen, and the city was burned with fire. And the men spoke of burning him, stoning him, killing him. They wanted to put him to death. David faced a forsaking. We're talking about men that were mighty men of valor. These were men that would risk their lives and had to this point and would again down the road. But nevertheless, at that moment there was a forsaking, and David had to get alone, and the Bible says he encouraged himself in the Lord his God. So David faced a forsaking. Many of God's people find themselves in a place like that. You you you think about as a Christian Uh you can you can be in a room full of people and yet feel as if you're all alone There will be times of forsaking. Maybe it's a family situation where you're forsaken, or maybe it's a a church situation where you're forsaken. It may be a ministry thing. See, I don't think there's much difference between the pulpit and the pew when it comes to this thing of forsaking. All of God's people will face a forsaking. So what do you do when you face a forsaking? When all men forsake you and flee. I mean, when it seems like you don't have a friend to count on, when you don't have an individual to look to, what do you do? And by the way, these are the defining moments of your Christian life. It's not in the victories that really our Christian life is defined. It's in the defeats. It's what we do when everything falls apart like it did here for Paul. Now look, Paul's in Rome. He's facing the great Caesar. He's going to have to be on trial. His life's going to be examined. And really, this is his last letter. We know he's going to lose his life. His time on earth is quickly going to come to an end. And isn't it a sad thing that he had to face that at the end of the road? Just know this. You're never out of danger until you get home. Some of your fiercest battles might be fought in your last few days. But God is faithful. And so what did Paul do when he faced a forsaken? What did he do when all men forsook him and fled? When everyone turned their back, not a man would stand to his defense. What did the man do? Well, there are about five things I want to give you because I believe it's recorded for a reason. If God would help us to walk the same path. Number one, guard your heart against bitterness. You say, preacher, where's that at? Well, look at verse 16. He said, At my first answer, no man stood with me, but all men forsook me. Listen to this. I pray God that it may not be laid to their charge. You know what he did? He said, I'm going to pray for those men. That God won't hold them to account for what they did. Now that tells me that what they did was wrong. That tells me that their forsaking Him was wrong. and that they were accountable for that. But nevertheless, here's what Paul did. He prayed. He got on his knees. He said, Now Lord, don't hold that to their charge. Doesn't that sound a lot like Stephen when he was being stoned and put to death? Doesn't that sound like our lovely Lord Jesus when he hung on Calvary's cross and he said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do? You're never more like Christ when you're praying in this fashion. And here he prayed. He said, Lord, I pray God that it might not be laid to their charge. You say, why'd you pray like that? He prayed like that because he's praying for pardon that he might find peace. He's praying for their pardon. He's praying that God would not hold them to charge for what they had done. And he's saying, Now Lord, please help them. And in praying that, I believe he got help himself. By the way, I don't know of anything that will protect your heart from getting bitter. Any better than praying for those that you could be bitter over. And I mean praying very seriously for their spiritual well being. And that's exactly what Paul's doing here. He's praying, Oh God, please, don't lay it to their charge. Don't hold them to account for that. Lord, you pardon them. Lord have mercy upon them. And in praying that way, he's protecting his heart. from getting bitter. I'm gonna tell you, I think, and I I'm certainly not an expert and hadn't been around a long time, but I know an I I think I know enough or have seen enough that bitterness gets more of God's people than about anything I know. They get bitter They get bitter over something said, something done, some experience they go through, and they get bitter. I prayed as a young man, not knowing, not knowing at all what I was praying. But I prayed, Lord, don't let me get to be an old bitter preacher. I know a lot of them. I shouldn't say a lot, I know several. I know several that the older they got and the older they get, the more bitter they become. Why? Because of all the things that come their way. And I I'm not excusing bitterness, but I sure understand it better than I once did The reality is people sometimes are just awful. Saved people. I'm not talking about lost people. That's a whole different thing. I'm talking about people who are saved who name the name of the Lord Jesus, or at least say they are, only the Lord knows. But the reality is, man, people can do some awful mean things. I believe his doc was telling me this week about a preacher they knew, and after twenty-some years of serving the church, they turned him out, quit paying him, starved him out, run him off. I thought, after all those years, is there not some respectability to show the servant of the Lord? But the reality is sometimes people just take some awful turns. And again, this bitterness is not something exclusive to the pulpit. The reality is, sitting in a pew, you can get bitter because of what happens in your life that comes from the hand of another Christian. We're all susceptible. And there's only one way to keep your heart from getting bitter And that's get on your knees and pray to God. And especially pray for those that are the occasion of bitterness and ask God To not lay it to their charge, pray for forgiveness, pray for God to work spiritually in their life, and pray for their well-being. I'm telling you, it'll protect your heart from getting bitter against the Lord. Paul had to pray that. Paul had to protect his heart. I know he's an apostle. I know he's God called. I know he's chosen. I know he's that appointed apostle. I believe he was to be that twelfth man, that he was that one that God said is the one that's to take this office. I know all of that, the apostle of the Gentiles But I also know this, he was still a man. And I don't care what you have on your record as far as your accomplishments spiritually or how long you've lived for the Lord, at the end of the day, we every one of us are still flesh and blood. And because we're flesh and blood, we're susceptible to anything flesh and blood is susceptible to. And bitterness is one of our arch enemies that will take you out quicker than anything I know. You've got to protect, and I've got to protect my heart against this thing of bitterness You know, as Paul thought about this and prayed about this, perhaps he realized that there was more to the story than he could see. By the way, I believe his confidence in the sovereignty of God caused him to understand the failures of men. Because you need to understand something. God is God. And He's in charge. Man does what man does, but God Almighty is still God. And he's on the throne. And so oftentimes I believe God arranges a forsaking so that men will lead harder on the Lord than they do men. What's that middle verse they tell us of the Bible? It's better to put your trust in the Lord than have confidence in man. And the great struggle that we often have is that we put too much confidence in that which is unreliable. And not enough in the one who never fails. So he prayed. He protected his heart. So if you're going to survive a forsaken, you better guard your heart against bitterness. You better pray and ask the Lord to put a garrison around your heart and protect it as you pray for those individuals that bring that occasion in your life. Number two. Notice verse 17, the first part. He makes this statement. He says, notwithstanding, the Lord stood with me and strengthened me. Not only do you need to guard your heart against bitterness, but you need to recognize one who's ever present. Need to recognize the one who will never fail. It 's that that great big word, I wanted to spend more time on it than I really got this evening, but that great big word notwithstanding I love that word, Andy. I love to look at it and think about it because what it really says in the face of all of that, in spite of all of that. No matter about all of that. All of those men forsook me and fled, but this eclipses all of those things. What is this? The Lord stood with me, and the Lord strengthened me. You know what really matters? It don't matter who walks out. It matters who stays by you. And the one who stays by you is the one who said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. I'm grateful we serve a God who's ever-present and never abandons his children. Recognize the ever-present one. And I like this. The Bible points out something. It says he stood. He stood with me and he strengthened me. He stood with me. He stood by me. Listen, this wasn't the first time Paul had had a visit by this one who stood by him Remember on his trip to Rome, he got in a storm and everybody thought we're gonna die. The sailors, you know, thought they were gonna die. Who was I talking to? Somebody's talking about flying. And you know, people tell me stories about flying. You're not helping my desire to want to fly. I'm going to tell you that. Because they're all bad And somebody was telling me about flying and they were flying with the stewardess and this person flew all the time. And she's, you know, he was a little nervous and apprehensive and and uh i he said, you know, she seemed pretty cool and calm and he figured, well, she does this all the time. She's okay, I'm gonna be okay. And they hit turbulence. And he said, She got scared, and her eyes got big, and she got a death grip on the seat. And he said, I got real scared. Because he said, if somebody who's done this all the time is afraid, he said, I don't know anything and I'm really afraid. But I'm glad to report to you. Here these sailors are there saying, Man, let's unload the ship, let's Throw out all of this stuff out of the ship. Let's get this load off of here and let's see if we can save this thing. And then it says all hope was lost. And they just cut the ship loose and let her go wherever the storm took her. They weren't interested in trying to save it because they thought there was no hope. And that was when Paul got down the belly of that ship and he got a hold of God and the Bible says the Lord appeared unto Paul. The Lord came and stood by him. I'm here to tell you when you need the Lord the most is when he'll show up the best. And he'll stand by his children. Recognize the ever-present one. Men will fail, but God never God never. I've got a great big thing here in my Bible I keep. I've wrote it in all my Bibles, my preaching Bible, my reading Bible, my studying Bible, my house Bible, and my office Bible Every one of them I got this text wrote in the front, and this one I carry with me when I preach. Psalm 62, 5. God gave me this last year. My soul, wait thou only upon God, for my expectation is from Him. That's who we're trusting. Our expect listen, men will disappoint you if you put your expectation in them. But our God won't What a psalm. Psalm 62, 5. Recognize the ever-present one. Here's what Paul said. Paul said, those men left, but the Lord didn't. And because the Lord didn't leave, he said he stood with me and he strengthened me. I'm glad God still knows how to pour strength into weak vessels. He gives power to the faint, and to him that hath no might he increaseth strength. Number three, I want you to notice something else Paul did when he survived this forsaking. Number three, just be faithful. Just be faithful. Look what it says in verse 17. He says that by me the preaching might be fully known. And that all the Gentiles might hear. You know, Paul didn't set in Roman sulk, he kept on serving. Kept on preaching. Kept on telling the good news. Kept on pointing people to Jesus. If I can say it like this, he just stayed at it And can I give you some encouragement? If you're surviving or forsaking, the best thing you can do is just keep doing what God told you to do. Whatever it is, stay at it. It may be teaching your class, keep teaching your class. It may be singing in the choir, keep singing in the choir. It may be serving in some capacity, just keep serving. You know why? Because God honors faithfulness. It's required, the Bible says, among stewards, that a man be found faithful. Look, there's a lot of people today, and they're flashy. And you know, you know what I'm saying? They they they kind of they're like the racehorse. They show up and show off and then they fizzle out And they're flashy. I mean, they're impressive. Man, I've seen them over the years. They impress you. They wow you. But yet they just can't be faithful. Look, my friend, I don't believe a missionary that's not faithful at home will be faithful when you put him on a new place and put him in a new address. I don't believe a missionary that can't be faithful to church, faithful in some form of service, is going to do anything for God just because they take up a new residence among a new people. They're going to be there what they were here. That's why you got to be faithful. That's why faithfulness matters. Boy, we need to tell a new generation that faithfulness is important because if you're not faithful, you're not following the Lord because He's the God of all faithfulness. Here Paul just kept going. He just kept preaching. He said they left. God didn't. But I just kept telling the Gentiles. I just kept telling the gospel message. It needed to be spread. Now, by the way These Christians in Rome, they missed out on a great opportunity, but those lost souls sure didn't. So many heard the gospel and were saved simply because of his imprisonment there in Rome. You know, you don't know that God has put you in the position you're in so that you can point someone to the Lord. As uncomfortable and as disagreeable and as disappointing as it may be, it may be the place of divine appointment. God says I want you right here to tell someone how to be saved and show them that Jesus Christ is real. I was thinking about Dad when Mom went to heaven. They'd been married fifty-seven years, and I remember when sh when he came out of that room after Mom had took her last breath. And that that was a beautiful place she was in. It was one of these um uh centers where uh people uh leave the world from. I was trying to think of what you call 'em, but Anyway, uh a palliative care facility, and uh she she was in there and and uh for a lot of the people there, this was every day. I mean people were dying constantly around us And I noticed in some of the help, some of the staff there, that there was a almost a a carelessness about what was happening right around them. I mean Families are brokenhearted and people that you love are leaving this world. And uh I remember when Dad came out of that room and My dad was not a very emotional person and uh rarely, rarely showed emotion. He was that old school type of mountain man. He just If he was happy, you know, ask him, he'd tell you. You didn't have to show you. He didn't express his emotions. But I remember when he walked out And he lifted his arms up in the air. I'd never seen Dad do this particular thing. And he said, the Lord giveth, said it loud. He said, the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. I remember standing there and he got right in my face and my brother, my sister. He said, Children, remember this. The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. Blessed, and he dwelt on that. Blessed, blessed, blessed be the name of the Lord. And boy, up there at that nurse's station, every one of them just got silent, and their eyes got big, and they looked down through there And I thought, I wonder if we're not here for some soul up there. I wonder if we're not here because there's somebody here that needs to be saved. There's somebody here that needs to know That boy you can leave this world. Uh not not in a in a situation, Mom. Poor mom, she she didn't want any medication. She said she wanted to leave out of here uh letting people know that that this thing is real, that Jesus is real, his help is real. And that's exactly what happened, man. He he it was real. And I'm here to tell you that God will often put us in places, maybe places of forsaking, so that we can show others Jesus Christ is real. So just be faithful. Do you realize that souls hang in the balance? What if Paul had quit? This close to the end. What if Paul had said, I'm done? I mean Look, these fellows, all these Christians, they forsook me and fled. I've got nobody I'm finished, I'm through, and run up the white flag of surrender. Do you know how much help we would have missed out on? How much of the word of God that we would have missed out on and the truths that we would have not got to enjoy simply because this man quit? I heard a man preaching this morning. He had 15 points on why I can't quit. Why I can't quit. He went down the list, my congregation and my companion, and my children, and my Christ, and his cross. And the comforts of the Holy Ghost. And there was a whole bunch of them. I'm going to have to listen and write them all down. And you might hear them again, because there's nothing new under the sun. But the truth of the matter is, my friend, there's a lot of reasons not to quit. I'm going to tell you something. There are children and young people that may be watching your life. Don't quit. Don't quit. One of the things that spurs my heart on, I don't want my children. You know, I've seen Christians quit and it always affects their children. It all and it's devastating. Usually, usually they turn them into rebels and they turn against God simply because they quit. Not always, but usually that's the course it follows. I don't want my children, listen, I want the Lord to help me not to quit simply because I want my children to know you can finish well. You can run your course, you can keep the faith, you can fight a good fight, you can come to the finish line and say, hey, I stayed true and God help me, and listen, and give them hope that they can go on and serve the Lord. There's a whole generation that needs to see. Oh, may God help us to be faithful. Well, let me quickly get these other two. Number four. I'm talking about how to survive a forsaking. Number one, guard your heart against bitterness. Number two, recognize the ever-present one. Number three, be faithful. Number four, count on God's protection. Count on God's protection. Look what it says in verse 17. He said, and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. You know what Paul's saying? God protected me. Now there's a lot of debate on who that lion is. He says the lion. So That sort of makes me think he's talking about Nero. Others seem to think that he's talking about being delivered from the arena when he was perhaps thrown to the lines. And he was delivered out of that situation. We really don't know. But here's what we do know. God kept him safe when his life was in jeopardy. God protected him. Now listen, I think sometimes we suffer from the idea that we gotta look after ourselves. That somehow or another we're in charge of everything. And and you know we gotta just protect ourselves. We've got to take care of ourselves. Let me say, I'm not advocating being foolish, but I've got news for you. There's a God in heaven that looks after his children. You don't have to worry about every little thing. I was reading recently in a psalm where David said, My defense is of God. You know what David did in situation? He just kept his mouth shut and let the Lord look after him. And there are times that you just need to let the Lord look after you. He'll do a whole lot better job than you can And it listen, he will you can count on God to protect you. I read where Livingston, when he landed in Africa, he was traveling too late at night, not knowing that it was dangerous, and found himself up a tree running from a lion And that thing circled the tree all night, he said, and and and was expressing his displeasure over his presence. That's the Englishman's way of saying he was hungry and wanted to eat me, but I was up a tree and he couldn't reach me. But you know what? He said I felt safer there in the will of God than I did in my bed in England out of the will of God. You know why? God will protect you. Paul said, I know all men forsook me, and I didn't have anybody stand up for me in court, but here's what I do know: God pulled me out of the mouth of the line. God delivered me out of the mouth of the lion. Listen, church, you can count on God to take care of you. I left that old hymn, God will take care of you. Through every day or all the way, He will take care of you. God protects His people And you and I, when we're trying to survive or forsaking, need to remember that God protects his people. God's people are immortal till God's through with them. Now I believe that. I believe that with all my heart. Until God's through with you, my friend, listen, you're not going to go anywhere. The devil's not going to do anything until God's finished. And so you can rest assured that God will protect his own. You don't need an army. You don't need an army. You don't need a battalion uh uh uh battalions come and surround you and and and and fortress you in. You don't need that. Paul didn't have anybody. Paul didn't have anything. He's a prisoner. He's subject now to Nero 's madness. He didn't have any of that, but he said, you know what? God took me out of his mouth. God delivered me out of the mouth of the lion. See, God uses human agency, but he doesn't need it. I was talking to a brother this morning about the Boxer Rebellion, and some Christians fled from those soldiers and went and hid in the cave. And all evening and through the night, this spider worked tirelessly building a web I mean build a web so thick that when the soldiers came through looking for them, they heard them stop and look and say, nope, nobody's been in there for days. Look at look at the web. Look at that. There's so much spider web in there, there's not a soul been in that cave. Now God can employ a little spider to save his children if he wants to. That's the God we serve. Listen, God can do anything God wants to do because He's God. And God will protect His own. You can count on that. When you have to survive or forsaking, know this: God will protect you. Boy, it was an eye opener to me in ministry. I had a man say to me one time, he said, uh, met him at the back door, and he said, Not here, but he said, I'm praying for you. And you know, when people say that I appreciate it. That means more to me than I can express. He said, I'm praying for you, and I said, Thank you. He said, Well, you won't thank me if I tell you what I'm praying for. I said, yeah. Yeah, he said, I'm praying God will kill you or move you, one or the other. He just said don't matter to me. And I said, really? And then I found out he was having prayer meetings in his home and inviting people from the church to join him to pray that God would kill me or move me. He didn't know I knew that. And after I found out about that, I I said to him, I said, I hear you had a prayer meeting tonight. And he got all hashed and I said, I think I'm going to come. And I said, I'll tell you, I'm not going to pray those two things. I'm going to pray against it As if. Remember, I had a lady one time, she said, God always answers my prayer. I said, that's wonderful. God is a prayer answering God. She said, yeah, I prayed for some things. Some pretty bad things have happened. You you don't want to cross me. I was like, really? Now I was young and had no tact then. I told her to hit the road wide open. And just have her way. I didn't I didn't have time for that. Now I find I'm getting back to that now that I'm getting old. I hope I'm not getting cranky. But I I found that a lot of times there's no time to mince words. And how foolish that is, how foolish that is Pray all she wants to pray. Pastors, my pastor was holding a tent meeting and boy he upset the witches covenant in that community And they sent a whole delegation, about 30 of them, women, and they came in and sat about two or three pews from the front. And they did all this chanting and all this uh spell casting through the service. Man, it was distracting And I remember when Brother Ralph seen him the first time he called his song leader. He said, Come here. He said, How many songs about the blood are there in that hymn book? He said, I don't know. There's seven or eight. He said, we're going to sing them all right now. And every night we sang songs about the blood. And I watched them all through that meeting. We were in that community 19 weeks. And I can remember every night they went a little further back, a little further back, fewer would come, fewer would come. And the next thing you know, there's two or three sitting on the back row, and it wasn't long they were plumbing out the door. God actually saved one of those ladies. I'm here to tell you God will take care of you. You can count on God's protection. Number five, and I'm through. Surviving or forsaking. Number one, guard your heart against bitterness. Number two, recognize the ever-present one. Number three, just be faithful. Number four, count on God's protection. And number five, don't lose hope. Don't lose hope. Look at verse 18. Paul's looking to the future. Here's what he said. And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work. And will preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. You know what? He still had hope. I don't think Paul was oblivious to what was coming. I believe with all my heart he knew, he knew that soon he'd lay his life down. I believe he understood completely that this was going to cost him, he was going to lose his life there in Rome. This was the end of the road. This was his swan song that he's pinning, but he still had hope. Look what his hope was. His confidence in the protection of the Lord in the future. He said, He shall deliver me from every evil work. It's as if Paul said, Don't, you know, don't threaten me with heaven. That's all he was doing. You got he said, I'm going to kill you. By the way, Paul was the sort of man the devil didn't really know what to do with. For me to live is Christ and to die is gain. If I live, it's Christ. If I die, I'm better off. I mean, what are you going to do? And that's exactly the attitude that he had. He had a hope in the Lord. He realized that look, all that Nero could do was remove his head and end his life and just open the gates to glory for him to go home. Ah, what a hope the child of God has. It don't matter what comes against you. Here's the good news. If God be for us, look, friend, it don't matter what or who or where or all the things that are against us. If God be for us, thank God we're more than conquerors. Thank the Lord for future hope. Don't lose hope. Child of child of God, God is faithful, and look at this. He said, Will preserve me. Will preserve me under his heavenly kingdom. Aren't you glad for the preservation work of God? He'll preserve you. Oh, we believe that the Lord in heaven secures his little children, and there is nothing that can take us out of the Father's hand. That we are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. Look, my friend, there is a preservation. You're preserved, you're kept, you're sealed. And listen, I don't care what the devil tries to do, he cannot bar glory for you. He can't slam the door to heaven for you. He can't take your eternal soul from you He can't listen, he can't unsave you because he didn't save you to start with and you didn't save you to start with. God in heaven saved you, and what God does is eternal in nature. So thank God, my friend, we've got hope in the Lord. And I believe as as Paul looked at that, here's what he understood. Heaven is gonna rot many of Earth's wrongs Heaven's gonna fix it. There's a lot of things you and I just can't fix. You know that The Bible talks about a brother offended, being hard to be one, like bars. I mean, there's just some things you can't break through. There's some of wrongs on earth that you just can't repair. You may want to fix them, you may try to fix them, and I don't know about you, but I've tried to fix a few things I've just made worse. But heaven, you I I you know, I I wonder, are there going to be, some of you Bible scholars around here, are there going to be are there going to be apologies in heaven? You find the answer, tell me, okay? I'm interested And I'd like the Bible to figure this out. I I know in heaven I'm going to have a new body. I'm going to be glorified. And listen, we're not going to be bound by all the stuff that we're bound with down here But but there's gonna have to be a whole lot of wrongs faced up there. There's a lot of wrong on this earth that's gonna have to be faced up there There's God's people done God's people wrong, and that's going to have to be faced up there. I don't know. There may just have to be some apologies made up in heaven, but here's what I do know. In heaven no pride's going to keep us from doing it In heaven, no no no anger is going to keep us from doing it. No unforgiveness is going to keep us from doing it. Here's what I know. All of earth's wrongs are going to be made right in heaven's glory. Thank God for a hope like that, my friend. Hang on to that hope. Don't lose that hope. No, that's not just pie in the sky. That's the truth of God's Bible. And I'll tell you what, Paul survived this forsaking. He goes on, and I think he calls some of these Christians that were in that part of the world by name and he's he starts talking about 'em and and and he he he recognizes them And he's got some. I like how verse 21 ends. It says, Ubulus greeteth thee, Pudens, Linus, Claudia, and all the brethren. All that crowd that forsook him now have come back around him. Aren't you glad that God has a way sometimes of reversing things? God can do that. God can take a mortal foe and make him a faithful friend. He sure can. I believe he did it here for Paul. So if you're going to survive the forsaking. You better guard your heart against bitterness. Better recognize there's an ever-present one, God who'll never fail. Just be faithful. Just be faithful. Count on God's protection and whatever else you do, don't lose hope. Because the Lord will deliver. The Lord will deliver, and He will preserve you for His heavenly kingdom. I'm glad what God starts, he finishes. One of these days, he's going to finish what he started in every one of us. The work will be done, the battle will be won, and home will be enjoyed. What a day that's going to be. You ever get home after a long day's work and sit down and you just get that feeling, man, it's good to be home. The other day I sat down, I went to take my boots off, and I looked at the clock and I said, man, I've had these boots on 16 hours today. And I took them off and I thought just for a minute before I passed out, I said, man, it's good to be home Can you imagine what it's going to be like when we get to heaven? And all this battle of hell we fought down here and all the trials and troubles and all that, and and we just lay it all down. And and we're home. Not to have to get up and go to it at the next morning, but we're home for good. We're eternally home. What a day that's going to be. I still see Sister Modena Miller, dear little pastor's wife, widow lady in our church, should sing, What a day that will be, when my Jesus I shall see. When he takes me by the hand, leads me through the promised land, what a day, glorious day that will be. Now listen, that's going to be a day. I don't have vocabulary to explain to you or describe to you what it's going to be like, but I'll tell you what, it'll be like something you've never enjoyed before. And that lies in your future, dear Christian. That lies ahead for you. Keep that in mind when you've got to survive a forsaking. Let's stand together, please.