And people gather. Uh it's been my experience. There can be tension and you know, just uh overall strangeness, but none of that is existed this week. It was just good fellowship. And uh I usually got out of there by ten, sometimes a little later, but uh sometimes the lights were on at the tabernacle till eleven thirty, twelve o'clock And uh folks were enjoying fellowship and that's good. That's good. Might have been a little difficult on our neighbors, but uh it was it was good and I was doing some things there, I think it was about uh eleven or eleven fifteen Friday night and was outside and I stopped and I could hear them singing up in the tabernacle And uh praising the Lord. And that's what it's for. That's what camp meeting's all about. And I I appreciate that. Psalm 78. Let me read something to you here quickly. Psalm 78 and verse number one. Give ear, O my people, to my law. Incline your ears to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in a parable. I will utter dark sayings of old, which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us. We will not hide them from their children, showing to the generation to come the praises of the Lord, and his strength, and his wonderful works that he hath done. For he established a testimony in Jacob and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers that they should make them known to their children. That the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born, who should arise and declare them to their children. That they might set their hope in God and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments And might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not steadfast with God. I want you to think about what the psalmist is saying here. He's talking about testifying and communicating the things the Lord has done. And I pray the Lord will help us now. Father, we come in Jesus' name and bow our heads and ask for your help. Lord, I stand where no man can stand alone. I pray that, Lord, you'll hide me and help me. And Lord, that you'll do what you desire. Lord, I pray you'd help the people. God, I thank you for their faithfulness over this past week. Lord, I know The schedules were full, the days were busy, bodies are tired tonight, probably in a in an unusual way. But Lord, would you give grace and strength in these few moments? And just give us something from heaven as we, Lord, prepare to start a new week and look forward to what you have for us. Thank you, Lord, for your mercy. Thank you for the precious blood. Thank you for our dear Savior. Oh Lord, how we're grateful tonight that you loved us and you gave yourself for us. We thank you, Lord, that the tree is no longer uh standing with the savior hanging on it, nor is the tomb occupied, but the throne in heaven is filled with your majesty and your person. We bow before you and worship you as our risen living Savior. Father, please take your word and speak as only you can. We'll give you the glory. For we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. The burden of the psalm, and I hope you'll take the time to read it. I uh wasn't going to do that this evening. There's seventy-two verses in this psalm. It's one of the longer Psalms, I believe it is the second longest uh Psalm written by Asaph. And the burden of the Psalm is that we Get another generation aware of the wonderful works of God. That we help others know that the Lord is real. And there's some instruction here concerning that. It's been my burden since God grabed our home with our daughter that my children would know that my God is real. And I knew they'd have to come to the place where they believed and received and was born again. But it was the burden of my heart as a father to demonstrate to them that God is real. He's not a figment of our imagination. He's not a religious character that's been created by man, but he's a very real and mighty God. who's able and works in the lives of our pe of our family. And this is what the burden of the psalm is. He's wanting to communicate this and get this message across. that hey, you make sure that next generation knows God is real. As we sat under that tabernacle this week, I thought of those who've gone on before us. I thought of those that had the burden to see a meeting like that started, and those that labored sacrificed, those that gave, those that that uh worked over there and built that thing and and then had meetings uh year after year after year Joseph and I were riding in the truck and he had gotten one of the CDs of the nineteen seventy-three camp meeting And uh there's a particular song in there. And I forget the name of the song, but you could tell, boy, when that song, when they started singing that song, business picked up under the tabernacle You could hear them shouting and and uh sound like there was a whole lot of people there and there was a great deal of joy being demonstrated And uh Joseph said, you know, that's good. He he seemed to really enjoy that. And just he said, I heard about it, but I wanted to hear it for myself. to hear. By the way, if if if this next generation doesn't hear these things, know these things, understand these things, a lot of that stuff's gonna die with the people I'm looking at right now. And I don't know about you, but I don't want the truth of God and uh and the worship of God to die on my watch. I I want it I want it to pass I want at least pass on. I I pray the Lord will give me enough strength and wisdom that in the latter years of my life I'll be able to pass on something that he has done. And that's what the psalmist is concerned about. And I want you to see it here. I want you to see, number one, this call to hear. He's calling the children of Israel. He said, I want you to listen. Look what he says in verse 1. Give ear to my law. Give ear to my law. He's talking here about tuning in. And listening, give give your ear. Perhaps we use the phrase, lend me your ear. It's an old English phrase, but it comes out of this text because the Bible says Give me your ear. Listen. Tune in to what it is that I've got to say. How many of you know you've got to do that on purpose? You ever catch yourself listening and not listening? It's awful easy to do, isn't it? And I mean tell I'm telling you, some of us are gifted enough we can look you right in the eye and we can answer your questions and still somehow or another not be listening. Amen. Some of you have children like that, as I do too. Because we were children like that. If you'll be honest, we were children like that. But I'm talking about giving God your ear. Listen, God wants you to, God has something to say. And I appreciate the testimonies tonight. People say, God said this to me. God spoke to me. God spoke from his word. And by the way, he always has something to say if you've got ears to listen. So give me your ear. And then he said, Incline your ears. And that word incline means to intently listen. It's sort of to to lean in. So that you can get it. You don't want to miss it. You're intense about hearing what it is the Lord has to say And and I'll tell you, when we gather and we hear the preaching of the Word of God or we read our Bibles and study them individually and privately, we need to be intent on hearing. God, I want to hear what you have to say And listen, listen, and incline our ears. And then you'll notice the text goes on to say, uh our fathers in verse 3 have told us. We need to listen. Now the fathers, I believe ASAP was speaking of here, would be Moses and Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. those fathers of the nation of Israel, through whom God had something to say. They were men that walked with God, and they walked with God and God had something to say through them. And Asap said, we're listening to our fathers. They they told us And I don't know about you, but I want to be someone that God can say something through as well as say something to, so that we can communicate something of value to the next generation. Our fathers have told us. God has something to say. A. W. Tozer said this: God has nothing to say to the frivolous man. God has nothing to say to the frivolous man, but he has much to say to the serious man. To the man or woman who's serious. God, I want to hear your voice. Lord, I want you to speak to me. You know what? He'll speak to you. And he'll do it through the pages of his word. So we have this call to hear, but look with me, if you will, quickly at the command the tell. Starting verse number four, the Bible says, we will not hide them from their children, showing to the generation to come The praises of the Lord, his strength, and his wonderful works that he hath done. For he hath established a testimony in Jacob And appointed a law in Israel which he commanded our fathers that they should make them known to their children. We got a command to tell. We're to show to the generations to come. You say, well, preacher, I don't have children. Do you realize that here in this assembly, many of you, as you testify, you're showing to the children around you? You've got a responsibility of the children in disassembly. You're showing them. You're showing them. I I'm just thinking and and and thinking about things and And uh I'm grateful for some of the Christians that have invested in the life of my children. I'm grateful for saints that spoke to them the things of God. Who pointed them to the ways of God, who was an example of how to live for God, who set a pattern and said, This is the way that you should live, this is what the Lord says. And you know what they were doing? It wasn't their children, but in a sense they were being an influence on those children and saying, We're going to show that generation to come the praises of the Lord. Know how we need to do that You know if you don't show them they'll be ignorant. Ignant of God. There was a generation that rose up in Israel who knew not God. They didn't know about the power of God. And can I say it wasn't their fault? It wasn't that generation's fault. It wasn't the children. We talk about the child the young people and all this. But listen, a whole lot of that's not their fault because they're just doing what they know to do if somebody don't tell them any different Somebody's got to tell them. Somebody's got to tell them about God and the reality that He lives and He's mighty and He's powerful. Someone's got to point them to him and tell the the greatness of our God and say, look, he's not a fairy tale. Religion's not man-made. I was listening to a brother this afternoon. He's a missionary to Scotland He's working in the northern part of the country up around Aberdeen, and he said that 80% of the people between 16 and 35 In Scotland, eighty percent are uh they are of no religion. They claim no religion. They don't believe there's a God, they don't believe there's a higher power, they don't acknowledge anything. Eighty percent And do you realize that Scotland is the land of revival? It is a in the 1800s, 16 , 17, 1800s, it was a an epicenter of mighty moves of God. And the Lord worked, but somewhere along the way, somebody didn't tell the next generation. Somebody dropped the ball and didn't show the next generation that God is alive and well. And can I say to you, that can very well happen here if we don't take our job seriously? We must tell We must tell. Friend, we mustn't be intimidated by the lies of the current culture. We must not cow down under the pressure of unbelieving men and women who are are purposefully blinding their children and maybe grandchildren and saying, look, you know, don't don't try to influence them. I'm here to tell you, my friend Their souls are worth the battle of influencing them and pointing them to Jesus Christ. What hope do they have? I'm going to tell you something. The world don't have anything for them. The world doesn't have anything for your children or your grandchildren. The world has nothing but hopelessness. The world has nothing but death and devastation. The devils who are nothing but damning and destroying lives. And I'll tell you the only hope they have is to meet Jesus And my friend, the best way to meet him is through those who already know him, and it's our job, it's our calling to tell others and to show the generation to come that he's alive and well. We're commanded to show. What are we to show? We're to show his praises. We're to show his excellencies. We're to show that he's a worthy God. You know why we praise him? Because he's worthy of our praise. We speak of his greatness because he's a great God. He's worthy of our praises. And then we're to show them his strength that the Lord does help you. The Lord will help you. He's very real. I mean he'll help you. I don't it doesn't matter what it is you're doing, he'll help you. He'll help you whether it is your you're on your job or he'll help you in your home or he'll help you in whatever it is you're facing He's a God who's a very present help in time of trouble. Psalm 46, 1 tells us that. God is our refuge and help. He's a very present or our strength and a very present help in trouble. We're to show them that. We're to show our children that God will help you. Look for ways to do it. And I know a lot of your grandparents. Show them. Show your grandchildren, God will help you. Now, one of the things God spoke to my heart about early in our marriage is that we'd pray before we go down the road somewhere. And uh one because there's so many knuckleheads on the road. And and two, I want the children to know that if you got safely somewhere, it's because God helps you do it. God helps you get there. It's God's mercy that got you from point A to B. And uh we need the Lord's help, don't we? We we we need him when we get up in the morning and start our day. My friend, listen, sometimes we we live as if there is no God and we ought not to do it. Our children, you say, but I I don't want them to think I'm dependent. Well, I want them to think I'm dependent on the Lord. I I I want another generation to know that you can lean hard on the mighty arm of God and He'll see you through because He is faithful. They need to see the help of the Lord. We need to pass that on. We're commanded to tell of his strength. And then notice, he says, of his wonderful works that he hath done. The things the Lord's done. We ought to ought to make much of that. You ought to make much of it. One of the reasons we had testimony time tonight, I want you to make much of what the Lord's done. I want you to make much that the Lord, hey, the Lord's done some things. And we ought to tell what the Lord's done. What a tell how the Lord's brought us through. There's some of you, I know your testimony so well, I can tell it better than you can. But the reality is, is I love to hear it. You know why? Because it's the great things the Lord has done. It's what the Lord did for you when He found you and dug you out and saved you and changed your life. Man, that's something to talk about. That's something to repeat over and over. We ought to see to it that especially the generation to come knows that salvation is real. That God is mighty in his power to change lives. We'd go on Saturday morning, Joe got bigger, I'd take him to the men's prayer meeting. And some of those older men would tell their testimony every single Saturday morning. We'd sit around and get ready to pray, and brother would share about how he got saved. And you know, in the beginning I thought, tell something new. Tell something different. We hear it the same. But then I got to thinking, you know, I want my son to know how real God is in that man's life. I want him to know that the Lord stopped by that man, a wicked, vile, corrupt individual, and saved his life And so changed him that the whole community knew that, hey, something happened to him bigger than religion, bigger than man, God got a hold of that man's line and changed him forever. I'm telling you, friend, we need to show the wonderful works. Show the tell it. Tell it wherever you go. Tell what the Lord has done. It's a command of God. Now, I want you to see the cause that we need to consider. He says, here's the cause of all of that. Here's why you need to listen, and here's why you need to tell. Verse number six, that the generation to come might know them. Even the children which should be born, who should arise and declare them to their children. We see here in verse number 6 the transmission of truth. You know how it gets transmitted? You know how it gets communicated as you tell that generation to come. As you communicate, you tell them. How do you know if you don't tell them? My son helped me with see don't know he did this, but he helped me with something. I was trying to get him to do something. And and how many of you dads know sometimes you think they ought to know how to do this Man, you're fuming and fussing and boiling and you're s why and he said, You've never told me how. Well, slow down and show him. How you gonna learn if somebody don't show you? I got to thinking, you know what, somebody showed me. And the things of God must be taught. We must show them We we've got to show our children the importance of the Lord in our lives. We've got to show them the importance of the Word of God. I can still see my dad at three o'clock in the morning sitting there with a cup of coffee at the table reading his Bible Before he go to work, he'd get up that extra early so he could read. And then I'd see him by his head. He wouldn't pray aloud because everybody was asleep. Our little old house was small. I mean I could lay in the bed and look through the crack and see him And I remember seeing him reading his Bible and seeing him bow his head and pray. And that burned in my heart as a young, as a as just a wee boy. It burned in my heart that, hey, there's something important about this. It must be important because he'll get up a couple hours before he has to go to work and he'll open it and read it and pour over it and pray and talk to There must be something important. He showed me that. He never had to say it, but he demonstrated it. We see the transmission of truth. But look at verse 7. Here's another cause. Not only that they might know the truth, but we see the transformation of life. That they might set their hope in God and not forget the works of God, but keep His commandments Why do we make sure they know who the Lord is and what his word says and what he can do so they'll trust him So they'll trust him. They'll put their hope in God. So that they will have a relationship with the Lord one day. So that they'll come to know the Lord and they'll begin to live for him. There's no, well what what little John say, I I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth Is there any greater joy that that than to know that your children love God and are going to live for the Lord? And folks listen, the reason we tell them the truth, the reason we show them what the Lord can do, is so that they somewhere, somehow might come to know the Lord, and when they come to know the Lord, they'll put their hope in God and He will change their life. Thank God He does that. There's another reason. Because there's trouble to avoid. And what you notice verse number eight. Now here's something rather strange to me because it seems to contradict everything that's been said. We're talking about fathers teaching their children. Fathers instructing their children. The responsibility we have, father, mother, as individuals, to pass on to another generation, the truth of God, and here's what he said, and might not be as their fathers. A stubborn and rebellious generation. A generation that set not their heart aright and whose spirit was not steadfast with God. He's talking about well that could fit a lot of generations of Israel. That could fit the wilderness generation. That could fit uh the king's period generations. There are a lot of generations that were just like this. And you know what he's saying? He's saying, you teach them the truth so that they'll see there's trouble to avoid. You let them know that not everybody's done right and everybody's doing right. But listen, we don't do what everybody does. We do what the Lord says And we realize that there are some that are stubborn and they're rebellious. And let me ask you something, where is that taking you? Where does that stubbornness and rebellion take a people? Well, read the Bible, and you'll see where it takes them. It takes them into captivity. It takes them into devastation and destruction. Our world is so mixed up. People are broken and lives are being destroyed. And yet we claim the freedom to do it. We want our way and we want it our way and yet you want to ask the question how is that working for you? Where is that taking you? I'll tell you where it's taking you. It's going to take you to hell one day It's going to take you in a place of eternal suffering. And my friend, listen, it's not helping you on the journey there. But I'm glad there's a way, God's way. We heard about it in Sunday school this morning. And that's a good way. That's a good way. I mean, look at your lives. I I look it over some of you and and you know what? You're trophies of God's grace. You sit here, you have a good home, husband, wife, and God's been good to you, and you have to give him the glory. If you'd went your way, you'd be in a mess right now. Your life would be upended and destroyed and utterly devastated. But look what God's done. Look what good things the Lord has done. And we want a generation to come to know that, that He's the reason for all of that. It's His goodness. Oh, there's a reason to speak up and tell all that the Lord has done. We got a command to do it. There's a generation that needs it. And I believe the blessings of God are upon it when we're obedient and point to the Lord. I hope that our desire as individuals, as Christians , you know, one of these days we're all going to be a memory of some sort. It's just the reality. We're all going to be a memory. And I'll tell you what kind of memory we ought to want to be is a memory of someone who loved and lived for the Lord. And when when when generations to come look back, they say , He loved God. She loved the Lord. They served the Lord. They walked with God. May the Lord help us to do that. I know our church isn't filled with children at this point. We're believing God for that. But there are precious children that walk these pews or these not pews, they walk these aisles. Some walk the pews, but most of them walk the aisles. They walk these aisles and I'll tell you what they're doing. They're watching your lives. They're listening to your conversations. They're seeing how you conduct yourself. And they're forming an opinion of the Lord God by what they see in you. May they see something real. May they see something worth imitating. Oh, may the Lord help us. May the Lord help us. Let's stand again, please.