I I don't know about you, but it just thrills my heart to hear of what God does anywhere. And uh when the Lord's working it's it's encouraging. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to the book of Daniel Chapter number four. I would encourage you at some point to read the entire chapter. But Daniel chapter number four is the testimony of Nebuchadnezzar. When you read it, it's quite fascinating, really. It's interesting to me. When I read about what Nebuchadnezzar had to say , now I'm going to preach what the Lord's put in my heart, but I will say this. I anticipate see a Nebuchadnezzar one day. Now you don't have to agree, that's fine. I don't that doesn't bother me. But uh I do believe he made some statements here that says he knew the Lord. And uh he learned some things, sort of the hard way. And by the way, the things you learn the hard way, you learn, don't you? I think many of us can speak from experience. But I want to look at his testimony, and I want us to just think about some things that Nebuchadnezzar learned. I'm not going to read the whole chapter. In fact, I think I'll just read the first three verses. If you found your place, would you stand with me and we'll read these three verses together? Nebuchadnezzar the king, unto all people, nations, and languages that dwell in all the earth. Peace be multiplied unto you. I thought it good to show the signs and wonders that the high God hath wrought toward me. How great are his signs, and how mighty are his wonders. His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion is from generation to generation. In verse 4, he starts this, I Nebuchadnezzar, and he starts to tell his story. Heavenly Father, help us, we pray, and undertake, you know the need, work in every heart, be glorified in this place. Hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. And Lord, I'll thank you and praise you for all that you do, for we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said , Amen. You can be seated What you have before you is a record of God's dealing with the most powerful man of his time. Nebuchadnezzar was not some little regional tribal king. He wasn't just some out-of-the-way backwoods Leader of a handful of people. He led perhaps one of the greatest empires that had ever been built on this planet. Although his rule came near the end of the Babylonian Empire , he still had great power. And it's interesting when he gives his testimony That he does so. Look at it in verse number one. He says to all people, nations, languages that dwell in all the earth. He wanted everybody to know what God had done for him and what God had done in his life. Nebuchadnezzar. Of course, uh would have led during the days of Daniel. We know that. One of the men that Daniel served under and during the time period of would have been this Nebuchadnezzar. You've got to remember something about Daniel. Daniel's a Jewish exile living as a servant or a slave in a land that was not his home. This was not the most appropriate environment to live for God, but Daniel lived for God. Daniel lived for God when all of the odds were against him. Daniel lived for God. when all of uh literally it seems the majority did not. It struck me as I read about the thousands that would fall on their knees before this great image And only a handful would stand up and say, we're not going to bow. So it tells me that the circumstances don't have to be just right for me to do right. I can do right regardless. But in light of what's coming in a few days, and you know what's coming, in a few days we're going to choose a leader and All of it'll be done and over before you know it. I want you to learn some things that Nebuchadnezzar learned. There are things that I believe are absolutely critical, number one, for your spiritual stability I'm glad that I have a Bible that brings stability to my times. If all I had was the feelings that I have coursing through my heart and mind at times, I would be in trouble. As would you. Oftentimes we get to the place we feel like, what's the use? Or we might get to the place we feel like, oh no, and and and and this can't be, or whatever. And and we might feel despair. But the reality is I've got a Bible that tells me to do otherwise. So I want you to think with me tonight about these lessons that old Nebuchadnezzar learned He learned them, and I believe again that it'll help us with our spiritual stability. Somebody said, I believe it will also help us with our mental sanity. We need help there sometimes. Amen. I'm glad the Bible's true regardless of what these two eyes see. The Bible's true. The Word of God can be depended on when nothing else can, my friend, Brother Bell. uh flies plane there. He's he he was flying the other night from somewhere down in Massachusetts. They were helping a church get started there. And uh someone said, uh I didn't know you you flew at night and he said, Yeah, I've I've got my instrument rating and So I I fly at night and and I remember back when he first started working on that. And he said that uh the uh man who was his instructor said now Uh Todd, you're going to have to learn to trust your instruments. Because he said you're going to get up there and he said you might fly fly into a fog bank or fly into the clouds. And he said, your mind is going to play tricks on you. And he said, you may think that you're upside down when you're right side up. And he said, the only way you're going to know is if you trust your instruments. Your instruments won't lie. And he said the biggest thing you're going to have a challenge doing is telling yourself everything's okay when it don't feel okay. He said the first time that he flew into a fog bank, he said instantly he had never had vertigo or anything like that before But he said he got so dizzy because there was nothing stable to lock your eyes on, and he said, I I felt as if we were inverted He said, I immediately grabbed the controls of the plane and started to turn. And he said, the instructor grabbed my arm and said, Don't look at the instrument. And the instrument said the plane was flying correctly. He said it took a while for his mind to settle down his stomach to follow suit because it seemed like it was the other way around. I'm going to tell you something. There are times in this life that it seems like things are the other way around. It sure seems like at times that evils went in the day. It seems like at times that that truth is on the losing side, but I've got news for you. I've got an instrument, and it tells me the truth. It tells me the reality of how things are, and I'm glad we're on the winning side, according to the precious word of God. Nebuchadnezzar learned some stuff. I want you to make notes or just get this in your mind somehow, your heart. But number one, I want you to notice that Nebuchadnezzar learned there is one who rules forever. One who rules forever. In verse number three, he talks about the great signs, the mighty wonders, and here's what he said. His kingdom, not my kingdom, his kingdom. is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion is from generation to generation. Now God had told Nebuchadnezzar some things about things to come. He had revealed to him some things. In fact, uh even previously he had been told about some some empires and rising. rulers and leaders that would come down the line. And he began to realize that he was just a speck on the radar of time. And that he was just, his kingdom had a beginning, it had an ending, it had an expiration date But as he contemplated what he learned in this experience, and you know the experience where uh God made him lose his understanding, he became like an animal, lived for seven years in that state, and then God restored his understanding. But he learned during that time that there is a kingdom that has no expiry date. There is a ruler, there is one who's in authority that will never give up the throne, he will never step aside, he'll never be voted out, he'll never be replaced There is one kingdom that will last forever. One ruler In the grand scheme of things, today is not even a speck in light of eternity. It's really not. That's a big deal to us because we're living it. We're right here in the middle of it. You and I say, but preacher, I I mean everything could change here in a few days. Yeah, everything could change here in a few days. You say, but preacher, I I mean this if if this goes bad, things could get bad. Well, I agree. I've I've got my feelings about this whole thing, too. And uh I'm just glad I'm on on this end of things, personally. But but the reality of all of this is there is one kingdom that'll last forever. There is one who rules and one who reigns. And can I just say this? No matter what happens, God will still be on the throne. And my spiritual stability is not tied to such a shallow things a thing as elections. Politics, presidents, etcetera. Not tied to that. Because when I get up on Wednesday morning, regardless of what uh happens through the night. When I get up on Wednesday morning, my Bible will still be true. And my God will still answer prayer. And my soul will still be saved and washed in the blood of the Lamb. There is only one kingdom that'll last forever. Nebuchadnezzar learned that. By the way, that's a hard lesson for him to learn. He's at the end of an ancient empire. In fact, it's believed that that empire had lasted some 700 years. Nebuchadnezzar was the longest reigning king. He had reigned or would reign for 43 years. That was an incredible span for a ruler in that day. But he also understood, I'll have an end. Daniel lived to see the end of this empire. Daniel lived to experience the conclusion of an empire and the birth of another. Daniel had the opportunity to see God rearrange the whole uh playing field as far as political affairs are concerned, but there's one thing that set was settled in his heart And of course, I believe it got settled in Nebuchadnezzar's heart that it is God who rules above all and forever will. Forever will. So there's one who rules forever. Number two. I believe the second lesson he learned is stated in verse number 17. The Bible says this, this matter is by the decree of the watchers and the demand by the word of the Holy Ones. To the intent that the living may know that the Most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will, and setteth up over it the basis of men. Now, that's Nebuchadnezzar talking. You say, what did he learn? Well, not only did he learn that there is one who rules forever, but he learned that there is one who rules In the affairs of men. There's one who rules in the affairs of men. Notice what he said: the Most High ruleth in the kingdom of men. You know what happens to men in power? They think they're in charge. The great men of the earth think I'm running this thing. Nebuchadnezzar, go down a little bit there in verse 29. It says, At the end of twelve months , He walked in the palace of the kingdom of Glablin. Now I wish I had time. I'm not going to take it tonight. It's not my intent But the kingdom, or the palace, rather, there in Babylon was a sight to behold. I don't think we've built an equal anywhere on this planet. And when he walked through these great halls and looked at all the wonders around him, he's overcome with a sense of the power that he seemingly possesses. He says in verse 30, the king spake and said, Is not this great Babylon? That I have built for the house of the kingdom by the might of my power and for the honor of my majesty? Boy, he sounds pretty proud of himself, don't he? He said, Look at all of this I've done. Look at all of this power I have. Look at all of this uh this these great things that I've accomplished and and how I'm ruling a vast empire, one of the great empires of the world. And and and he had even been given some insight as as to the uh influence of this of this empire and and how it was like a great tree that cast a shadow and provided and protected so many. And and and he began to boast in that power. And then what happened? In that moment, God took his understanding. In that moment. And this great this great leader, and I don't doubt he was a great leader, but in this moment, that great leader Went from from from ruling in the kingdom to running in the fields like an animal And they drove him out. It said the king's lost his mind. And they drove him out, and they drove him out into the uh into the forest and into the fields. And he began to live and eat grass and and act just like a wild animal in a moment of time. And after seven years God returned his senses and he said, You know what? God rules in the affairs of men. There is a God who rules in the affairs of men. Listen, don't forget that those who rule over men are ruled by one. God 's still God. Nebuchadnezzar could boast of his great power and boast of his great wealth and boast of his great abilities. But at the end of the day he learned, he learned that God is the one who rules in the affairs of men. In other words, life doesn't happen by chance. If you're not mad at me already, I may throw this out and the rest of you will be. I don't believe in luck. People say, well, I I hope you have good luck. You know I thought about that a lot. I I have a good God. But luck and chance are not a part of our vocabulary as Bible believers. The reality is that God rules in the affairs of men. I think sometimes we're more superstitious than we are spiritual. You know it I never have figured this one out. You tell me how a rabbit's foot is lucky. He couldn't even keep it. Oh, what good is it going to do you? Silly, superstitious. And and and uh listen, if we're not careful, we'll be more superstitious than we are spiritual. You say, What do I mean? Here's what I mean: that God rules in the affairs of men. chance and time and all of those things are are are not in the hands of men or not in the hands of uh of countries or not in even the hands of voters. It is a God in heaven. There is a God in heaven who rules in the affairs of men. Our God rules. And God said, Listen, I I'm going to I'm going to show Nebuchadnezzar that the power he has is on loan. It's just on loan. Do you know the opportunity, the position, whatever it may be, is just on loan? And you and I are going to give an account for it. We're not owners, we're stewards. We're stewards of what's been entrusted to us. We don't own anything. It's not my I've uh the Lord's helped me with this a long time you said my church. I don't have my church, it's the Lord's church I have my responsibilities, I have my uh requirements and calling, but but at the end of the day it's all his. I'm just a steward of what he he has, what belongs to him And Nebuchadnezzar had to learn the hard lesson that God rules. Only one rules in the affairs of men. I'm going to tell you something tonight. The devil's not in charge. You m you might think it looks that way, but he's not. He's not in charge. He's not ruling in the You say then, tell me why things are so wicked. I'll tell you why, because man's made some choices that have consequences that have brought us to this place, but God is still ruling in the affairs of men. Everything's happening like he said it would. The Word of God is unfolding. The Bible's being played out right in front of your eyes and mine. There is one who rules in the affairs of men. And Nebuchadnezzar, boasting one moment, humbled the next, says, wait a minute. God does rule. When his sanity was restored, the reality dawned upon him, I'm not as in charge as I like to think I am. By the way, I think everybody's got a little bit of control freak in 'em. And and you know the the really what what does it boil down to? We we're just not in charge. We just w we don't have control. I've told you this, I I don't ride with a lot of people. I uh you say I don't ride with anybody, but I can't say it anymore. 'Cause I have a time or two now. And but but I normally don't like to ride with anybody. There's some I could name by name. I do not like to ride. I w I won't if I can't help it. And But you know, I I've often thought, why is that? I'll tell you why. Because the steering wheel's not in my hands. Elizabeth's dad was riding with me one day and we got off the exit, is it 27 in Candler? And it's a big long windy exit, just a big curve. And I don't know what got into him. I guess he thought I wasn't paying attention or whatever, but I got too close to h to his liking to to the white line there on the on the interstate. Man , just a few minutes that big hand grabbed the steering wheel and shot us over. And I looked at him and I didn't know what to do, but just let him drive. I took my hands off the wheel and He's driving it. He's get a hold of that. Get that thing back. He did not like not being in control. Most of us don't But every once in a while, God, through circumstances, will show you you're not in control. I'm not in control. There is one who rules in the affairs of men. Look at proud, look at proud Haman. Strutting the palace. Oh, the king's gonna honor me. Oh, I'm gonna put an end to these pesky Jews Mordecai and the like are all going to die before the sun sets on another day, and I'm going to be the happiest man around. Little did he know. He would soon swing on the gallows that he built for Mordecai. You know why? Because there's one who rules in the affairs of men. Mordecai wa or uh Haman wasn't in charge. God is. Number three, I want you to notice in our same text: not only is there one who rules forever, and there's one who rules in the affairs of men. But there is one who appoints rulers over men. Notice what it says here, and giveth it that Place of r leadership or ruling, and giveth it to whomsoever he will. He will. I don't want to be misunderstood here, okay? I think we have one of the rare privileges that are afforded people on this planet, and that privilege is the vote. Not a lot of people get that privilege. I mean in the grand scheme of the world, even if they do vote, they know it means nothing. And we've got the privilege to exercise that that that that right, if you will, as a citizen, that that freedom to be able to vote. And I'm just going to say this, vote all that you can. Vote Bible convictions. Get out and vote. If you don't vote, keep your mouth closed when the outcome comes out. Because you don't have a right to say anything But at the end of the day. And you say, how do you justify this? Well just hold on a minute and I'll try. But at the end of the day, no matter, no matter No matter, it is God who appoints rulers. Well you say, well, preacher, I should just lay back and just and just let God appoint them. Well, you're not being responsible. Because you are accountable and you've got a privilege and you ought to exercise it. And be involved and vote. But once again, don't get too bent out of shape when things don't go the way you think they should, because God is the one who appoints the leaders. Go over here in Daniel 2. Would you? Daniel 2. Look at verse 19. Daniel chapter 2, verse 19. Then was the secret revealed unto Daniel in a night vision. Then Daniel blessed the God of heaven. Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, for wisdom and might are his. Now look at this, and he changeth the times and the seasons. You know who's in charge of that? The Lord is. That's why I believe uh global warming being man induced is a fallacy. I really do. God changes times and seasons. He's all right, I I don't know if I believe that. You're not intelligent enough to understand. Well, pray for me. But I I am uh intelligent enough to know my Bible's true. And it is God who changes times and seasons. He's the one in charge of that thing. And so he being in charge of that thing, not only does he change times and seasons, but he removeth kings. And setteth up kings. He giveth wisdom unto the wise and knowledge to them that know understanding. In other words, he's the one who orchestrates the leadership of the earth In other words, he's the one who appoints the rulers over men. Now God has a purpose in that. Probably one of the hardest things to swallow is the reality that God has a purpose for wicked leaders. Nebuchadnezzar, by all definitions up to this point, was a wicked leader. He was a he was he was uh just like the rest of the Babylonian mindset and culture and a great mover among that crowd and so he was a very wicked leader, but God had a purpose. What was God's purpose? To glorify his great name? I believe in the conversion and transformation of this man And God raised him to a platform where all the world can see that there's a God in heaven who can take a king off the highest throne make him an animal in the field and raise him back up, give glory to God, and say, God changes men's hearts. God can do that. God's got a purpose. Don't forget that, church. God has a purpose. Whatever the outcome may be in a few days, God will have a purpose for it, and I have a responsibility accordingly. You say, what is it? Pray. My Bible instructs me to pray for those that are in authority. I gotta pray for them. I have a responsibility to pray and to pray for God to work in their hearts and lives so that we might lead a quiet and peaceable life. I've got a responsibility to pray for those that are in charge. Know this, God has a purpose in the rulers that He appoints. He does these things on purpose. I don't believe no man has a position of great power that has not been entrusted that by the Lord for a reason. Because God's putting things together. There's going to come a time when the man of sin will come to a great place of power. This world's going to undergo such a change you you would never dream possible. But I want to remind you, God still has a purpose. God is still going to be in charge. And just when the man of sin thinks that he can bring down God from heaven, all our Lord is going to do is speak a word and the blood's going to flow. You know why? Because our God is a very powerful God. Number four. Not only do I believe Nebuchadnezzar learned that there's one who rules forever, and there's one who rules in the affairs of men, and there's one who appoints the rulers of men. But there is one who can get a hold of anyone and change their life. There is one who can get a hold of anyone and change their life. Do you notice what he said? Go back there with me to chapter 4. And again, this is Nebuchadnezzar speaking, and he says this in verse 17, the last phrase, and setteth up over it the basest of men. Wait a minute. Aren't you the fellow that just said, this is great Babylon that I have built? This is that great kingdom, and my might and glory can be seen. And now he's saying, but God puts base men in high places. I'd never really seen that before until I was studying this chapter and realized that Nebuchadnezzar was saying, I'm the lowest of the low, that God let rule in a place high. You know what he's saying? He's saying, hey, God's done something in my life. He's changed my heart. Look over here with me at verse number 34. We come to the end of Nebuchadnezzar's experience here. And here's what the Bible records about it. And at the end of the days I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up mine eyes into heaven, and mine understanding returned unto me, and I blessed the Most High. And I praised and honored him that liveth forever, whose dominion is the everlasting dominion, and his kingdom is from generation to generation. And all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. And he doeth according to his will in the army of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth. And none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? At the same time my reason returned unto me, and for the glory of my kingdom, mine honor and brightness returned unto me. And my counselors and my lords fought unto me, and I was established in my kingdom, and excellent majesty was added unto me. Now look at verse 37. Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of heaven. All whose works are truth and his ways are judgment, and those that walk in pride he's able to abase. You know what he said? God can get a hold of anybody. Here's a man that crowed of great power, who got brought very low and then recognized God did that. And God can get a hold of anybody. You say, preacher, I I just don't know about that crowd in Washington. Is there any hope for them? As long as there's somebody down there pointing them to Jesus, there is. And by the way, we support one who is, and there's a whole bunch of others who are, and they're telling them about Christ, and they're pointing Listen, don't believe for a minute that the devil's got the whole crowd. He don't. Fact is, he thinks he's got the whole crowd everywhere, but he don't. God has his people. God has his people. Just when it seems the darkest of the night, and you don't think uh it could get any worse. I think of the early church under the persecution of Saul, and those were very dark days. You think about the widows, the problem they had with the widows, you know why they had that problem? So many Christian men were being killed. One of the reasons there was such a great number of widows to care for is because of the great persecution that was pulling men off the scene and putting them in the grave. It was a terrible dark hour, and yet at the darkest hour the chief persecutor gets born again on the road to Damascus. You know why? God can save anybody. God can reach anybody, anywhere, anytime, any way he chooses, because he's the Lord. Nebuchadnezzar, that proud, boastful, wicked king. Now takes those lips that once praised false gods and says, I extol the King of Heaven. He did it not only, I believe, with a bended knee, but he did it with a broken heart, who had been humbled before the Lord. So you keep in mind here in a few days when everything comes out in the wash. You remember there is one who rules forever. There is a kingdom that lasts forever. America's got an expiry date. I don't know what it is, but I believe it's got one. But I'm glad the kingdom I'm a citizen of is eternal in the heavens. Don't fade away. It's forever. There's one who rules in the affairs of men. The devil's not unleashed, to do as he pleases. There's one who appoints rulers over men. And there is one who can get a hold of anybody. I know this, come what may, Jesus will still be Lord. Souls will still need to be saved. That's key. People will still need the Lord. And you will still have a purpose. You say, What's my purpose? Point people to Him. Point people to him. Father, help us tonight. You know, O Lord, the hour in which we live