You don't have to worry about the preacher getting mad unless you don't mind the Lord. As long as you mind him, all's well. That was good and encouragement. I appreciate that. I hope you'll excuse me this evening for detouring again away from the revelation. My heart is still burdened about Calvary, and I think we need to visit that place once more. As we are looking forward to celebrating the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. We can't celebrate a resurrection without there first being a crucifixion. I want you to take your Bibles tonight, please, and turn with me to Luke chapter number 22. Luke chapter number twenty-two, and I want to read one verse this evening. It's verse number forty-four. There's a word that is used to describe what Jesus encountered as he faced the cross. And I believe Bible words are the best words to use to describe anything in relation to the Lord Jesus. Oftentimes we think our words might be better, but these are inspired words. These are God's words. And so in Luke 22, 44, the Bible says, and being in an What's that next word? Agony. He prayed more earnestly. And his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground. I want you to think with me tonight about the agony of the Lord. The agony of the Lord. Father, I pray that you would take your word now and just speak to our hearts. Thank you for the privilege that we have to read it publicly, to read it collectively. Lord, we appreciate the great freedom that we have to carry in our hands your word. We thank you, Lord, for the privilege that we have to meet here without fear. We ask, O Lord, that you would do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. And help us to see things, Lord, that only the Spirit of God can teach us. Hide me behind the cross, dear Father, and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. For it's in his mighty name we pray. And God's people said. Amen. I want you to look with me again at this word agony. He being in an agony. If we could take one Bible word and write it over the last days of the Lord on the earth, it would have to be the word agony. Now, when you think about the time of year that we celebrate, often on these special days we forget the reality of what led us to them. The reality that these were dark days for our dear Lord. Although the resurrection morning was such a joyous morning and a glorious morning. The preceding days were days that can only be described as days of agony. Agony for the Lord. Webster's 1828 defines the word agony as extreme pain, both physical and mental. Easton's Bible Dictionary says Agony, pardon me, as it's used in the Bible , speaks of a contest. A wrestling, a severe struggling with pain and suffering Those last days of our Lord were days of great conflict. They were days where there was suffering. There was strain. We read it here already. I'd like to walk through a few of those moments and look at the agony that the Lord encountered. I want you to think with me for a moment about the agony in the garden. In the garden of Gethsemane, our Lord, the Bible says, prayed there. He prayed eventually alone. He kept pleading with the disciples to watch and pray with him. But the Bible says, because of sorrow, they slept. I often want to find fault with them, but I find the the very finger that I want to point at them has three siblings that point back at me. And I'm reminded that had I been there, I too would have been likely in the same boat or worse. They were sleeping for sorrow. Their hearts were broken over what lay ahead. They are their minds no doubt were reeling over what they'd been told. I'm going to die, you can't go where I'm going. I'm going to be put on a cross, I'm going to be crucified. I'm departing, I'm leaving, and being overwhelmed with the sorrow of all of that. They just slept while the Lord Jesus prayed. And the Bible says that while he prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane, that his sweat became, as it were, great drops of blood. So intense was the agony that his soul experienced, that those vessels rose to the surface near where his sweat glands were, and began to rupture from the weight of what he was carrying, and his s his blood began to mingle with the sweat that fell from his body. He was in agony You say, preacher, what was he agonizing over in the Garden of Gethsemane? What was he wrestling with? What was he struggling with? You stop and think about the very righteous Son of God, this pure, spotless Lamb of God, was getting ready to become sin. He was preparing to go to the cross and taste the very wrath of God for the sin of the whole world. There was an agony that he endured in the Garden of Gethsemane. You see him there as he falls to the ground, bends in prayer and cries out, Oh Father. If thou be willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. The agony of Gethsemane We move from Gethsemane and just mere moments following his prayer. We see a second agony begin to unfold, and that's the agony of betrayal. Look in verse number 48, as Judas approaches, and Jesus said unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son of Man with a kiss? You think about the agony of betrayal. Here is a man known from the beginning to be a traitor. He was known by our Lord from the beginning to be that one who was with them, but not of them. And yet here he approaches our Lord and betrays him with a kiss. There's agony in that. There was an agony in the heart, no doubt, of our Lord, as he as he calls him. In fact, one of our gospel records, he's called friend. The compassionate Lord calls the traitor friend. I don't know about you, but God's got a heart that's immeasurably big. The compassion of our Lord goes beyond what my little mind can comprehend. And the agony of this betrayal. On the heels of the betrayal comes the agony of denial. Look in verse number 61. Peter has now denied his Lord. Peter, the bold defender, Peter the man who said, Lord, if every man betrays you, every man leaves you, I'll die for you. In fact, he had such intensity in that statement that he was willing to lop the ear off of a man In defense of his Lord, and I personally don't believe that he was aiming for ears. I believe he was aiming for heads. And just the mercy of God and maybe an angel's hand said, Mm, that sword's gonna That'll get you in more trouble when you can get out of right now. I'm going to just sort of you can get an ear, Peter. I'm going to let you be satisfied with an ear, not a head. But now three times I don't know who he is. I don't know who he is And verse 61 of Luke 22, the Bible says, And the Lord turned. You ever notice this? And looked upon Peter. You know what that was a look of? A look of agony. If you'll let me say it like this, here's the best man he's got. Here's the best man he's got. You say, how do you know he's the best man that he's got? He chose him to be the spokesman after this is all over. Here's the best man that he's got, and the best man that he's got denies him. And the Lord looks at him. You you have you ever disappointed somebody? Sure. I I remember doing something very specific. You say what'd you do? None of your business. But I remember doing something very specific that disappointed my father. I wished he had taken his belt off and lit me up. But he didn't. He did something a whole lot worse. He looked at me with disappointment. And man, I I'll tell you, I I'll I'll remember that look as long as I live. I would have rather gotten ten spankins, a hundred. Than for him to look at me like he looked at me when I did what I did. It was a look of disappointment. Don't you know when the Lord looked at Peter, it was a look of disappointment? The Bible says Peter remembered the word of the Lord how he had said unto him before the cock crow, Thou shalt deny me thrice. And Peter went out and wept bitterly. The agony of denial. Have you noticed that all of this comes in rapid succession? It's one heartbreaking thing after the other, one heartbreaking thing after the other, one after the other, the agony. The agony is compounded, starting in the garden and going forward. What about the agony of the counsel that he faced? Luke 22, 66 says, and as soon as it was day. The elders of the people and the chief priest and the scribes came together and led him into their council, saying, Art thou the Christ? Here was the religious elite, here were the who's-whoos and the and the and the what -wats of that day, here are men who knew who knew the law, they knew the word of God. If anybody should have recognized him, it should have been that crowd. And yet their question said, Art thou the Christ? And notice when our Lord began to answer them, it says that if I tell you, ye will not believe. Tim read the scripture or mentioned it, he came unto his own, and his own received him not Can you imagine the agony of being before the very people that should recognize who you are? Because they've got this. They're the guardians of the Bible They're the ones through whom God gave us the Word of God. And they of all people should have recognized it's Him. They should have recognized the I am. They should have been able to see that, yes, that is the Lord. This is the promised Messiah. And now He stands in their counsel. And as he stands in their council, he says, If I tell you, you will not believe. You've already made up your mind, the agony of the council. These men were blindly mad. Opposing the very word they thought they would defend. Religion has a subtle way of blinding man's eyes Religion has a very subtle way of making you dead to reality. Don't think for a minute that it's just a Jewish problem, it's a human problem. And if we're not careful, we can sit in an independent, fundamental, Bible-believing, sin-hating, uh, you know, truth-preaching church, and we can get religious on the pews of a church like this. And we can grow just as blind as they so that we cannot see the reality as it stands right before our eyes. And here he stands in their council. And these these men of the law, these scribes, these individuals who were students of the word, memorizing and knowing and and dissecting the word of God said, Are you the Christ? The agony of this council. I don't know that this council did not break his heart, perhaps more than the others. Because they refuse to believe. You think about what he said about Jerusalem as he wept over it. He said, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children? We're told that he said, like a hen gathers her chicks. That's the way he wanted to gather these people, and yet he stands before them, and they don't even know him. I wonder if that's not what's pictured back yonder in the Old Testament when Joseph stood before his brothers. And those brothers who should have known Joseph looked at him as if he was a stranger. And as Joseph began to make himself known, they're in shock that this is Joseph, they don't even recognize him. And Joseph begins to weep and he puts everybody out because his heart's so broken over the fact that his own flesh and blood don't know him. And I imagine our Lord felt no less agony when he stood before his very own, and his own received him not. The agony of the council, and then he moves from that council to a trial, a mock trial And in Luke chapter 23, verses 2 and 3, it says, they began to accuse him, saying, We have found this fellow perverting the nation and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, saying that he himself is Christ a king. And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the king of the Jews? And he answered and said, Thou sayest it. Think about the agony of this mock trial. As Jesus is taken before back boneless Pilate, the hatred of this mob grows to the point that they're lying and telling lies about him. By the way, Jesus paid his taxes. Remember, we're told that in the Word of God. He gave his tribute to Caesar. He said, what Caesar's is Caesar's. You remember in that miraculous catch, he pulled up the fish, and in his mouth was that coin that allowed him to pay his and Peter's taxes. But this mob has such a hatred for him and such an agony or such an anger that no doubt is filling his heart with agony. On to Herod he goes. Pilate tries to put him off. Pilate was that indecisive, backboneess leader who's always testing the wind. And so Herod is an opportune time person. Let him deal with this. So he shoes him off to Herod. And Herod, being the wicked, perverted man that he was. begins to question the Lord Jesus and then commands his men, we're told, to robe him and to bow before him and to smite him and to mock worship him and say, Hail, King of the Jews. Imagine the agony of this whole affair. Here's the God who gave those men life. And with the breath he put in their lungs, they curse his name. With the variability he put in their bodies, they spit back on him. You know, we've been praying for a dear lady, Sister Nisley's mother down in Virginia, who had double lung transplant. How encouraging it was to hear today, Brother Rick, her husband, put a picture of her up and there she sat, no oxygen on her front porch. Teaching her grandchildren a new hymn, singing it with them. He says, You never know the value of a deep breath until you can't take one. And oh, what joy they must have as she breathes with these new lungs and is able to take in a fresh and a full breath of air. These men took the very air that God gave them in their lungs and used his name vilely. What kind of agony did that cause? What kind of agony did that bring to the heart of the Savior The one who gave these men life now is standing before them and being treated mercilessly. From there he's quickly taken and he's scourged by Pilate. Luke uses the word chastise We're told in Matthew's gospel that they scourged him. That means that they took that cat of nine-tails and a very skilled, strong Roman soldier. Who uh trained at this and did this very frequently would have beat the Lord Jesus. And would have beat him in such a way that Most men, very in and as far as they're concerned, thankfully died there and didn't have to go through the rest. But our Lord endured it No wonder Isaiah talked about his visage being marred. Our Lord was, you know, a lot of times these painters try to portray the cross as a Romantic experience. But the reality it was gruesome. It's gruesome beyond description. Our Lord was pulverized. Literally pulverized. His body was so scarred and marred and so beaten and I I'm telling you, I I'm sure that to look at him he didn't even look like a human by the time they got through. And you imagine the agony of this scourging? Isaiah said, by his stripes we are healed. But those stripes cut deep. You think about the agony Christ endured. From the scourging he goes to the cross. And in Luke chapter 23 and verse 33, we read it this morning. And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, they crucified him. Imagine the agony of hanging there between heaven and earth. The agony as the soldiers gambled at his feet. The agony as as they mocked him and said, If thou be the Son of God, get thyself down and take us with thee. Even the malefactors joined in in this kind of thing The agony of the cross. He cried these words, I thirst. You think about that. The very fountain of living water Went dry on Calvary and said, I thirst. The agony that he endured Friend, I I don't think that you and I have the ability to really comprehend all that Jesus endured that day. When he hung between heaven and earth a mere spectacle to men mocked by the Jews and the angry mob. Suffering at the hands of wicked men? You and I look at that and we think, why would he endure it? And what must have filled his mind and heart? The Lord Jesus not only suffered physically, but you think about the mental and the spiritual anguish that he endured? You think about all that he encountered there as, well, you read Psalm 22, and Psalm 22 talks about the bulls of the Shannon. How they've encircled me. I personally believe that he's making a spiritual reference to perhaps uh forces of power, the demons of the dark that encircled him, and no doubt Glee with glee that he was dying on the cross. They looked at the Lord Jesus. No doubt the devil himself rejoiced. that now he's dying, the Prince of Life will soon lay down his life. He will soon be dead. Don't you know the powers of hell marshalled together? and marched back and forth with great gladness that now this one who chased them out of out of people and this one who commanded them into the pigs and this one that ruled over them on the earth is now breathing his last breath. You imagine the agony of being God and man knowing full well everything that's happening? He's able to see all that's happening in the spiritual world as well as the physical world. I do not believe Jesus surrendered any of his deity when he robed himself in humanity. He remained all God, and yet he was all man. And somehow or another the two perfectly blended in the person of Jesus Christ. And imagine the agony of seeing all that was to come. You think about the sufferings and then the darkness, and I do believe that the greatest expression of agony was uttered when Jesus said these words. My God, my God. Why hast thou forsaken me? Can you imagine the agony, the tearing apart of the fact that here Jesus, the Son of God, has now been forsaken by the Father? The agony of such a thing, the chasm that was created, the tearing apart. Oh, we look at things on such surface levels, but think deep with me tonight. about the agony that the Lord Jesus endured. Think about how is he hung there that that that that that this this this spiritual thing, this battle that's raging there And then the sun refused to shine. The Bible says darkness covered the earth. And it was only pierced by the Lord's last cry, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. And then silence. The agony's over. The gloating mob walks away. He's dead. No doubt Pilate's relieved this is over. The devil's delighting that he's finished so far as he knows or thinks. The agony's over. It was an agonizing few days for our precious Lord. He being in an agony is the best description. Of what happened to him from the betrayal on. So, what are we to learn from all of that? Is there a message in the agony of the Lord? Is there anything beneficial to take from that agony? I believe there is. I believe three things can be seen in the agony of the Lord Jesus in those final days. I believe, number one, that we see the horrifying nature of sin. What caused all this? What brought this agony on? What ushered this time of suffering into the life of the Lord Jesus? One thing: sin. Your sin and mine. You know, we often think about sin and we like to categorize it. We call some sins big sins, we call some sins little sin. God's word just calls it sin. The Bible does not classify sin in a way that mankind does. We say it's a white lie. By the way, there's no colored lies in the Bible. Just a lie. There's no such thing as just a we transgression. In fact, the Bible teaches us here, when we see the agony of the Lord, that sin is horrifying in its nature. When you really stop and think about what did this to him, what caused this, it was not an angry Jewish mob It was not a backboneless, spineless leader named Pilate. It was not a vindictive, evil pervert named Herod. It was the sin that dwells in your heart and in mine. That's what brought this about. The agony of the sufferings of Christ was brought on by sin. Oh, the horrifying nature of sin. Sin caused this horrifying trail of agony. Sin does. We ought to hate it. God help us to. May He help us to see sin for what it is, all of it. But this agony that the Lord Jesus endured paints the picture. This is sin. If you want to see what sin is, you know, oftentimes the devil paints a picture and he makes sin look alluring. He makes it look attractive. Have you ever noticed on these evil, wicked alcohol commercials that everybody there is young, healthy, having fun? They never show the battered women back home. They never show the broken families. They never show the car wrecks with innocent people laying dead on the highway somewhere. They never show all of the damage that this damning drink does to people when they partake. Don't show all of that. It just looks fun. And by the way, that's what the devil wants you to think about all sin, that it's just fun. He wants you to think that there's that you can handle it, you can tame it. Little do you know there's strength in sin that you have no match for. My dad used to raise these work ponies and he let me have one one time and He said, now that one's yours, you've got to take care of it and tend to it. It was smaller than the rest, and I thought, well, I can handle it. And we'd keep them shut up in their stalls in the wintertime so they wouldn't tear up the pasture or fall and get hurt And every spring we would s let him out and go open the thing, and my dad warned me, he said, Now son, that that uh that horse is gonna want to get out of there, and you better be careful. Oh Dad, I got this, you know And I went down there and the last thing I remember is that latch being raised on that door. Next thing I know, I'm waking up and I'm looking at the blue sky. Smokey had come out of that stall so fast she knocked that door that door hit me in the face, knocked me ice cold out on the pasture, and I just laid there. I don't know how long I laid there, she's over there eating grass I was over here, you know, I don't know, chasing butterflies. I don't want to did. But all I know is that I could not handle what I thought I could. Please listen to me, young or old. Sin 's like a wild horse. You put a lasso on it and think you can hold it, you got another thing coming. And sin is no laughing or playing matter. Isn't it a strange thing that we live in a culture where we're entertained by the sins of others? Do you realize that the majority of what's played on television is just a replay of sin? It's just a playing out of sinful scenarios. And here we sit in our living rooms and we laugh at the evil, the very evil that nailed Jesus to the cross, the very evil that that brought the agonies of Calvary in these days to pass Oh, may the Lord help us to see sin for what it is. Sin is not just a mistake, it's a wrong against God. Sin is not just an oops or a slip. It's an offense to a holy God. And if you want to know what God thinks about sin, look at what he did to his son for it. When he lived on this earth those last few days and died on Calvary. That's what God thinks about sin. But not only do I see in the agonies of the Lord the horrifying nature of sin. And not to repreach this morning's message, but I do see this as well. I see the immense love of God. The immense love of God. What else Would make him endure that. We know, as we studied this morning, 1 John 3 16, hereby perceive we the love of God. Because he laid down his life for us. We know he did that because he loved us. We know that he went to Calvary because he loved us. We know that he endured the agony because he loved us. What kind of love makes a man go through what he went through? What kind of love? How big and deep and wide must that love be that would make him endure such agony? By the way, he had power to stop it in a moment's notice. He had listen, the very first time that one of those guards spit on him, he could have annihilated him with just the mere command of his voice. Every atom in that man's body he could have separated in the dust by just simply speaking. He was God , the very God. Those Roman soldiers who lifted those iron hammers and nails and began to drive them into his hands and feet All he had to do was speak. He created that iron and he could have caused all those molecules just to fall apart and that th it just disintegrated. He could have stopped it like that. He even said that he could call legions of angels from heaven. Can you imagine what fury could have been unleashed had the Lord given the order? That's all he had to do. That's all he had to do. You talk about an army. Whew You talk about a mighty army. We're not talking about some puny little uh little earthly army. We're talking about the armies of heaven We're talking about chariots of fire. We're talking about the angels of God. All he would have had to do, I don't believe he had had to utter a word. All he had to do is give the look I mean, all he had had to do is just simply look to the Father, send them. And I'm telling you, there would have been bloodshed like man had never known had the fury of heaven been unleashed, but he didn't do it. He didn't do it. Well what make him what would make him stay there and endure the agony? What would make him hang there and suffer like he did? What would make him take such a place and do such a thing? I'll tell you, there's only one explanation. The Bible says his great love. His great love kept him on. It wasn't those puny little nails. It wasn't those strong Roman soldiers. It was the love of God shed abroad in his heart for sinners like you and me. I have to stop there and say, Oh, what a Savior. Oh, what a blessed Savior is Jesus, my Lord. How can you not love Him when He's done such a thing for you? Oh, the immense love of God. No wonder it's past telling, it's immeasurable, it's unfathomable. You and I, we don't have the words to express it. If we spend a lifetime trying to tell it, we'll still come short. The love of God is such a deep thing and a real thing and a big thing. that you and I lack the vocabulary, the intelligence, the capabilities. We lack everything when it comes to trying to describe it. But there's something in my heart responds to it. There's something in my heart begins to bow in adoration and say, Oh Lord, I don't know why you love me, but I sure appreciate it I'm thankful that you'd love a sinner like me and love me the way you do. Oh, bless his wonderful name for the immense love of God that we see as he endured this agony. I see one final thing. As we look at the agony that he endured, and we consider all that he suffered, On our behalf, oh, how horrifying sin must be. How great must be his love. But thirdly, I want you to see the redeeming power of his precious blood 1 Peter 1, verse 18 says, For as much as you know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers. But with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. Oh, the power of the blood of Jesus Christ! Every sin was paid for on Calvary. Now you stop and think about that. This crowd that wants to tell me some folk can't get saved, they're going to have to read their Bible a little bit more to convince me. This crowd that says there's a certain group of people, there's sins that you can commit. My Bible says that all manner of iniquity can be forgiven, man. You know how that power of the blood of Jesus, the redeeming power of the blood of Jesus, it reaches down, saves the drunkard, the dope addict. Saves the prostitute, saves the most vile offender, and it saves church people too. Because that's the power of the blood of Jesus. The power of the blood of Jesus goes deeper than any stain of sin can go. Thank God for that. When I look at the agonies of the Lord Jesus Christ, I see that he tasted death for every man. I see that his blood. Isaiah talked about him being crushed You know what he thought the illustration is the crushing of a grape. And when that grape is crushed, that juice flows. And and and as that juice, the good, if I can say it like this, the good comes from the crushing. The good comes from the crushing. And as he was crushed on Calvary, as he was crushed in judgment, the good came out of it. What was the good? The good was his blood. The blood that he shed redeemed the man lost men and women. That blood that he shed cleanses us from every stain. Don't think for a minute that you've got a sin that the blood don't answer to. Listen, the blood answers for the sins of every man. The blood of Jesus Christ can cleanse every sin stain away. I saw the other day they've come out with something new. And here I've done forgot it. I wanted to remember it because I wanted to use it and see if it worked. Anyway, whatever it was called You know, I wasn't this way until I come to Marinatha. I once had a good memory. I'm not blaming it on you, I'm just associating there's something happened But this stuff they said there's nothing it can't clean. Man, they showed this and they showed that, you know And uh I I thought, man, if if that's the case, that's a miracle working cleaner. It it it and and I mean they used they put a they put a bunch of this uh uh tar on a hundred thousand dollar car, they said. Covered the hood with tar. Let it set in the sun and bake. Then they sprayed this stuff and they magically wiped it off and I'm not even sure it's the same car. It looked like a better car than what was there in the first picture, you know the trickery of of advertisements. But they taught it had such power to cleanse That that there was nothing you couldn't use it on. They said it's even so gentle they took a piece of duct tape and they put it on a on a uh um Kleenex And they sprayed that Kleenex and they pulled that duct now. You know how duct tape when I was growing up we called it hundred mile an hour tape. Because you could put a fender on and go a hundred miles an hour and that rascal would stay, because that duct tape sticks so well But they took that and they sprayed Charlie the back of that that uh Kleenex and pulled that duct tape off and allegedly that they never tore that Kleenex. That Kleenex looked like it was it was before they ever stuck it to it Oh, that's yeah, that's what I thought. I hope I can remember it because I really want to try it, I'm telling you. Maybe I'll see the commercial again. But here's my point. They bragged and they bragged and they bragged about its ability. There's nothing you can't clean with it. It's safe on everything. It'll take everything off. And I got to thinking about that this evening. I got to thinking about the reality. There's something better. There's something stronger. There's something that can take not only the stain, but it can deal with the conscience that's been marred by the stain of sin and make it brand new. What is it? It's the blood of Jesus Christ. My friend, listen, there's not a sin that's marked a man or woman, boy or girl, that the blood can't wash it away. He can make you brand new. You're listening or you're in this uh building tonight and you've never been saved, you say I'm too bad, gone too far, done too much. You just hear me and hear me well. The blood of Jesus Christ can put your sin away. His blood can make you brand new. His blood can redeem you. His blood has power. Nothing else can. People talk about these folks that don't know the Bible talk about baptism washing their sins away You get in that baptismal pool and you're lost, you'll come out of it lost. You'll go in there a dirty center, dry, you'll come out a wet center. It's not going to put your sin away. There's nothing that can remove that stain or change that heart or fix that conscience That you can do outwardly. But when the blood of Jesus Christ is applied, it not only washes away the stain, it makes the heart brand new. Listen, my friend, thank God for the redeeming power of the blood of Jesus. And when you see him crushed on Calvary, know this. It was for your sin and because of your sin. But thank God it's the remedy for your sin as well. It's the remedy. Uh you say, well, preacher, I can't forget. Oh, how the devil uses our past Oh how he haunts us. Says you remember? Isn't it strange the most odd times he'll bring those things up I've stood to preach the Bible and the devil bring up something in the past, and you think, My Lord, where did that come from? I'm telling you, he's evil that way, he's wicked that way. But know this. There's not one thing you've done. There's not one place you've been. There's not one thing you've took part in that his blood's not the remedy. His blood, my friend, if you're saved by grace, it's under the blood, thank God. It's washed by the blood, it's removed by the blood. You might remember it, but God don't, and He's the one that matters. He's all that matters And I'm glad one day he's going to put it out of my mind too. And hallelujah, we'll be home in heaven, thanking God, for the redeeming power of the blood of Jesus. Can you hear the Savior say tonight, it is finished, the agony's over, the storm is past, sin 's been answered for. And salvation awaits. I want you to know something. Salvation is free, but it's not cheap We often associate free things with cheap. Or cheap things being poorly built. Know this. Salvation's the most free thing you've ever known. There's not a thing you can do to obtain it. You can't work to earn it. It's a gift from God. It's the real, it's the only true gift from anyone or anything. It's that gift. And God gives it freely. But don't think for a minute, just because it's free. It's cheap. Cost him everything. Cost him everything. And he gladly paid it. Because he loves you. I don't know why a man wouldn't want to follow somebody like that. I don't know why we stay at odds with the one who loves us so much. I don't know why you'd go on that road of rebellion to hell when Christ has done such a great thing for your soul. He being in an agony. But thank God when the storm passed and the agony ended The Lord said, I've shed my blood. And my blood will cleanse your sin, not just cover it. It'll cleanse it and wash it away. I wished I could sing, because I'd cut loose about right now and sing what could wash away my sin. Nothing but the blood. Thank God for the precious blood. Never undervalue. What happened 2,000 years ago? Next Lord's Day, if Jesus don't come, we're gonna come here and we're gonna worship the Lord for the resurrection. We're going to praise him, sing about it, talk about it, see a portrayal concerning it. We're going to preach, we're going to praise God that he's alive. But he first had to die. And the real appreciation of the resurrection starts back here at the crucifixion. Because when you realize what he went through to bring us to this glad morning, you begin to appreciate the fact it was all for me. It was all for me. Friend, are you saved? I'm not interested in what church you belong to, what religion you are, what persuasion you're of. Are you saved? Have you been to Calvary and had your sin put away by the blood of Christ? Have you been redeemed, like we just read about? Redeemed? By those by that incorruptible thing, the precious blood of Christ? Can you say with all of your heart, I'm not mine own. I've been bought with the price, the price of the Lord Jesus Christ. I belong to Him. If you can't save that, let me urge you tonight, call upon Jesus. The Baptist Church can't save you, the Methodist Church, the Presbyterian Church, it don't matter what church you fill in the blank, but I'll tell you there's a God in heaven who can, the Lord Jesus will save you. He died for your sin. He was buried. Thank God he rose again the third day. He's alive. He's alive and well. And if you'll call out to him, you'll find him very present. He's a very present help. And he'll save you on the spot. You say, preacher, I'm not at church right now. You listen, I don't know why you'd be listening to W-O-E-L in the beer joint, but you might be. But you might be sitting there with some booze in front of you and you you're you're doing all sorts of things that are ungodly. Hear me, please. Jesus will save you. He'll save you. He delights in saving sinners. He come to die for sinners. He'll save you right where you are. You may be strung out on something and got just enough presence of mind to know that that what I'm telling you is true and God the Holy Ghost is witnessing in your spirit this is true. There on that couch with a needle in your hand, you cry out to him, He'll save you. He's able to save to the uttermost Thank God He'll do it. He'll do it. You might be sitting in church holding the Bible looking pretty and be lost and hellbound. God will save you too. Oh, my dear brothers and sisters, what a precious Savior we have. What a dear Savior. I wouldn't waste what we've got left in life living for anything but Him. Because He's done so much for us. How can I look at that and say, that don't mean nothing to me, when my very salvation depends on what he did? One day when we all get home, Brother Charlie, we won't talk about who we are or what we are. We won't talk about our heritage, our parents, we won't talk about all of our experiences. You know why we'll be there? Him. We're gonna talk about him. We're gonna worship him. He's the reason we're there. He's the only reason we're there. Jesus paid it all, the hymn writer said. All to him I owe. I owe it all to him. And to give him all is not a sacrifice. It's reasonable service. May the Lord help us. As we anticipate his resurrection, spend a few more days lingering around the crucifixion so that we might appreciate thoroughly what Christ did on our behalf. Do you stand with me please? If you need to pray, these altars are open