Would you open your Bible please to Revelation chapter 19? Revelation chapter number 19. And I'd like to read the entire chapter here this evening. Revelation chapter 19, we left off in uh verse number 10 in our last study, which has been several weeks ago. And we're calling this chapter the Prelude to the Grand Finale. This is the Prelude to the Grand Finale. And so as we study this portion of Scripture, I want you to keep that in mind. We are coming quickly to the end. Brother Jerry, I hear that again, so if you want to switch me over to this pulpit mic, I would appreciate that. But in Revelation chapter 19, we are coming, we are coming right to the very end Chapter 20 begins with the millennial reign, and then 21 and 2 introduces us into eternity to come. But in Revelation chapter 19, there are three things going on. In Revelation chapter 19, we read about first the white horse rider. Or excuse me, we see worship in verses 1 to 6. And then in verses 7 to 10, we come to a wedding. And then in verses 11 to 21, we got to deal with this war. And so we're going to look tonight, the Lord helping us at the war that is described here in verses 11 to 21. But let's read the chapter together, please. Revelation chapter 19 and verse 1 says, And after these things, I heard a great voice of much people in heaven saying, Hallelujah. Salvation and glory and honor and power unto the Lord our God. For true and righteous are his judgments For he hath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her hand. And again they said, Hallelujah, and her smoke rose up for ever and ever. And the four and twenty elders and the four beasts fell down and worshipped God that sat on the throne, saying, Amen. Hallelujah. And a voice came out of the throne saying, Praise our God, all ye his servants, and ye that fear him, both small and great. And I heard, as it were, the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunderings, saying, Hallelujah! For the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. Now those six verses describe the worship that will go on prior to the wedding supper, the marriage supper of the Lamb, and prior to that great war. And it reminds us tonight that that worship always precedes God's work. There must be worship. In fact, our daily lives ought to be a reflection of this biblical truth. That we worship before we work. We worship before we do anything. Our worship always is to precede our work. It does the Lord's. And what a scene of worship it is there in heaven. Now we start in verse 7, and notice this: let us be glad and rejoice and give honor to him. For the marriage of the Lamb is come. And his wife hath made herself ready. And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white. For the fine linen is the righteousness of saints. And he saith unto me, right, Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, These are the true sayings of God. And I fell at his feet to worship him, and he said unto me, See thou do it not I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus, worship God, for the testimony of Jesus is the Spirit of prophecy. Now, if I understand the timing of this according to where it's located in the Word of God, we believe that the wedding, this marriage supper of the Lamb, is going to take place During that seven-year tribulation, there's tribulation on earth, but there's jubilation up in heaven. There may be a tribulation taking place down here, but the redeemed are at a wedding. They're at a place of celebration. And that's what we find described here. But now we come to the end of the seven-year tribulation. We come to the the end of time as we know it. And we start beginning in verse number 11 looking at this war that has come. And I want you to notice this. And the very first statement is: I saw heaven opened. Heaven has opened. By the way, every time heaven opens, something's about to happen on earth. You go back and study that statement in the Word of God. When when heaven opens, uh earth better pay attention. And this time she'll have to. This time that it's a necessity because heaven's about to open, and when it opens This great war that we're about to study tonight is going to take place down here below. Now let me just say this before I finish reading this portion. This is the second coming of Jesus Christ. This is the second coming of Jesus Christ. Now, this is differentiated, we believe, from the rapture of the church. In 1 Thessalonians chapter number 4, we are taught That the Bible says that when that trump sounds, the trump of God, the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together to meet the Lord in the air. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. Now this passage of Scripture, heaven's open, and he comes to earth. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, the Bible says the trumpet sounds, and we leave earth, and we go up to be with the Lord in heaven. The first coming is a secret coming. This second coming is an open coming. Everyone will see when he comes down the heavens open. Then notice what it says. Back in verse number eleven. And I saw heaven open, and behold, a white horse, and he that sat upon him was called faithful and true. And in righteousness he doth judge and make war. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns. And he had a name written that no man knew but he himself. And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood. And his name is called the Word of God. And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses clothed in fine linen, white and clean. And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword that with it he should smite the nations. And he shall rule them with a rod of iron. And he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written. King of kings and Lord of Lords. And I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God, that ye may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of captains And the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small and great. And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse and against his army. And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that had received the mark of the beast, and them that worshipped his image. These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone, and the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the horse, which sword proceeded out of his mouth. And all the fowls were filled with their flesh. My what a scene And war is described here in this passage. May the Lord help us tonight and speak to us. Let's bow our heads together and pray. Father, again, we come in Jesus' name. And we acknowledge, O Lord, that we certainly need help from above. Lord, both the preacher and the hearer need help tonight, and I pray that you'd grant it. I ask you, Lord, to do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. Be our teacher. Make these things both real and personal, and Lord, would you help us to be ready for thy coming? Would you stir us as only you can? And for all that you do, we'll be careful to give you the glory. Lord, save the lost, reclaim the backslider. Just speak to us, dear Lord. We need to hear thy voice, and we'll thank you for what you do. For we pray and ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. What I've just read, beginning in verse number eleven and on, is what we often call the battle of Armageddon. It's called the Battle of Armageddon first because of its biblical terminology. That's the biblical term that is given to this battle. But secondly, because of its location, the Bible teaches us that this battle will occur in a very specific place. The prophet in the Old Testament says it will take place in the valley of Megheto. It's a great plain, a big open area, a place where a great multitude of people could gather, and it is there, God said that this battle will occur. Now we're literalists around here. That means we interpret our Bibles literally. And if the Bible makes literal sense, then we don't seek any other sense So we do believe that God meant what he said when he said it'll take place there. This is not an imaginary battle. This is not even a spiritual battle in the sense that we're not talking about warring spirits so much as we are talking about flesh and blood Kings and armies and captains, men and women and people who will gather together, and the Bible says their sole intent is to make war with him who sits on that white horse. I also believe that in a literal understanding of these white horses. Why God chose that, that's his business, not mine. It's his Bible. He wrote it. And I do believe, I remember years ago I was working at a farm and this fella, he just he claimed to be a Christian, but I don't know. And uh my pastor was preaching a series on the white horse And uh he we were milking one evening and it was one evening I had the milk and they were there and and the preacher was on radio and it was going, he was preaching about that white horse. And uh I can still hear that guy. Old sexton, he's always riding a horse, preaching a horse. There comes that white horse. On and on I said, sir, what bothers you about that white horse? Well, I I just don't know. He said, surely God can do something else than ride a horse. I said, well God can do anything he wants to, but the Bible says that he chose to come again riding a white horse. Now think about this for a moment, if you will, as this heavens, as the heavens open. John said he saw the heaven, heaven opened. And when heaven opened, lo and behold, look what he saw: a white horse. And listen, what's not it's not so impressive the fact that he saw the white horse, it's the one who was sitting on the horse that got his attention. He that sat upon the horse, notice this white horse rider. Look at the things that are said about him first. He that sat upon him was called faithful and true. I love that name, don't you? In fact, that song Brother Dickerson was singing tonight is a testimony that God is faithful and true. And listen, everything about God is both faithful and true. He is faithful and true. And that's who was sitting on this white horse. Notice what else he says, and in righteousness he doth judge and make war. Can I say this? This will be one war that is completely righteous. No ulterior motives, no things behind the scenes. There's no underlying, under uh pending current uh s situation that sparks it or stirs it. The truth of the matter is, this is an exclusively righteous war because Jesus comes to make war, and he does so in righteousness. Thank God when He's He does this, notice what it says. His eyes were as a flame of fire John said, when I looked at him and I saw his eyes, they looked like burning fire, as a flame of fire. And I believe that speaks to the purity of the Lord Jesus. No, he didn't say they were fire, he said they were as fire. And then he says, and on his head were many crowns. Many crowns. And I believe that points to the ruling authority that he rules in heaven above, earth below, and hell beneath. He rules all. He's the ruler of all. Many, many crowns are on his head. And look at this. There's still a mystery about him. He had a name written that no man knew but he himself. He had a name written that no man knew but he himself. Now isn't that interesting that our Lord has a name that no man knows? Now, I think some people think that when we get to heaven, we're going to know everything there is to know about God. And I don't believe that's so I don't believe that when we get to heaven we're going to suddenly know everything that you can know about the Lord. Because if He's if He's definable If you and I could could define and discover him completely, he'd cease to be God. There's still a portion of God that is mysterious. And this horse rider, this white horse rider, is is going to be there. And beloved, listen, he he's he's got a name no man knows. I think one of the beauties of heaven is that we're still going to be learning. We're still going to be figuring things up. We're still going to be recognizing new things about the Lord. If you've been saved any length of time, hopefully you know more now about Jesus than you did before. And listen, if you are saved and allowed to live many more years, you'll still know more things if you'll keep walking with the Lord. Because he's like a bottomless well. You can't ever figure out all there is to know about the blessed Lord. Not just here on earth, but up yonder in heaven too. Then notice this he was clothed. With a vesture dipped in blood. His vesture is dipped in blood. And I believe that points back to Calvary. Joseph had his garments stripped, blood stained, and thrown at his father's feet. But the next time we see Joseph is not with that bloodstained coat, but we see him ruling down in Egypt. Can I remind you that the Lord Jesus left here with the blood-stained garment? He left this old world having shed his blood for the sins of the world. But when he comes again, he's not coming, my friend, to be nailed to a cross. He's coming as King of all kings and Lord of all lords. And so see him yonder there with that vesture dipped in blood. Then notice what else it says, and his name is called the Word of God. His name is called. If you're not clear on who that is by now, surely this makes it plain. John chapter 1 says, in the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God, the same as in the beginning with God. And then on down a little bit in the chapter it says, And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Listen, it's Jesus. That's who's sitting on that white horse. The same Jesus they nailed on the cross and walked away and said he's dead. The same Jesus they wrapped and put in that borrowed tomb. The same Jesus who the angel said, He is not here, he is risen. Come see the place where the Lord lay. The same Jesus, who the disciples, stood on the Mount of Olives and just looked in wonder as he went up into heaven, who heard the angels said, You men of Galilee, why stand ye here gazing? This same Jesus shall so come in like manner as you've seen him go. I'm talking about that's who this is on the white horse who is returning. You'll notice as we read on about him in verse number 15 that out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword. That with it he should smite the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, and he treadeth the wine press of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. Folks, he's not coming to make peace. You might want to highlight that last part, because to me, that's the most terrifying statement in the whole revelation. That he is coming to tread the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. He's coming not with grace and reconciliation, he's coming with war and vengeance and judgment. The Lord Jesus, when he comes again, is not coming to take the insults of those creatures he's made and take the sins of the world upon himself. He's settled that matter already. He's coming now to set things in righteous order. He's coming to judge, he's coming to make war, and you'll notice when he does, the Bible describes it as a treading of the wine press. You think about that, how they would step on those grapes and just crush them under their feet. They would crush those grapes under their feet. and and push that juice out and and they would stomp around and walk around that wine press and the Bible says that's exactly what God's going to do on this earth through his Son Jesus Christ. When he comes down through the valley of Meghetto, he's going to walk and tread the winepress of the fierceness of the wrath of Almighty God. Would to God this silly and shallow world read their Bibles and understand that God is not to be plagued with. That our God is not a God to be partied to, He's not a God to simply uh be placated, He is a God to bow before and to seek mercy from, for there will come a day when the The wrath of God will be poured out upon the people in this earth. It's a terrifying thing. Then you'll notice not only the white horse rider, but those who ride with him. We're told in verse number 14 that the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses. Now I believe that he's coming back on a white horse, and I believe I am too. Now listen, you may be scared to death of him now, but it won't bother you at all then. It may be quite uh an apprehensive thing for you to climb up on a horse at this point, but I'll tell you then it will not be even an afterthought. The armies of God will come with him, he says again, on these white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean Now, if I understand my Bible and you cross-reference these statements, this clothed in white linen, fine and clean, we're not talking about angels. Angels are never described in that way, being clothed in that white linen, fine and clean. But the children of God are multiple times in Revelation. Multiple times we're told that that white linen is the righteousness of the saints. It's that work that God did in us through the grace of God. It's that covering of the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And so it's quite clear that the armies that are coming with him are the converted of the ages. It's interesting he calls them an army. When I read that, my mind immediately went back to the book of Judges and a man named Gideon When our Lord went to a man, cowered down, threshing his wheat, trying to hide from the enemy, and he addressed him as the Almighty Man of Valor. And I imagine old Gideon went, Me? You talking to me? I'm not a mighty man of valor. Well, what Gideon couldn't see is what God was about to do in his life. And when you look at the church today, she might not be much of an army by the world's estimation, but I promise you, by the workings of God in each of our hearts and lives, we most certainly are an army by his making. Notice this army that will return who rides with him. And by the way, it says that they are clothed in fine linen, white and clean. You think about this army. They're purified and glorified. What a difference. When Jesus came the first time, he came as a little baby and wrapped him in swabbling clothes and put him in a manger. When he comes the next time, he's going to be a mighty king. And he's coming with war in his eyes. He's not coming to suffer and to be slain. He is coming, my friend, to rule and reign on this earth. But now listen, you and I leave this world much in the same way. You think about how men and women leave this world, we leave it in weakness, sickness, suffering, and sorrow. There's a a a a shedding of life, I guess we could call it, where whereby there's a dismantling It was my dad who first told me he said son and the only way he could say it he said getting old is like tearing down a barn. Now we've torn out a lot of barns. He said you just get took apart one board at a time I thought, man, that just makes me want to get old, right? But that's what he said. That's he said it's just like tearing down an old barn one plank at a time But you know, when we leave this world, when we leave this world, we will leave this world. The Bible says, what's sown in weakness will be raised in power. We'll leave this world, many of God's little children leave this world, gasping for air, struggling for breath, weakened body, disease racked with pain. But hallelujah, when we see us again over there in Revelation, we're not sick, and we're not suffering, we're not gasping for air. We're seated on that white horse coming back as the army of God. We're sown in dishonor, Paul said, raised in honor. Oh listen, what a day that's going to be when God's little children come back as the mighty army of the Lord. And I see not only that White Horse Rider and those who ride with him, but the bulk of this chapter focuses on this great battle that takes place. And he begins describing this battle by talking about this mercenary supper. Notice in verse 17 he said, I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God. Look at this, that you may eat the flesh of kings. And the flesh of captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sat on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small and great. This supper that's going to take place is so different than any other that we read about in the Revelation. It is a supper for those ravenous birds. They're going to feed on the flesh of the slain, both man and beast in that valley. Oh, I'm telling you, dear friend, it's gonna be a tragic hour when When that begins, and that angel summons these birds from the four corners of the earth to feel that valley and to feel their belly. Then you'll notice in verse number 19, the making of war. He said, I saw the beast. Now look who's involved. The kings of the earth. Their armies gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse and against his army. So the war has to do with the Lord Jesus. By the way, this will help you understand what's going on in the world today. Every war, I believe, is a dress rehearsal for the Great War All the fighting among men is funneling in one direction. Do you realize that? It's going one way. Oh, I know there's righteous causes and there's justification, but please hear me. It's all preparation for a coming war that's like no other. It's all a trial run to get ready when all the kings and all the armies and all the multitudes of the earth all come together and say, it's the lamb we got problem with. It's that white horse rider we want to make war with. It's that one who, by the way, notice there are no atheists in this crowd. There's no atheist in this crowd. Atheism is a dy thing. Hear me? Oh, preacher, I know a bunch of atheists. Well, you may know some now, but you won't know any then. Because they know he's real, and the beast is preparing them and getting them ready and saying, now we're coming together and we're going to make war with him. Imagine the ignorance And the arrogance of man to think he can unseek God. We're quickly going there. Humanism is an ideology that deifies man and removes God from the throne. And it says that if there is a God, I'm God. And I believe that's going to be the underpending ideology for that great race of individuals who will stand up and say, We'll make war with you, Lord. We'll not have you rule over us. In the heart of every sinner and the heart of every person is that rebellion and that revulsion towards God. And until you get converted, and even after you get converted, there's a battle with putting that old man down so that new man can reign. There's going to be a battle. That old man is going to want to rise up and say, I'll not have this man rule over us. But that new man says, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And that old nature, listen, the whole earth is going to be filled with a revolution, but it's not a revolution against a political party. or a nation uh another nation or international uh individual. It's going to be a revolution against the high God of heaven And they're going to make war. They're going to gather together. And they're going to think that their bombs and their tanks and all of their uh weaponry is going to be powerful enough to unseat the Lord. Now I'm telling you, I don't know what kind of capabilities that we have in this country, but we got some pretty powerful things. Those of you that live near here, I you know when something's about to happen because it gets mighty active over yonder. And you know, remember here a few months ago, it seemed like day and night, man the house who Just shaking, boom, boom, just constant, on and on and on. I remember when we first moved here and that first happened. I told Elizabeth, I said, What was that? I don't know what that was, but it shook the house. And then it did it again and again and again. I thought, mercy, have we been invaded? I wonder who's who's uh I come to the office, I think it's Brother Allen. I said, Brother Dixon, I said, could you tell me what is happening? I said, man, the other morning the other our house literally shook, the ground was shaken and and he act like he didn't even notice it. Well, you and I know what's going on over there across the water. And so what I'm trying to say is we might have some some capabilities that would blow our mind if we knew the whole story. But the reality is there's not been a weapon nor will be a weapon made by man that will undo Almighty God. You say, How do you know that? Well, read the story. Notice in verse number 20 the misery that's to come. The Bible says in verse number 20 that the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that had received the mark of the beast. And them that worshipped his image. These both, the beast and false prophet, were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone I want you to notice the devil's undoings about to be done here. He's about to get his due. The beast and the false prophet. Notice there's no fight in this thing. There's no opposition in this thing. There's no real warfare in this thing. It says they are taken. They are taken. Man, you think that's that catching away a Maduro was something else. I'm telling you, when they take the the beast and the false prophet, that's going to be something to see. When uh all it's gonna take is God's gonna order and and we're not told how many, we're not told just what, but we're told the beast that a false prophet take it. I doubt it's even gonna take two angels because it's just gonna take one to bind old Sloughfoot And they're gonna say, bind them, throw them, cast them in the lake of fire. And the devil's gonna get his due. I'm gonna tell you something. You don't you take heart tonight You take heart tonight. It seems like the devil is won for ages. It seems like that he's come out on the upper hand it's time and time again. In our own lives, it seems like He sort of gets the jabs in sneakily and every once in a while seems to land one of them crippling blows. But there is coming a day. When the righteous God who comes to make a righteous war is going to put an end to the devil's business. And he's going to bind that beast and false prophet and he's going to toss them into the lake of fire. Notice it's eternal fire. It's an eternal abode. And that's where the beast and false prophet will be for all of eternity. Thank God the devil will soon join them. And look at verse 21. And the remnant. That's everybody who's left, the people, were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the horse. Which sword proceeded out of his mouth, and all the fowls were filled with their flesh. What a massacre of many! You know the devil talks big but delivers nothing He promises much, but he never provides Here he is, and and and look, these armies of the earth have been deceived into thinking we can win this battle We obviously have the capabilities and the power and such. And by the way, there's supernatural things going on because it talks about how the beast and false prophet, how he worked miracles and deceived many So there's stuff going on that has perplexed people's minds and they said this must be supernatural power. If our if our bullets and our Our bombs can't do it, surely this supernatural power is going to be able to unseat the Lord. And all he 's going to do Is speak the word. That's what it says. They will be slain with the sword. What sword did he have? Well, we read it already. The sword was the word that proceeded out of his mouth That's all he's going to do. By the way, our God is such a God that he don't need to pull a blade of steel and he don't need to drop a bomb with nitrogen or whatever. He simply can speak the word. And undo his enemy. He's going to do that one of these days. All he's got to do is call for the atoms to go to their places, and our little bodies will disintegrate into nothingness Because it is by him all things consist. It's in him we live and move and have our being. He's the one that holds this whole thing together. And all he's got to do is gonna speak, he's gonna speak, and when he speaks, the Bible says the blood's gonna flow to the horse's bridle. What a battle. And yet there's not going to be the pulling of swords or the dropping of bombs. There's going to be the speaking of the word, the word of God. Oh friend, I hope you get a hold of that. I'm not anticipating there's no delight in the death of the wicked. But I do delight in the power of God's word. I delight in the power of God's word. If God speaks, when God speaks, he can change everything around. This vast multitude of armies, international groups and course, every kind of flag under the heavens going to be waving. They've marshalled together under the enemy. They're ready to make war with God, and in a moment of time, instantly, They're going to be annihilated. That's great power, church. The word of God is powerful. It's quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. And the beauty of it is you carry it in your hand. You and I have the blessed word of God. I I told you I was listening to Oliver B. Green this morning, and he was talking about up in Chambersburg, P. A. he helped start a little church up there And he was up there helping those people, and man, that turned into the battle royale of P. A. Some of you may remember those days when he started that work. They put him off the radio station, said he was divisive and he was a troublemaker and they tried to burn him out and run him out and shut him up and some of you know what I'm talking about. He just kept preaching. And he said there was a a Jew who came, a Hebrew man, came into his assembly, and he was invited by another lady who had a background in Judaism, and he said, I watched a miracle of all miracles. He said, that little lady cornered him in the back of the church where he couldn't get away and called me over to speak to him, and he said, we both had him blocked in, and she said, I want to read you something. And she opened her Bible and read Isaiah 53. She read all of Isaiah 53, and when she got through, she said, who's that talking about? He said, I don't know. So she backed up and she said, she started reading Isaiah 53, read the whole chapter again. She said, who's that talking about? He said, I don't know. So she backed up again. He said she did that time and time again, read the whole chapter over and over again. And he said after multiple times of reading that chapter, he said that Hebrew man bowed his head and he said, That's Jesus. That's Jesus. He said, I watched a miracle greater than the raising of Lazarus. He said, I watched a miracle take place greater than any other a man could view, I watched a man pass from death unto life and was born again through the pure word of God. He said what preaching and arguing and everything else couldn't do, he said the plain old Bible did. Why? Because there's power in the Word. Oh don't you worry, my friend, this book still has power. And dear friend, understand that when Jesus comes again, the word don't lose its power. The word doesn't lose its power. He's going to speak. And if you will, the battle will be over. Not a shot fired, not a grenade lobbed Not a listen, there's not going to be a a sword pull, and you say, what are we doing? We're just witnesses. We're just watching God do what God does We're not going to wade into the battle. We're not going to wear a suit of armor. We're not going to have to pull a shiny sword. We're sitting on our white horses watching the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords conquer with nothing more than the words of his mouth. Hallelujah, what a savior. Now look, this whole chapter is a prelude of the next to come. Chapter 20 Verse number one says, I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand, and he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent which is the devil and Satan and bound him a thousand years. We are about to enter in the most blessed time on earth you've ever known. We are going to enter into the millennial reign. I'm not going to get ahead of myself and Preach this tonight, but I want to remind you that this prelude of the finale is just simply the putting together of all the pieces. Look, there could not be a millennial reign If evil men continue to exist, evil and righteousness cannot coexist. Not in harmony. Darkness and light cannot coexist. Where was it? I saw a bumper sticker. And it was the big coexist sticker. Yeah. That's the Antichrist's chant. Coexist, coexist. You know what that means? That means exist without Christians. There's no coexisting with light and dark. You can't blend the two. Listen, we need to stop sitting down at the table trying to make peace with the devil. You're never going to make peace with the devil The only one who's going to put an end to this all is Jesus when he comes, and he will rule and reign with the rod of iron. And beloved, when he returns, he's going to establish peace because he's going to abolish evil. And dear friend, when he does so God deals with every rebel, every uprising, every power of darkness, every ounce of it, He's going to deal with it and drive it away. What a glad day And then when Satan is bound for that one thousand years, the curse that's been on the earth since the fall of man is going to be lifted. And Isaiah tells us that the plowman's going to overtake the reaper. There's going to be such a productive earth, we're going to see things we've never seen before. There's going to be such a a a life. I mean the predator prey's gone in the animal, the fear of man and that all of that's going to be gone. Look, you you folks that love animals now You think that little pet you got at home is something, you might have a giant tiger that could just come up, walk in your living room, and sat down. Wouldn't that be something? Pet that big old rascal If I was gonna have a cat, that's the kind of cat I'd want, you know. One of them big ones, mean ones with teeth and claws. But that wouldn't want to eat me now when I wanted to go to bed at night or whatever This is going to be one grand day. For 1,000 years upon the earth, Christ is going to rule. Righteousness will be established The devil will be bound, sin abolished, all evil will be put away, and we'll worship the great King of all kings, and God will be glorified. What a day that's going to be when our Lord returns I want to say this tonight. You best be on the right side of this king. I ain't worried about your church affiliation. I'm not worried about your denomination. You better be worried about where you stand with the king. He's not coming to play games. He's coming to make war. He's not coming, my friend, to sign treaties and make deals. He's coming to rule and he's coming to reign. Amen. And thank God for all of you who are saved, there has already been a day you bowed the knee. You've already judged that sin in the light of his truth And found forgiveness in the Lord Jesus Christ. You're on the right side of Calvary. You're on the right side of the King of Kings. If you're listening to me tonight and you're not saved, you're not on the right side of the King. You're going to be, if time tarries, and you don't step into a Christless eternity without God and hope, listen, you're going to be on the wrong side of this king. You're going to be facing like the multitudes we've read about, you're going to be facing the fierceness of the wrath of Almighty God. You're going to endure and see the anger of the Lord Jesus Christ as only it will be displayed through him. And dear friend, you don't want to fall in the hands of an angry God Who's come to judge. Now we don't like to think of the Lord like that, but that's who he is, according to this book. We don't like to think about him in that way. We like to think of the meek and mild Jesus. But even the meek and mild Jesus set men straight when he walked this earth. We don't like to think about the terror that is going to come. Can you imagine the terror? I'm not talking about being afraid of a man. Forget men. Men will fall away into oblivion. Men mean nothing in this moment when you face an angry God in your sin without forgiveness, without covering, without excuse. The Bible says no man is going to have an excuse in that hour. It's going to be a terrifying moment for those to face him without being covered by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, without being hidden in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. without having that advocate, that one who will plead your case, the Lord Jesus Christ. It's going to be a tragic moment to see him and to face him. And to under uh understand that now I'm the object of the wrath, the fierceness of the wrath of Almighty God. And hell is only a perpetuation of it You understand something, hell is a forever place. It's becoming right fashionable now in some circles because famous people say, well, hell will lead to annihilation Well, smart people can be dumb sometimes. And believe it or not, people who are well known can uh are sometimes not well educated on truth. I'm saying my Bible says hell's eternal. We just read about the beast and false prophet being thrown into a lake of fire that burns forever and ever. That's the words of God. That's what the Bible clearly states. And friend, understand tonight that hell will have no end. That lake of fire will have no end. It is a place of suffering and torment forever and ever. This isn't a scare tactic. This is the truth of the Word of God And by the way, sin is so subtly wound in the depths of our hearts that you can't scare a man away from his sin. We become a society that is so f we feed on such such filth and such Amusing we amuse ourselves with things that are so so horrifying and so evil That I I think it's quite clear. In fact, Jesus said if he were to raise a man from the dead and send him back from hell so that he could come and speak to people, that they wouldn't hear him. They wouldn't hear him. It wouldn't work. If they won't hear the law and the prophets, they won't hear him. It just won't happen, dear friend. And what I'm trying to say is Is that I'm not trying to scare or trying to use pressure. I'm trying to preach faithfully the word of God that there is wrath to come, there is a hell to avoid, there is an eternal suffering that awaits all who reject the Son of God. You may not like the messenger. That's fine. It don't listen, that's not important. That's irrelevant. But please hear the message Please hear what I'm trying to say. If you're not saved, you're lost. If you're not going to heaven, you're going to hell. If you've not been born again, there's an eternity that awaits before you. And my friend, you must meet Christ And bow before him as Savior, or you'll meet him and bow before him as judge, and that'll be a terrifying day. Oh, dear friend, hear me today. This time is coming. I believe swiftly coming. And then will dawn that glorious day when the devil is bound. And cast and held in that pit for a thousand wonderful years May the Lord help us to make ready and ensure that we're on the right side. of this great king. That one who sits on the white horse who will come open to heaven. I don't know about you. I don't want to be down here looking up. I want to be up there looking down. And thank God if you're saved by the grace of God, that's right where you will be. Well today that's going to be. Father, take your word now, please, and help us we ask