Wonder was worth coming to church for. Amen. I'm glad he is always the same. And that ought to comfort your heart this morning. amid the changing hours and all that seems to uh really everything changes in time, but I'm glad he does not. And I appreciate that. Would you take your Bibles this morning and turn with me to the Gospel of John, John chapter number 13. I'm going to read verses 31 to 35, John chapter number 13, verses 31 to 35. And when you find your place in the Word of God, stand with me and we'll honor the reading of this book. John thirteen Verse thirty one. We're breaking into a portion here that I'll go back and cover some of it, but notice what's said here, therefore, when he, speaking of Judas, was gone out. Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God be glorified in him, God shall also glorify him in himself. And shall straightway glorify him. Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me, and as I said unto the Jews, whither I go ye cannot come. So now I say to you A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another, as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have loved one to another. I'm going to stop reading there, and on last Lord's Day morning, we looked at the heart of the Lord. This morning, I want to look at the heart of the Lord's people. And I believe you'll notice they're one and the same. Let's pray. Father, do help us now. We look to you for we realize that we stand where no man can stand alone. I ask you, dear Lord, to help both the preacher and the hearer. For Lord, what we need today, I don't have. And Lord, what we need here today cannot come from any other source but heaven. And so we're asking, O Lord, that you would do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. And get all the glory and the doing of it, and Lord, just fix our eyes afresh on you. And we'll praise you and thank you for we ask these things. And Lord, I just want to thank you again that you're always the same. I thank you, Lord, that as the Bible declares Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and forever, we praise your holy name that you're always the same. We love you and we thank you now, and just help us as we study your word. And we ask it in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. I really would encourage you to go back and read the whole chapter. In John chapter number 13, the Lord Jesus does something I think you're familiar with. You've studied, I hope. He washes the disciples' feet. And in the washing of the disciples' feet, he reminds them that he is about to depart. And he's going to say it here in the verses I read, the text I read. And he's going to remind us that the cross is looming just ahead. Really, this is a very solemn scene. This was no glib gathering of God's people. This was a solemn setting. Our Lord saying things like, I'm going somewhere you can't go now. I'm leaving. I'm going to die. Their hearts are broken, disturbed, and troubled. You say, how do you know? Because the very next chapter, Jesus starts like this: let not your heart be troubled. It's a very solemn, solemn scene. But yet in the midst of that solemn scene, there's a sacred responsibility entrusted to these disciples. It's interested to me that of all the places the Lord would teach this, he would teach this here at this moment. I want you to notice a few things with me as we look at this text. Number one, I want you to notice the commencement of the end. If I can say it like this, this was the beginning of the end of the Lord's ministry on this earth. The Bible says there in verse 31, look at it again, therefore when he was gone out, he being Judas. If you go back and read, in fact, let's do that in verse 26. The disciples are asking who's going to betray him? He actually had told them, one of you shall betray me. And in verse 26, Jesus answered, He it is to whom I shall give a salt when I have dipped it. And when he had dipped the salt, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. Now, when you read on, and we will, you'll find out these disciples weren't really paying attention. He said, I'm going to give this piece of bread dipped in that gravy for lack of better term, and I'm going to hand it to them, and that person will betray me. Verse 27, it says, And after the Sop Satan entered him. Then said Jesus unto him, That thou doest do quickly. Now no man at the table knew for what intent he spake this unto him. For some of them thought, because Judas had the bag that Jesus had said unto him, buy those things that we have need of against the feast. Or that he should give something to the poor. He then having received the sock went immediately out, and it was night. So the disciples have been told who would betray them, and yet when it takes place, they still don't, they're not observant, they're not aware of what's going on. When you look at this man Judas and you see the departure here, he goes out. Oh, what a sad man he is. He 's sad in a lot of ways, but the most sad thing I read in my text is that Satan entered into him. Here was a man who was acquainted with the God of grace, but didn't know the grace of God. I don't believe Judas was a saved man. If he was a saved man, Satan could not have entered him. You see, people worry, they say, Well, I uh you know, the the Talk about today possession, all that. But listen, friend, the devil can't possess a saved soul. The Bible says you are sealed in Ephesians with the Holy Spirit of promise. You're sealed. Not only are you sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, the Bible teaches me in Hebrews that I am covered with the blood of Jesus Christ. Now for the devil to take up residence in someone who's saved, he'd have to go through the blood and through the spirit, and by the end of that, you've got a saved devil. And there's no such creature. So w the the devil cannot enter a child of God. Now, what's sad about this is, is that Judas heard everything everybody else heard Judas witnessed every miracle that everyone else witnessed. I mean, he was right there watching Jesus. He was right there experiencing all the miracles. He he heard the messages He was present and yet he was not converted. Don't think it's strange. Don't think it's strange that somebody can sit on a church pew their whole life and still end up in hell. I mean hear the gospel message, hear the good news, hear the testimonies. Watch individuals be saved and still not be, listen, not be saved themselves. Judas was in the presence of the Lord Jesus and was lost. Isn't that sad? Someone said the saddest place to go to hell from is a church pew. And I'm afraid many will do that. We see a departure out of this upper room. We see in the commencement of this end a declaration. Notice right after that, verse 31, now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. You say, what in the world? This is the darkest hour of our Lord's life. But God's being glorified. These are the moments that the Lord Jesus has lived for, and listen, he's come to die. And so notice this, it is a time of Satan's ascendancy. He seems to have the sway. He seems to be in control. He's entered Judas. Now Judas acting at his behest is going to betray the Lord. And the whole motion of the crucifixions getting ready to unfold at rapid pace. All energized By the devil himself. And yet, Jesus said, Now, is the Son of Man glorified? You know what that teaches me? That teaches me in the darkest hour, God can often get the most glory. In the most difficult of situations, and when the devil seems to have sway, When he's doing what he wants to do with whomever he wishes to do it, God is still being glorified. Even the wrath of man can praise the Lord. God 's being glorified. How's he being glorified? Through the sufferings and death of the Lord Jesus for sinners. God is being glorified through the sacrifice of all sacrifices. He's being glorified through this process that the Lord Jesus is going to go through. Through the payment of sin for you and I, God is being glorified. Listen, friend, be careful about passing judgment and saying, what a tragedy. Because often in those dark places God is getting glory. The disciples were discouraged because they didn't see what was going on from heaven's view. When Jesus hung on the cross and said it is finished, they walked away with hung heads and broken hearts and tear-filled eyes and says, I guess it's over. Little did they know that just three days later, what they thought was over, it would begin again. Jesus Christ would rise from the dead. And listen, those moments of defeat. Now oftentimes in our lives, we look at things. I think of Jacob when he got word. that uh his his beloved son had been kept down in Egypt. And he cried out and said, All these things are against me. His heart was broke. He had lost another boy. As far as he could see, life was never going to be the same again. Little did he know Joseph would soon say, Dad, come down here. And little did he know that what he thought was against him was actually working for him. He didn't have Romans uh eight twenty eight. He didn't have the the scriptures that we've got that tell us if God be for us, who can be against us? He didn't know the whole story, but the whole story is, no matter what, God is getting glory. We're going to move tonight in the Revelation to Revelation 4 and look at a heavenly scene. But I'm going to remind you that while things are happening in heaven, things are happening on earth It's going to be a dark hour. It's going to be an awful time on this earth. But yet, God's getting glory. God's getting glory to himself, even though it seems the man of sin holds sway over the masses of peoples I want to remind you that no matter what the devil does or says, God is still getting glory unto himself And he's being glorified. He said, now, now, now is the Son of Man glorified. And God is glorified in him. And then our Lord gives these directions in verse 33: little children. And by the way, notice that term of affection that he uses here. Little children. This was a I I don't have a word to describe this mob of fellows Number one, they're not paying attention. They think, and don't you know, Jesus knew the thoughts of their heart. He said, I'm going to tell you who's going to betray you. He shows them. I guess Judas is going to feed the poor. I guess he's going to buy some bread. Nobody put it together. They're being slow. And the Lord don't say now, you slow fellas, listen. He knows in a few minutes Peter's going to say, Now Lord, I'll die for you. And the Lord's going to say, Really? Before that rooster crows, you're going to deny me three times. He knows that Thomas, after the resurrection, is going to say, except I see him, I will not believe. I'm trying to say that he knew all their faults and failures and flaws, and he knew all the foolish things that were going on in their lives, and yet he said, Little children. You know what that tells me? He loves me in spite of me. He loves me even though he knows me. He loves me with with all of my faults and failures and failing Listen, he loves me still. And he said, now little children. This is the uh a term of of the of the highest affection one could express in their language at that day. Little children Yet a little while I'm with you. Ye shall seek me, and as I said unto the Jews, whither I go ye cannot come. So now I say unto you. Again , He's not just repeating himself. He's reminding them that his death is coming. He's reminding them that in front of him is a cross. He's been very blunt, and he will be even more clear as he describes it in the next two chapters and tell them, I'm going to go away. They're going to take me and and they're going to crucify me. They're going to take and put me on a cross. He's clear, he's plain. He said, I'm going to go. And he'd he'd already told the Jews that he'd that he would be killed. And nailed on a cross and and again they didn't believe him either. But he's letting them know that the cross lies ahead. Now, I said all of that so that you would see this solemn scene. These are the final moments of our Lord. I don't know how many bedsides you've stood by as someone took their last breath, but that's a solemn place. That's not a place of frivolity. That's not a place of foolishness. There's serious things happening. For the believer, there's deep peace knowing that to be absent from body, present with the Lord. For those who are saved by the grace of God, it's a time of recognizing that it's appointed unto men once to die. And after this, the judgment, we know that there's uh that crossing time, it's it's a very, very solemn scene. And often words spoken in those moments carry more weight than any others. Because generally, generally, people don't talk lightly At times like that. It's a serious moment. Jesus has come to a serious moment. And I want you to notice the commandment that's given here, the commandment I'm calling it that endures. We see the commencement of the end, now the commandment that endures. And in that solemn scene he speaks these words, A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another, as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. Folks, we often treat this like sort of the forgive me if you are this, a redheaded stepchild We treat it like it's just some little suggestion that we can take or leave simply based on how we feel, but Jesus said in the scenes before his death, in the moments before he's taken out of here, he says, love each other. I'm telling you, love each other. It would be like a mother-father dying and and and all the families gathered around and they start giving instructions and the first thing they say, I want you to love each other. But it bears a whole lot more weight because this is just no Mother Father. This is the King of Glory. This is Jesus our Savior. This is the Master who sits on heaven's throne above. He says, love one another. You know those parting words still linger. Maybe some of you have those. Parting words stuck in your mind or heart of a loved one. The Lord was very gracious when he took my mother home to let her rally before she left. She'd been sick a whole week. And we had tried to get here and and finally got down there and and uh that morning when we arrived, she was as bright as if, in fact Hospice came in and said, you know, if she keeps doing this well, we're gonna have to move her from this facility to another. And I told my brother and my sisters, I said, I'd like to stay with her tonight so we can talk and And she needs anything. I don't get to spend the time with her. Everybody else did. So please let me stay with her. And I stayed with mom. Sunday morning rolled around and she woke up and my brother had come early and we were s we were there talking and and uh mom woke up, she saw my brother, she saw me. She said, I need to tell you two something. Now I I was uh honest John I was waiting for something very serious. Because that's normally the way mom was, and especially then But she said, those two cats I have at home, I don't want anything done to them when I go. That's what she said. I said, Okay, Mom. She was quiet just a minute and then she looked at my brother. She said, Now promise me And then she looked at me and said, You heard him promise. Now my mother had been homebound for a while and We'd had the privilege to make a little area for her to sit there and and uh somebody had dumped off some old stray cats and she got to where she loved them things. And she looked forward every morning to get up and watch them little old snakes with fur play around. And she'd feed them and love them and care for them. She said, you know, I I I I want them left alone. I'll tell you, do you know one of them things? Uh last time we were in North Carolina, or I was in North Carolina. It was still there. My brother and my brother was feeding it of all things. Now that's a miracle of God. But she made us promise. And it wasn't a light thing. It meant something to her for some reason. And so we took that very serious. That's sort of silly in a way, but I do want to say this. There's a whole lot something more serious being said right here. Jesus said, When I leave, I want you to love each other. When I'm gone I want you to see to it because it's important. Do you see how solemn this is? How how serious this obligation is, this commandment? Notice this demand he makes. He says, it's a new commandment. John Gill said, it's not new in the sense of never been heard. But it's new in the sense of it's a new addition, a clearer explanation, an example never known before. Because Jesus is going to say, like I've loved you, you love each other. It's a new commandment in that sense, because we've never seen a love like Jesus loved. Never seen nothing like that. He goes on in the commandment to give us the details again to love one another. He said, Of all the things you do, I want you to see this, please. I don't think I'm overemphasizing the truth of this, but but he's he's saying this before his death. He's saying this in those final moments. He's saying this in that parting scene. Men I'm leaving. Love each other. Church, I'm going to heaven, love each other. I'm not going to be on this earth anymore. Love each other. Remember, this is the crowd who had argued, and I think it was not too many days previous, they had argued who's going to be the greatest? Who gets the right hand left hand position? They've been fuss fussing and fighting about that. Who's going to be in charge? Don't we worry about awful silly things I'll tell you what, if you ever really were in charge, you'd wish somebody else was at times. And they they argue and they carry on. And he says, love each other. Love each other. Can I just uh detour a minute and say here's a teaching that has been Diluted and misrepresented in the age we're living in. There's nothing soft about real love Love don't turn a blind eye to wrong. Love speaks the truth. Love doesn't say, well, it's okay. We'll just lower the standard. God's word 's not really true. Everything's okay. That's not love. Love is a very demanding sort of thing. Jesus said in this new commandment, love one another. And then he adds a definition to it, and these men needed it, and we need it this morning, because oftentimes God's commandments, unfortunately, are open to our interpretation. But God didn't allow that. He said, as I've loved you He said, how are we supposed to love? You know, it's like the man who said, who's my neighbor? He didn't want to know who the neighbor was. He just wanted to argue with Jesus. He said, here's what I want you to know. I want you to love like I've loved. Now stop a minute and think about how he loved. He loved these men in spite of their unbelief. He loved these men with all their faults and failures. He loved them with all the silly things that they did. If you don't believe God has at least a measure of a sense of humor, read the New Testament I mean, some of the things he recorded about these men is almost comical, the things that they did in light of what they knew. And yet he loved them still. Fast forward, fast forward, Jesus is going to go to the cross and Peter's going to deny he knows him. But yet that same denier is going to be invited to a dinner. Jesus is going to say to the denier, come and dine. And sitting on the seashore, he's going to ask him three simple questions. Peter, do you love me? He's not going to chide him, he's not going to try to destroy him. He's not going to crush him. He's going to in love draw him. And he's going to say, Peter, do you love me? I'm just trying to get across the point that we need to love like he loves. He says, as I have loved you. What's the definition of love? It's the Lord Jesus Christ. That man hanging on the cross, shedding his blood, dying not for his sin but ours, for he had none. That one who would lay down his life for his friends, friend, that's love. That's what true love really looks like. That's what love is all about. He said, I want you to love each other like I've loved you. John 13. You say, how does he love me? Well, in John 13, verse 1, it says he loved them unto the end. He loves with an enduring love. His love is enduring. That end uh was uh in the sense that that he loves us right to the very, very end. And I'm told in the Old Testament that I'm loved with an everlasting love. So there's really no end to the love of the Lord Jesus. There's no place where he draws the line and says, I don't love you no more. And boy, sitting here or standing here this morning, there ought to be some grateful people. Say, God, I'm glad you don't draw lines where your love stops. We ought to be thankful that we're loved by God who loves us regardless, who loves us in spite of who we are and what we do. I can't wrap my little head around that kind of love. That's big love. That's deep love. That's amazing love. Hey, that's God's love. Great is the love of God. 1 John 3, let me read this to you. 1 John 3, 16 says, Hereby perceive we the love of God. Because he laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. Friends, you can't look at the cross without hearing him say, I love you. You can't think of Calvary without recognizing He loved me. I mean He loved me. Why would He die there? Why would He take my sin? Why would He pay such an awesome price? simply because he loved me, for God so loved the world. Brother, sister, what love there is of God for his people. And yet he says, if I loved you like that, you ought to love the same. I want you to notice The conclusion that enlists. Because he gets to a conclusion here in verse 35, and it's one of those conclusions you've got to do something about. It's a conclusion that enlists us, if you will. Notice what it says by this. Shall all men know that you are my disciples if you have love one to another? By this. Notice that description. It's as if the Lord is turning the attention to one thing, and He does turn it to one thing. Old friend, can I urge you about something this morning? Be very close to this Bible when you try to define things. We say, by this shall all men know they're a Christian. And then we add our input. By this we we know that that all men are disciples. We say things like, well, because they do thus and so. You fill in the blanks. I don't have time this morning. Or we say things like, By this, you shall know, because they don't do thus or so. And so what we do is alter the Word of God. And Jesus said it this. He he made it very particular, very specific. He said, by this, this one thing. This is the one thing that will let everybody know you belong to me. This one thing. By the way, it's not two It's not free. And listen, you study the Bible over and you'll not find another place where Jesus says, this is how you'll know. It's such an identifier, it's such a distinguisher. It makes you stand out. By this, notice, all men. By this shall all men know. Here's God's design. God says I want to put something, let me say it like this. God wants to put something on you so that everybody knows you belong to me. I was a little boy going to school, I asked the bus driver, I said, uh, what do those cows have uh tags in their ears for? And she very jokingly said, they're price tags. So I told everybody I knew that those cows had price tags in their ears. Boy, I'll tell you they probably thought this little boy he needs school more than he knows. I went to work for that very farmer that I asked the question about. I was eight years old and I was feeding his calves And I'd go down there in the morning and fill the buckets with milk and carry them out to calves. We had anywhere from twelve to twenty-five or thirty calves at a time. And I asked him the first day. I said, how come that cow over there is just worth one? And we had another in the barn. She had 95 in her ear. He said, well, son, it's not about value, it's about identity. It's how we know who they are. We identify them. Hey, when the world looks at you , God said, I'm going to put something on you, not a tag in your ear, but I'm going to put something in your heart, and the whole world's going to know who you are. They're gonna know who you belong to. It's gonna be a mark. Listen, you you can't get away from it. It's my mark. I put it on you. By this shall all men know. By the way, how do you know you're his? Do you know it don't change? According to 1 John 5, it says, we know that we pass from death unto life because we love the brethren. Same mark that identifies you out here in the world is the same mark that identifies you in your heart. God says if you love the brethren, all men will know it, and you'll know it too, that you belong to me. That you'll belong that you belong to me. It's God's design. You know, sometimes we we get awful harsh and You say, well, we we know we know a person's a Christian by the clothes they wear. Brother and sister, listen to me. You and I need to be real careful of that sort of stuff. They some folk dress right that ain't right. Hey some folks they know the clothes aware, but they got Christ in their heart. I'm not condemning dressing right. But I'm talking about while how we're known. How are we known? What marks me? What's God's tag in my ear? What's God's impression on my heart? What is it that He does that says, hey, everybody, this is my little child. This belongs, he belongs to me. You can rest assured. That one's mine. That one belongs to me. Here's how we know. If you love the brethren. We love the brethren. That brings us to this decision. It's a great big word here at the latter part of this verse. It's the word if. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have loved one to another. And by the way, the construction of this verse is not in the idea of sense, but it literally is in the idea or in the suggestion if, if this is present. If this is visible, if this identify, if this can be discernible, if you have love one to another. Beloved, listen. This is a personal decision that leads to a public display. It's personal. Now here's what I know. I'm not responsible for how you love. I'm not responsible for that. I'm only responsible for me. Because he he said it, he made it very clear here. He made this right personal as the Lord always does, if ye. That's if you. You have love. If you as an individual, if you personally follow Christ and have His grace in your heart, then you make some decisions that way. And there'll be public discipline. By the way, remember what's going on here. He's washing feet. The Bible teaches me not to love in word, but in deed. I've been told I love you by some folks that had awful sharp knives that I had to pull out of my back a time or two. Words don't mean nothing. I know bad English, but it's good preaching. Words, it's easy to say Jesus did more than say it. He put a towel, got a basin of water, got on his knees, and washed their dirty feet. Hey, said, do you know what I've done? And you know, after he had already rebuked Peter, I don't think anybody really wanted to answer at that point. He said, I've done something that you need to go and do likewise. He said, I'm your master and your s and I'm your Lord. And he said, I've washed your feet. He said, if I be in your master and Lord have done that, he said, you go do the same to one another. In other words, be a servant. Don't you know that some of them fellas sitting there arguing about who is the biggest, best, baddest disciple, don't you know they felt like little bitty pygmies in the eyes of the Lord? We've just been talking about who's the best and here he is washing my feet It's a personal decision that leads to a public display. It's a personal decision that leads to a practical duty. By the way, it was very common in that day to have someone stationed at the door to wash your feet when you were a guest. It was common to walk those dusty streets with their sandals and open shoes and and it would their feet would get dirty, as you know. If you women wear sandals You know what it's like you walk, you get dirty, your feet get dusty. Those streets of Jerusalem and around that region were were a very that was a very dry climate and so their feet would become caked in dirt and it was just a common courtesy when you paid a visit someone there and they'd wash the dirt off your feet It was a practical duty. By the way, it was reserved for the lowest slaves in that era. It was considered a disgrace for a Jew to do this. It was culturally unacceptable. It had to be somebody else. It needed to be done in a practical way, but it was beneath them. I'm glad it wasn't beneath my Lord. My Lord teaches me something about humility here, reminding me that, hey, there's really nothing beneath you as a child of God, in the sense of practically serving your brothers and sisters. If you're too big for a little job, you're too little for a big job. You wash your feet. I was Twenty-eight years old, before I ever heard my daddy say, I love you. Now hold on a minute. He was old school. He didn't speak his feelings. I don't fault him for that. But looking back, he said it more than I heard it After I got married, I'd pull up, he'd say , You got good tires on that car? I'd say, yes, sir. Alright. When's the last time you checked your oil? Or oil, for those of you understand. When? Yeah. Oh my, there's a lot I can tell you. But anyway, when's the last time? You know what Dad was saying? I l I I look back at he's saying, Son, I love you. We'd be getting ready to go somewhere. We traveled up to Nova Scotia and uh my goodness he he gave me a 45-minute lecture. I got thinking about it and said, Dad, you've hardly ever left North Carolina. You're telling me. He's telling me what to look for and watch for and be careful about and on and on and on and on. And you know what? I look back, and you know what? Young men are stupid sometimes. And age don't help us every once in a while. I know that. But as a young man, I I look back, I get I got sagg of bait. I'm like, Dad, I know what I'm doing. Yeah. You know what Daddy was saying? I love you, son. I love you. It's a practical duty. Our Lord don't gush with mere emotional sentiment He speaks on practical terms. He said, fellas, I've washed your feet. He didn't have to say this, but he washed their feet because he loved them. Do you know what love looks like sometimes? Love looks like keeping your mouth closed when everything in you is wanting to say it. I read this morning and was reading it as I went to sleep last night in 1 Corinthians 10 about that church at Corinth, and he said, You go to law against one another. What's your problem? I'm paraphrasing obviously. What is your problem? Why will you not be defrauded? You know what he said? Why don't you just take it? When you get done wrong, why don't you just take it? It for the sake of Christ and the sake of the gospel and for the sake of of unity and this why don't you just take it? You know what he was saying? Hey fellas. Love takes it. Sometimes love uh sometimes love will say, hey, don't don't talk about that to me because it's gossip. Sometimes love says, I'm going to keep that to myself because nobody else really needs to know because it's going to hurt them I'll tell you our flesh is so rotten. You know what we do? We pick up the phone. I gotta tell you, would you pray with me about something? Let me l y you know I'll pick on Andy. Andy. K I I I'm gonna I'll call have you heard about Andy? We need to really pray for him. It's true for us both, my brother. But but you know something? I I I I saw I saw Andy at the bar. And we need to pray for him. Now, what my wicked heart failed to do is add that he was at the salad bar. Huh? You laugh, but I've got documented happened. Any details you leave out that tarnishes character. It's wrong. It's wrong. By the way, a lot of times what we do is we tell the part of the story we know, and there's not a one of us really know all the story. And if we did, we might be quieter about it than we often are. Sometimes love says, not gonna say a word, that's gonna die right here. It's gonna die right here. You know why? Because it's just it's not good. It's gonna hurt them. It's gonna hurt them. I'm talking about love that's practical in its duty. Sometimes love says, now brother, you're wrong. Sister, you're wrong. That's what love does. Speaking the truth in love. Sometimes love hauls you up short. How many of you thought you had the meanest parents on earth till you found out? What'd you find out? They loved you. That's why they didn't let you get by with everything. I learned early on that probably if I got a spank and I didn't deserve, I was going to earn it and he wouldn't know about it. Down the road. I didn't save them on credit, but you know what I mean. There's a whole of them I got that I deserved and there's a lot I didn't get that I did deserve. I'm just trying to say that love is practical in its duty. James said, if you see a brother or sister naked and destitute of daily food, and all you do is say to them, Be ye warmed and filled. What have you done? My knock on your door. Hey. Doug, I'm hungry. And Doug stands like an Old Testament high priest and says, I bless you, brother. Be warmed and be filled, and shuts the door in my face. What's he done? There's no love in that. There's there's there there may be a a a picture of religiosity But there's no practical duty. I'm glad when God looked on the fallen world of humanity, He didn't just say from heaven, I love you. But he sent his only begotten Son, and that son lived as a man on earth among men, and hung on the cross as a sacrifice of God. And shed his blood so that we could be saved. And friend, he declared once and for all that any man who comes to God through Jesus Christ will not be cast out. Now that's love. That's more than staying love, that's showing love. That's real love. Let me close by saying this. It's a personal s decision. That delights the Savior. God 's pleased. We know it because we got it right here in the text God 's pleased when his children love each other. Mothers and dads, you've got more than one kid one child, don't it do your heart good to see them love each other? It's encouraging when you see them love each other. Breaks your heart when they don't But when they love each other, it please you. The Lord, when He when He looks upon His children and He sees this kind of love, it delights the Savior. It's pleasing to the Lord. Little boy attended a church clear across town, past three good Bible preaching churches. They said to the little fellow one day, why do you go so far to church? He said, because they love the fellow over there. Love makes a difference. Love makes a difference. Well, I studied myself under conviction. Now I've preached myself under conviction. I believe it's time we just stop and pray and ask the Lord to help us and work in our hearts. Brother, sister, what are you going to do with this truth? It's not my truth, it's just what the Bible teaches. It's what my precious Lord said to do before he left this earth. He said, love each other. How are we doing with that? I believe it's more critical than we realize, andor I can express, that we put this message into shoe leather. We preach to a world Jesus saves. But we live like we've not even been saved from our selfish selves. Paul said to some Christians in Galatia, Beware, he said, if you bite and devour one another, that ye consume one another. You know what? They'd become cannibal Christians. They eat each other up And if I can see a glaring thing in the world of Christianity, especially Bible-believing Christianity today, it's that we're cannibalistic. Now friend, it's I know it's vogue in this day it seems to hate uh people say, Well, I I love the Lord, but I hate I hate Christians. You can't say that. John made it very plain. If you hate your brother, you're in darkness. You're lying, not doing the truth. Listen, it doesn't matter the injustice, it doesn't matter the wrong we try to justify. Why do we justify our disobedience to the plain revealed word of God? I've been told to love. I've got a commandment from him. And he said, I want you to love one another. And listen, sometimes it takes, not sometimes, all the time, it takes the grace of God in our hearts to love like this. The more I studied this, the more I realized my puny little love won't do. God, you've got to give me something better, something bigger, something greater. Something outside of me. You gotta put in me, you gotta put in me what you've got in you. But aren't you glad he's willing? I believe he's willing. May the Lord help us this morning. May He help us to search our hearts. I love my church as more than a sticker we put on our chest. I love my church as more than just a theme we promote in a month. It ought to be the reality, every blood-washed, born-again child of God, because grace has so changed us. I could still see a man. I'd call his name, but he may listen. I can still see a man. And when this man got converted, he hate before he got converted, he hated everybody he ever met He was a menace. He was. He was one of them fellas, if something happened to him, you'd be like, thank God, we get some peace around here He was the first one that they called. I mean, every single Friday, Saturday night we got liquored up, he was he was terrorizing somebody Terrorized people at work, he was just a menace. Then he got born again. And I've never seen anybody change so quickly as this dear man did. All that hatred was gone in a moment of time. All that all that got burnt up out of his heart. And you know what was put back in its place? Love. God's love. Christ's love. And he loved people enough to tell them about Jesus everywhere he went. He told one man about Jesus, and that man punched him right fair in the mouth, busted both of his lips, and he said, Now what do you think of that? And he stood there with a quivering lip as he began to cry and said, they did worse than that to Jesus. He said, I love you and I don't want to see you go to hell. Now, folk, you don't get that sitting in a discipleship class filling in blanks. You get that when the God of grace moves into your old heart and makes you a brand new creature and changes you and makes you brand new. That 's grace. That's God. And church, this world needs to see God alive in us again. And that's why he said, By this, shall all men know that you are my disciples. If You have love one to another. Love may look like this morning, laying that nasty old grudge down That you've carried and soured and made made you it made you just put near spiritually sick. You've carried well they did they did that listen they face God That's the best place to leave it. They will face God. Let that thing go and get right and go on. Just go on. Ask God to give you love that excels and exceeds, love that will overcome it, because He can do that. This same Jesus who said to love each other hung on the cross and said, Father, forgive them. But they know not what they do. That's love. That's love. Oh, God, give us that. If you're here today or listening and you are not saved, You're not saved by loving others. You're saved by trusting Jesus Christ. And when you trust Jesus Christ, then he enables you to love others. I urge you today to call on him, to ask him to be your Savior, to forgive your sin, to cleanse you. Listen, he will not turn a deaf ear. To an honest prayer from a humble sinner who says, Lord, have mercy. He'll extend a mighty fast arm. He'll save in a moment of time He'll do the work that's desired because listen, he's come to seek and to save that which is lost. Would you let him do something in your heart today? If you're not saved, be saved. And dear brother, sister, What way, what way, as God the Holy Ghost said, love? Love like this. Love right here. Deal with this because that's what real love does. Let's mind him this morning, could we? Let's all stand together, come with the invitation him