That the Lord came to where you were. When you could not go to where he was, he came to you. You're not saved this morning because you're good folk. You're saved this morning because we have a good God. We're saved because grace and mercy intersected us on our road of rebellion. And God in his infinite wisdom and kindness did something that nobody else could do and saved us by his wonderful grace. Don't get over it. Don't get over it. I'm telling you, friend, there's a a great deal today of uh forgetfulness. Spiritual Alzheimer's. Forget where we were, what God did, his kindness in coming to save us. And God's so faithful. He's so faithful. The Lord gives me mercy to live till June of this year. I'll have been saved almost forty-six years. And I don't want to forget. I don't want to forget what it was for God to do a work in my heart. Just religious, religious still going to hell though. Uh knew all the language and learned all the things that we can learn, but had never been born again. But God in his mercy saw fit to show me I was a hellbound sinner. And I needed mercy from the Lord. And I appreciate God and His kindness. And I don't ever want to get to a place where it's just, oh well, I'm saved. You know No. Why it's a dangerous spot to live, brother and sister. It's a big deal to be going to heaven by the grace of God. Something to rejoice in. Something to praise the Lord for. May the Lord help us to do that Well, I want you to take your Bible, please, and turn to the book of Romans again. And I want to begin reading in verse number 8, and I'm going to read to the 15th verse, verse 8 to 15 this morning. And when you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand with me and we'll read. I'll read aloud if you'll follow along silently. Romans chapter 1, verse number 8. The Bible says, First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all. that your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. For God is a witness whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of His Son, that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers. Making request, if by any means, now at length, I might have a prosperous journey by the will of God to come unto you. For I long to see you, that I may impart unto you some spiritual gift to the end ye may be established, that is, that I may be comforted together with you by the mutual faith both of you and me. Now I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that oftentimes I purpose to come unto you, but was let hitherto, that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles. I am a debtor, both to the Greeks and to the barbarians, both to the wise and to the unwise. So as much as in me is, I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also. I'm going to stop reading there, and I want you to notice that little phrase here back in verse number nine. Paul calls the gospel the gospel of his son, the gospel of his son. Father, as we bow our heads before you, we acknowledge again our great need. Lord, we understand that the Bible is a spiritually discerned book. And so, O Father, may the Spirit of God be our teacher here today. Would you speak to us individually, collectively? I pray you'd have your way. Help us to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. Hide me behind the cross. May the gospel go forth, not in the enticing words of man's wisdom, but in the demonstration power of the Spirit of God. Lord, we ask you to be, Father, to have great liberty, to have freedom. And Lord, may the Word of God have free course. And above all, may the Lord Jesus be preeminent. And Father, for all that you do, we'll be careful to praise you and thank you. Thank you, Lord, for that sweet reminder this morning that you did find us in Lodabar, but didn't leave us there. Lord, I thank you that you brought us out and put us at the table of the King. And Lord, I want to thank you that that wonderful table of grace covers all the deformities of our sin and has made us brand new. Thank you, Lord, that we're new creatures in Christ Jesus. And Lord, if there's precious souls among us listening who are not saved, oh Lord, I pray that today would be the glad day they see the Lord Jesus as the only answer for their sin. And Lord, in mercy would you save them. Thank you now, Father, for your goodness and for the privilege we have to gather. Thank you for health and strength. And Lord, the clearness as far as they are clear on the roads for us to be here. We appreciate that mercy. And Lord, we love you and help us to love you more. And we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. If you remember on last Sunday morning we looked at the uh Romans chapter one, verses one to seven And we look specifically at the title, The Gospel of God. The Gospel of God. Now, the Gospel of God was a broad term. We looked at how that term, the gospel of God, built a bridge from the Old Testament to the New. The Gospel of God tells us that even in the beginning, the gospel was the plan and the purpose of God. The gospel is not something that God came up with when man sinned. The Bible says Jesus was as a lamb slain before the foundation of the world. Before the world was ever created, before a sinner ever sinned, there was a Savior who had been provided in the Lord Jesus Christ. But now this morning we see a whole different title, and you're going to see this through the book of Romans. This morning we see that Paul said that he was He served with his Spirit in the gospel of his Son. Now, while the gospel of God is a broad term, the gospel of his son is a very narrow term. The gospel of his son deals with specifics. See, the gospel is not a generality gospel. It is a very specific gospel. There are not three gospels or two gospels. There's not ten gospels. There's only one gospel. And that one gospel has to do with the Son of God. the Lord Jesus Christ. The specifics of the gospel are this. Paul clearly lays them out in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, especially verses 3 and 4. He talks about the gospel that he preached, which he had first received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scripture And that he was buried, and that he rose again on the third day according to the scriptures. Now that's the specifics of the gospel. I thank God for the day An old gospel hall preacher said to me, he said, Preacher, do you preach the gospel? I said, I sure do. He said, Well, do you preach the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ? And boy, it made me stop a minute and say, now, do you know you can preach around it and about it and not ever say it? Boy, that poked my heart. That pricked my heart. You see, it was the death of Christ on the cross for your sin and mine that atones for sin. Jesus paid it all on Calvary. And then when they put him in the grave, it proved that he died. He died for you and he died for me. But thank God he didn't stay dead. He got up on resurrection morning. And he's alive and well today. And beloved, listen, that is the gospel of his son. It's a very specific gospel. But not only is it a specific gospel, but this gospel has a single focus. Did you notice it's the gospel of his son? That's the gospel. It's not the Baptist gospel. It's not the Methodist gospel. It's not the Presbyterian gospel. It's the gospel of His Son. The single focus of the gospel is on the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. I love the old hymn, Jesus Saves. We sing about who saves? It's Jesus. That's the focus of the gospel. The focus of the gospel is about the Lord Jesus. I know the kids were singing. About Lodabar, and they're singing about Mephibosheth, and they were singing about what God did there and how David treated him. But all of that points us to a one person. It points us to the person of Jesus Christ. That just like Mephibosheth, I was a sinner, and just like David in his kindness went and got him Jesus Christ came and found you and me and brought us out of our lodabar and brought us into the family of God Set us down at the table of the King, covered us with the mercy and grace of God, so that now our deformity, look, we're all sinners, is what the Bible says. We've all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. We're marked by sin, but I'm glad the table of grace covers it up. You sit around the table if if you're if you wheeled up to it, or you're sitting there It doesn't matter if if your legs are broke, if one's missing or or something like that. Everybody's level around that table. And you know something around the the cross of Jesus Christ, the table's level, the ground is level at the cross, every sinner's gotta come the same way, lost, hopeless, and undone And every sinner's got to look to Jesus Christ because he's the only Savior. It's a single focused gospel. And then it's a saving gospel. This gospel's not in word, but in deed and power. This gospel is not something we talk, it's something that transforms our walk. This gospel is not something that is just simply put down on paper and adhered to by men in their minds. It is a marvelous, life-changing message of God. It leaves everybody different than the way He found them. That's the saving message. That's the power of this gospel. I think the curse, and and you know, William Booth, way back in the 1800s, made this statement That Christianity would become a powerless entity, that it would become such a thing that it would have a form and have no power. It would sort of have a mold and a message, but it wouldn't have no transforming power Well, we've come to live to that day. We're living in that time where much of the gospel that's declared is just simply something given mental assent to. It's something that's perhaps believed in the head and a and maybe acknowledged with the lips, but there's no life change. But everything I read in my Bible tells me the saving gospel of Jesus Christ will change your life. He will make you different. He'll take you. Now listen, if you're lost here or you're listening and you're lost, don't don't think for a moment I'm saying you've got to reform or you've got to change to come to God because you can't do it. You can't do it. You might try to clean up, wash up, fix up, but you know what? You can't change what you are. You can't change. I've said this before. You could go out here to the farm and you could get a pig and you could wash that pig, you could put perfume on that pig, you could paint its little piggy toenails, you could put bows in its hair or I guess they don't have hair put. Where do you put a bow on a pig? On its ears, around its neck? I don't know. Put it in its tail, its little curly tail. You could dress that thing up, turn it loose, and it'll go right back to the field. Because it's a pig. It's got a pig's nature. It it you you can you can do all that you want to do, but it's still a pig. And beloved, listen, you can you can try to be a good Christian, you can go to church, you can change, you can do all the things that you think you need to do outwardly, but unless Jesus shows up. And unless he puts a new heart inside of you, and unless he changes you, you're going to be the same old sinner that you were. You might be a cleaner sinner, you might be a better living sinner, you might be a better acting sinner, but you're still a sinner. But I'll tell you when Jesus comes in, you pardon the bad English, but you ain't what you were. When you get saved, he will change you and make you a new creature. Sure is the world. That's the power of the saving message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And my heart is stirred in these days to see so much gospel preaching and so little gospel living. There's great gospel proclaiming, and I think sometimes we proclaim it in such a way that it's sort of like a little anemic peel that won't hurt you too bad. My mother was scared to death to take medicine. In fact, she wouldn't take very much medicine. And uh she you'd try to tell, you know, this will this will but what will it do to you? She says, Well I I mean I i she'd taken aspirin with fear and trembling. Right. She hated medicine. And she would she would often have side effects, which I'm not sure were physical side effects. As much as they were, she thought it was really gonna hurt her, you know. She said, Well, those aspirins make me shaky. Oh, Mama, it's your bad nerves that make you shaky. I don't know But but nevertheless, she was afraid and she'd take just that wee little dose, and you knew it wasn't doing a bit of good for her, wouldn't do a thing for her. And I think sometimes we serve a gospel that is like just a wee little half aspirin, a baby aspirin. And we say, well it's not going to hurt you too bad. In fact, you just take Jesus and go on living your own way and do your own thing. It's not going to really change. You can take Jesus and still do everything you want to do. I've got news for you. That isn't the gospel Paul preached. And that's not the gospel the Bible proclaims. My Bible says if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. He is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, old things are become new. He makes you brand new. Many of you sitting here, I know you. God saved you and he changed you. It wasn't Mary Nathan Baptist Church. It wasn't uh it wasn't religion or bad, it wasn't anything, it was Jesus Christ He changed your life. He changed your heart. He made you something that you were previously not able to become, except He does it. That's the saving message of the gospel of His Son. I want to say about five or six things about the gospel of his son. We find them here. In fact, this is real practical what Paul describes starting in verse number eight. Number one, he says it's a gospel that is spoken of. Do you see that? He said, First I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all. That your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. Paul said, they're talking about you folk. They're talking about the difference Christ has made in Rome. Now, somehow or another we've got to back up and think about what it was like to live in Rome. Rome was the legislative power. This was the place where rules were made. But it was a city of great wickedness. It was a city of debauchery. I can't think of a city on earth that I could compare to Rome as far as the wickedness that existed in that community, in that country, among those people, as it did in Paul's day. It was placed where they killed for sport , where the lusts of the flesh were fed without hindrance. It was the place that was vile beyond the most wicked imagination possible. That's what Rome was. And yet God, in his mercy, went down there to Rome and started saving folk. And these people getting saved, Paul said, they're talking about you. They're talking about how God saved somebody in Rome, how God could save those Roman people. Do you mean to tell me that God could take someone given completely over to the lusts of the flesh and save them and make them brand new? I'm telling you, God can do that. I'm telling you that the gospel of Jesus Christ knows no boundaries to men. It can step into the vilest situation, the darkest of heart, the wickedest of people, and change them and make them brand new. That's the transforming or the spoken of power of the gospel. This gospel was talked about. It was visibly evident that a change had been made. You know when you got saved, if if you really got saved and maybe you weren't living a very good life before you got saved, people started noticing, didn't they? Dr. Hitchens has given us a testimony and and what they say when you went back to work, they said he's got religion. They said that you know uh brother Hitchens, well they can call him Brother Hitchens. I'm gonna call him Brother Hitchens He's got religion. No, he got saved. The lifestyle changed. The direction changed. Can you imagine that? Um Dr. Hitchens years ago, some of you may know this, was part of a band. Josiah sent me something the other day and they were talking about it on Facebook, about this band, this rock band that Dr. Hitchens was a part of back in them old days. And come in here to a service over here in that old building, the old chapel building, and hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. And then leave out of here, not the same man that he came. Oh, he had the same colored hair and the same colored eyes and had the same physical features But God in mercy had done something in his heart so that the man that left here wasn't the same man that came here. That and and I'll tell you what, that gets talked about. This gospel of his son is spoken of. I don't believe you have to wear a t-shirt that says I'm a Christian to prove you're a Christian. I don't believe you have to carry a Bible big as a coffee table to prove you're a Christian. You just let Jesus do something in your heart and everybody will know you're a Christian. It'll be talked about. They'll say, hey, did you know him before he got saved? Did you know who he used to be? Did you know what he used to do? Did you know what kind of person he was? But do you know he's not the same anymore He's brand new. He's different. And listen, it is a gospel that is spoken of. It was visibly evident. By the way, this adds viability to the gospel. Changed lives testify to the veracity of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now folks can argue theology and they do it all the time. You can argue Bible verses and you can argue this, that, and the other. But when somebody who was a wicked, vile sinner gets cleaned up, straightened up, starts living right, it's hard to argue with that. I've told you about my friend Brother Jack getting saved, and when Jack got saved, before he got saved, he was a drunkard, he was a fighter, he was a cusser, he was a vile old man. He was so wicked that before he got saved he set his house on fire and burnt up one of his little children. God mercy saved her life, but she's scarred now for the rest of her life because of his hatred for God and the gospel And then he gets saved. And when Jack got saved, he's been a Christian now, my he's been a Christian forty plus years, and still loves the Lord, lives for the Lord, but when he came back to that community, they said, oh no. Uh, you know, he'll he'll get over this. This it's just like anything else. He's turned over new leaves, he's quit drinking, he's gonna he's stopped fighting, he's gonna do all that, and it only lasts a day or two. I'll tell you what, when Jesus saved him and got a hold of him, he never went back to what he once was. He changed him. I'm talking about a gospel that is spoken of. Is our gospel spoken of? When you go to work tomorrow, do they now they they got all kinds of terms, but they're dead in their sin. They don't know why. But but listen, do they say, oh there comes old holy roller roller holy help me Lord, my tongue here is tied up Uh Holy Roller Charlie. I was trying to put all that together. Too many L 's in there. But here he comes, you know. You know what that is? That's a gospel that's spoken of. He's different now. He's not the same man he used to be. Brother Lee, you're not the same man you once were. You've been changed by the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And listen, that is a gospel. We need a salvation that's not anemic in nature, but demonstrates the mighty power of God, a gospel that will change lives. Oh, listen, it's a gospel that's spoken of. Secondly, it's a serving gospel. Look what he said in verse 9. For God is my witness whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of His Son. Service is always or should be salvation oriented Why do you do what you do? Can I ask you a few questions, choir? Why do you get up here and sing? Why do you stand over here and sing a special? Why do you play an instrument? Why do you hand out a track? Why do people clean this building? Why do people move snow? Why do we put down salt and what have you? Why do we why why why do we do the things that nobody else look I could stand here for 30 minutes and name things that you don't know gets done every week. Done by somebody different, somebody else. And throughout this church are people that do what they're supposed to do week out, week in, week out, day after day. And why do we do it? I'll tell you why we do it. Because we want to see people saved. Service is salvation oriented. If it has any other orientation, it's off base. If we sought to be seen, missed it. We just missed it. I if if we uh uh years ago had a man he he got mad he used to always uh shovel the snow off the sidewalk. And where the little church sat, we were at the head of the of the Bay of Thundy, and so when the wind blew, which it always did, it would drift snow. And so every service you had to shov shovel snow, push snow. Every service, I mean I've gone there before, and the door handle be about right here and the snow be there. And you have to dig and get your way in And so he he got it in his heart to come and do that every service. And so he'd make sure that snow's off away from the doors and the sidewalk where you could pull up and come in. That's what he did every and then he started getting mad about it And I remember he he he he would say something like this, did you notice that I shoveled that snow from the door? I'd say, yes I did. Thank you, brother. And then I'd hear him every once in a while. He'd open the door and he'd say, uh somebody'd be coming in. He said, did you notice there's no snow snow at the door? And he came to me one day and he said, Preacher, I'm tired of doing this. I have not been thanked, he said, in three long months. Now hold on a minute. Don't think you're better than that. You're capable and I am too. Nobody recognizes what I do. Nobody sees what I do. Huh? You ever had that little pea party? Nobody appreciates what and and boy he was stomping mad. And I said, brother, listen, we really appreciate it I I mean it just snows so often we're just grateful somebody does it, you know. And anyway, we went that week to a men's meeting And in that men's meeting, Brother Doug Fisher preached a message about the last tribe who followed the tribe, the children of Israel, through the wilderness. And without preaching that message, I want to say this. If you were the last in line, you had a nasty job. Yeah. You you study it, that tribe had to come along and they had to clean up all the dirt. They had to pick up all the trash. They had to clean up as they made their way through. Now the children of Israel had rules in place where they were to uh take care of themselves and to keep things clean, but ultimately this tribe had the responsibility of being the clean-up crew. And God recognized them. And he preached about doing things nobody sees but God does. I remember driving home that night for two reasons. One, it was in a blizzard and it was cold as blue blazes. And this brother said as we went home, sitting there crying, which is not anything those Canadian men were prone to do. And he said, I'm so sorry. He said, God's been watching He said, you know what I did? I forgot who I was doing it for. Boy, it's easy to do that. It's easy to forget who you're doing it for. It's awful easy to forget why we're doing it. What's our service all about? It's about salvation. It's about uh getting the gospel out. Look, the the preaching of the gospel doesn't just take place right here behind this pulpit. There's a thousand other things go on that make that possible. And what I'm saying is our service must be uh must be gospel oriented. The gospel of his son is a serving gospel. Paul's vision here and the vision of these Christians was the advancement of the gospel. I read the story of a dear old lady back in the hills of Virginia. Who who she had no money, she had no way to serve, and yet she wanted to in some way. She she couldn't teach a class, she couldn't read And so uh she she heard about a message, a man preached about a cup of water being given in his name, that that would not be despised, that God would reward that. She said, you know what? I got the best spring in the whole county on my property. And so from that day till she went to heaven, she brought a little mason jar full of water and put it on the pulpit for the preacher. He didn't always drink it, didn't always use it. In fact, that preacher said he felt kind of like that water that David's men got him out of Bethlehem. He said it almost seemed too holy to drink. He said it was it represented something so special. But yet you know what she is doing? She wanted him to keep his uh whistle wet so he could preach the word of God. She wanted people to get saved in that community. She wanted the gospel to go forth. Brother, sister, listen. This gospel of his son is a serving gospel. It puts in you a desire to see the gospel advance for the glory of God. That's why we give to missions and send missionaries around the world. That's why we pray for our missionaries and get involved with what's going on. And we ask God to do something for them. Why? Because we want to see souls saved. At the end of the day, it's salvation oriented. Quickly, number three, this gospel is a spiritually gifting gospel. You notice what he said? He said he wanted to come by the will of God in verse 10. Why? Verse 11, that I may impart unto you some spiritual gift. Now, Paul was an apostle to the Gentiles. And Paul had a responsibility and God would use him, these are Bible days different than they are now in a sense in that There would often be an impartation of gift or the giving of gifts at the hands of these men. They had that office and they had that privilege. Now we live in this age of grace, and the gifting comes strictly from the Holy Ghost of God, who comes to live inside of you. And the Bible says that if you have not the Spirit, you're none of His. So that means everybody who's saved has the Holy Ghost. And everybody who's saved has the Holy Ghost has at least one spiritual gift that God's given you. Every one of you. Every one of you have it who are saved have a spiritual gift that God's given you And that spiritual gift, I like how Paul says it here. He says in verse 12, I may be comforted together with you by the mutual faith, both of you and me. He was going to minister, they were going to minister. There's going to be a mutual faith, a mutual ministry. He was going to help them, they were going to help him in a spiritual way. Um, how many of you know what it is to have something on your body not work? Somebody said, Preacher, half of mine don't even function. But something on your body not work. Uh some time ago back during the fall I was I was leaf blowing and I I'd gotten this new leaf blower and and I was giving it this and and before I knew it I'd I'd blown. I mean you know at the campground you can blow leaves for Months. And never move all the leaves. And so I was doing that for about two hours a day. And I I pulled whatever this is that keeps all this mess together right here. And you know I never realized how important my elbow was. And and and and it began to not operate right and it's still not functioning quite well. And and you know everything you go to do, yes I was doing something, and I and I went to do that and I went, Oh that hurt. You're not working right, aggravating thing. And and and it fa it affects you, right? You know what I'm trying to say? The spiritual gifting of the body is so that it'll all work right. Paul said, we're members one of another. That means just like my elbow keeps all this together, you and I are connected one to another who are saved. And because of that, if part of us ain't working right, if we're not utilizing the spiritual gift and God gave us, then we're suffering because of it. I really believe that when God puts the church together, he does it right. I just trust him with that. I believe that he puts who it he puts the person, the people in the church that ought to be in the church And he does so because he knows the gifts that you have and the gifts that I have. And he puts us all together. And he says, now I want you to function as a body. See, this is not a one-man, those old gospel hall preachers, you know, they they don't have a pastor, they do have a pastor, you just don't have that title But they would always make fun of our church and say it's a one-man show. I said, that's crazy. I said that you just showing your ignorance, man You don't know all all that goes on. It's not a one-man show. There's one man who leads the church and is the pastor of the church who preaches the word of God, but there's so much more. The body, the body, the body's got to function together. This gospel of his son is a spiritually gifting gospel. See, the gospel enables you, when you get saved, God gives you something. I'm not talking about natural talent. Spiritual gifting is not natural talent. It's not natural ability. It's something God gave you when you got saved. And I want to ask you, do you know what it is? Now I don't have time, I'm not going to take the time this morning to point out all the spiritual gifts, but they're found in your precious Bible, and you ought to pray and read and say, now God What is it that you made me to do? The Holy Ghost will enable me to do so that I can help the whole body. See, the goal is to build the body, the goal is to edify the body. Why? So that we can win sinners of the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul said, I'm coming to impart some spiritual gift, and we're going to be both mutually comforted and edified. There's going to be a helping of one another because we have the Spirit of God in us enabling us. Listen, if God has given you that gift of exhortation, use it. I can't get through my head why we think sometimes we'll encourage somebody too much. You can't die from an overdose of encouragement. It's a lie of the rotten devil. Not to use the gift of exhortation. Because I'm going to tell you something. You know and I know, this is a wicked, cruel world we live in. And you face a whole lot more discouragement than you do encouragement. You face a whole lot more obstacles to do right than you do exhortation to. I'm saying that if God has given you some gift, you use it and use it to the glory of God. Use it for the building up of the body. Use it So that souls can be reached with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Find out what it is. Find that vocation. Find that calling. Find that gifting. God, what is it that you enable me and want to enable me to do So that I can do that for the glory of God and the good of souls. That's what the gospel does. By the way, the gospel's not a spectator sport. Oh, may the Lord help us to be clear here. God didn't save you to sit on a pew and soak and sour and Sink away. That's what happens. People get saved, and they just sort of get set, and they sing as their motto, I shall not be, I shall not be moved. And yet God doesn't save you for that. He gives you a gift and he says, Now serve me. Serve me in some way. Serve me in a manner in which others can see Christ and be pointed to Jesus Christ. He saved me to employ me. He saved me to employ me. Well, quickly, number four of this gospel is a sovereignly directed gospel. Look in verse 13. Paul said, Now, I would not have you ignorant Brethren, that oftentimes I purpose to come unto you, but was let hitherto that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles You know what he said? He said, Lord, you're directed. This gospel's directed by the Lord. By the way, we want to advance the gospel, but it's not our plan we need to follow, it's his. Acts chapter 16, Paul said, I wanted to go here and the Spirit forbade me. Wanted to go to Asia? The Holy Ghost said no. Wanted to go this way? God said no. Then he heard a uh had a vision, he heard a man from Macedonia say it, come over and help us. Come westward with the gospel. What I'm trying to say is that it is God who advances the gospel. It is the voice of God that instructs and directs. You know, sometimes we think we know what God wants done. Well what we need to do is say, now God, what wilt thou have me to do? He's the one directing the gospel. It may be he's closing doors because he's got nothing over here he wants to open. It may be, and you know what? If we're not careful, we'll get so narrow and focused, and we'll get so centered on what we want to do. Hear me. I believe God moves his workmen. And you don't have to agree with me. But I'm going to tell you what I see in the Word of God. I see God moving workmen. Where he wants them. For what he wants them to do. For a time, a place, a purpose. God does it. If Paul didn't go to Macedonia, I'm looking at a bunch of people that would have been in darkness like Asia. But for whatever reason, God said go west with the gospel, and the gospel went west. God has a reason, and I don't always see that reason. I don't understand that reason. And a lot of times I might have reasons, but they're really just my reasons. They're not God's reasons. God's reasons is that He wants to advance the gospel. You know there's things that God has done in my life I don't understand. I really don't understand. I don't know why God says here, there, this, that, the other, and all that. I have I had in my mind a plan. I had since long divorced my plans and said, Lord, your plan, not mine. And the thing about God is He don't give you His plan in future. He just says, today. Today. Today. Pastor Dickerson told me when I first met him back in June of 2015, he said, you know, I never intended to stay here all these years. He said I just did every day. It was just day by day. And I was thinking as this as I was preaching and preparing to preach this message about God directing, and we don't know what he's doing, but here's what we can rest assured is God is getting the gospel out. He's advancing the gospel under his direction. It is a sovereignly directed message. God say, there might be, listen, God may say Hey, I want you to go and share the gospel here because there's something you say, not there. Nobody will get saved there. There's nobody going to listen there. And God says, Hold on a minute. I'm the one who's directing this thing, not you. You go there because the gospel needs to be preached I was just thinking of this, you know, a as some of you know uh that the the Lord let us how can I put this The Lord let us be pastor here for nine months, and then for seven months, the Lord let me go on a mission trip. And you know, I was thinking this the other day. There's two women who are going to be in heaven because of that seven month mission trip. One of 'em's the pastor's wife right now. And and the other one it has uh uh how many children does Sarah have? Fourteen. I think their goal's nineteen. But I believe they got fourteen at this current moment. Every time you see and and and the the husband, he just bought a bus and I said, Brother, are you gonna feel that? He said, It's my goal I said, well, fill her up, buddy. You just if that's what the Lord wants, go at it. But but both of those ladies got saved in those seven months. Both were church members, and both, if you would ask me, are they model, they'd be model Christians Live separated lives. I mean grew and were trying to do right, but both of them said this. All it was was exterior. All I had was a shell I wasn't saved. I I remember when that first lady came, she she her and her husband came after church and she said, Hey, we got to talk to you. I'm not saved. And her husband, he about fell out of his chair. You're not saved No. She said, you know, I tell you there's something missing all the time. She said, you know, I tell you that I just don't seem to have what I see other Christians have. She said, that's what it is. I don't have Jesus. And that precious lady asked the Lord Jesus to be her Savior. What I'm trying to say is that God sovereignly directs in this thing of the gospel God, just let God be God and you and I do what He tells us to do. Number five, there's a seizing of this gospel. This is a seizing gospel. Let me get through these two and we'll be through. Verse 14, notice he says I'm a debtor. Both of the Greeks, the barbarians, wise and the unwise. The gospel took hold of him. And by the way, the gospel will take hold of you, and when it does, you'll have a a an inborn desire to see people saved. One good way you know you're saved is you don't see somebody else get saved. One thing's sure, if you're saved, you just can't keep it to yourself. This isn't like a secret fishing hole. My son was little, we'd start catching fish in a place. I said, Now we go to church, you keep your mouth shut. Because them other men are going to say, Where'd you fish? And and they w they were the sneakiest outfit. They'd pulled Joe, little Joe aside. They know he'd sing like a canary. And and they'd say, Where'd you fish, boy? Oh, me and Daddy were down at Mill Creek and we were fishing this bush, and then we call we call fifty of them. You know. Fishermen don't tell other fishermen where you're fishing, right? You keep that business quiet It might be exciting, it might be something you want to tell, but you better keep it quiet because if there'll be no fish there. There'll be no fish there This gospel will get a hold of you. And I'm talking about the saving kind of gospel. And you know what? You'll want to see people saved. You want to see your brother saved, your mother, your daddy, your aunts, your uncles, your cousins. You want to see those people that are precious to you. You want to see your sisters, your brother. Hey, you want to see everybody saved. You've got a desire. Oh, there's something burning in you. And they may not understand it. They may not get it. But you've got it inside of you. That gospel's taking a hold of you. And you become a debtor now to everybody You want to see everybody saved. There's not a people you don't want to see saved simply because this gospel makes you a debtor. And then it is a gospel that needs to be spread. Look in verse 15. He says, I'm ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also. There was a vast multitude. You you stop and think about it. You've heard the old saying all roads lead to Rome? Well they did This was not only a legislative center, but it was a trading route. And listen, if the gospel, here's what Paul understood, if we can get the gospel to Rome, that gospel can go everywhere. That's what he wanted. He he said, look, this gospel's got to be spread, and you'll notice that Paul strategically hit these big population areas and said, That's where I'm going, because the gospel needs to go. The gospel needs to go, the gospel needs to go. He had a burning desire in him to spread it. It's got to go. There's a vast multitude. And Marinath the Baptist Church, can I tell you, we may live in Elkton, Maryland. We may be in Cecil County. There may be churches around every bin, but there are sinners on every street who've yet to hear the gospel and need Jesus Christ. There's people everywhere you go. I don't care where you live, what community you're in, there are people who need the Lord Jesus Christ There's people who need to be saved, and listen, God has put you there strategically, sovereignly, so that you can bear witness and say he's the savior of the world. You don't save them and I can't save them. But I'll tell you what we can do. We can faithfully say Jesus saves. Jesus saves. We can lift our banner. You remember what the Bible says? The Lord our banner? That's one of his names We're to lift that banner up, that enzyme, that example, that representation, and we can say, here's the answer, he's the answer. I believe our great flag of the United States has stood for centuries. It has stood as a beacon of hope and freedom. And that flag has motivated men and women and and and and stirred them. You think about how when that flag was raised there in Iwo Jima on mountain on the mountaintop and that great flag as it began to blow me in the wind, the breeze, I'll tell you those soldiers got courage and the enemy began to shiver inside and say, hey, they've taken over. They're they're winning the battle. The gospel is the flag of the Church of Jesus Christ. We hold up that flag and we say, Jesus is the answer. We're not flying the Baptist flag. We're not flying our Protestant flag because we're not Protestant. We're not flying religious denomination. Here's what we're flying Jesus, he saves. He's the answer, church, for this country. He's the answer for your family. He's the answer for this old world. We're not going to fix this thing in Washington, though a lot needs to be done. We're not going to fix this thing by going overseas and making pacts and treaties and agreements. I'll tell you how we're going to fix it. When saved men and women get uh a hold of the gospel, and the gospel gets a hold of them, and they go out here and start telling people, do you know Jesus? He's the answer. He's what you need. It don't matter who you are, what political party you're a part of. You just need Jesus. He'll straighten you out. People need to be saved. And you have the privilege to rub shoulders with men and women every single day who need the Lord Jesus. You do? People that nobody else will be able to talk to but you. It might be what God's brought you through in your life has put you right there. And nobody else went through that. Nobody else endured that. Nobody else encountered that but you did. Why? Because God wants you to get ready. Because here comes somebody else, and you can identify and you can say, hey, can I tell you something? Jesus makes a difference. He saved me, and he'll save you. You might be sitting here wondering about your past and all the disappointments and all the things that have happened to you and you're saying, Why'd that happen to me? Why did I go through that? Did God not care? Hey, let me tell you something. God is just getting you ready so you can help somebody else God was bringing you through all of that so that you could be a witness and point others. God may have brought you through a horrible situation to give you a heart of compassion for others who are going through the same thing. So you can say to them, Jesus is the answer. Jesus is still the answer. Man, it's a gospel that needs to be spread, all the magnitude of the gospel of His Son. Now, my friend, let me ask you a very simple question. Do you know him as your personal Savior? You can be a member of a church. You can have gone through waters of baptism. You can do a lot of religious things. But if you don't know Jesus, you're not saved. And you need to be, and the good news is you can be. You can be saved this morning. You can be saved before you leave this building. You can be saved before we close this service. By simply crying out, Lord, have mercy on me. Understand, Lord, I'm a sinner I'm on my way to hell, and I need a Savior. God have mercy. Crying out to him. And I promise you this on the authority of this Bible and the person of the Son of God, He does not ignore. Please for mercy. He'll come to your aid. He'll come to your rescue and he'll save you. Now you might be a Christian here today, and your heart's got cold. I'll tell you one thing we're going to have to guard our hearts against in these last days is the abundance of iniquity making our hearts cold. See so much, hear so much, exposed to so much, that we just sort of get a a shale. Sort of a callus around our hearts, and we uh we can drive by and see somebody ODing and say, well, that's just life. No, that's a soul. Jesus died for him, her. And you know what will help them? You know what'll change them? Let them get saved. God has a marvelous ability to take the appetite for drugs out of a man's life. The Lord took that desire for alcohol out of my father. My mother fussed and many other things and so many other people did and he suffered because of his stupidity. But I'll tell you when he got born again, that love for liquor left his mouth. And he'd tell you itself, he's in heaven now, but he'd tell you this. He'd say the Lord did that. If fussin' and fighting would have done it fifteen years previous, that would have been took care of. I'm just trying to say that there are there's a need out here. There's people don't let your heart get hard. Don't look at people and see them, well, you know, that's a drug act, that's a drunk, that's somebody they deserve they they chosen this, that, the other. No. They need the Lord. That's where you'd be if it weren't for grace. That's the mess you'd be in. Listen, they need Christ, and Jesus Christ is the answer, and somebody's got to tell them. Somebody's got to tell them. This gospel of his son. Oh, may God give Christians compassion and a burning desire to point people to Jesus Christ afresh and anew. Would you stand with me please, Brother Thou come? Father, have your way and help us this morning.