And go with me to the Revelation chapter number twenty. Revelation chapter number twenty. We'll read the entire chapter. I don't know how much of it we'll cover. But I do want to read the entire chapter, Revelation 20. Only 15 verses in this chapter, and we're entitling this chapter in this study, The Dawn of a New Day. You'll see why we're calling it that, because it truly is the dawn of a new day as we begin the millennial reign of the Lord Jesus on earth. Revelation chapter 20 and verse 1 says, And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit, and a great chain in his hand. And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is called the devil. And Satan and bound him a thousand years. And cast him into the bottomless pit and shut him up and set a seal upon him that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years should be fulfilled And after that he must be loosed a little season. And I saw thrones, and they that sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them. And I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus and for the word of God, and which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads, or in their hands. And they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection. On such the second death hath no power. But they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years. And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison, and shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle The number of whom is as the sand of the sea. And they went up on the breadth of the earth, encompassed the camp of the saints about, and the beloved city, and fire came down from God out of heaven and devoured them. And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and night forever and ever. And I saw a great white throne in him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them. And they were judged every man according to their works. And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. There are four very distinct events described in Revelation 20. And I want to look at as many of these as we possibly can here this evening as we consider this dawning of a new day. Now, some may say, preacher, I don't believe there's a literal thousand years. Well, I wonder why God went to the trouble to say it over a half dozen times in this handful of verses. Specifically thousand years, thousand years, thousand years, thousand years. I believe that there's a literal thousand year where Jesus will reign upon this earth. And I believe he's emphasizing that for us and for our good. He's making it clear over and over again that there will be a period of time Upon this earth, we call it the millennial reign of Christ, where for 1,000 years Jesus will rule on this earth. Can you imagine what kind of day that's going to be? I don't generally read out of other books from this pulpit, but this is so good I wanted to share it. John Phillips wrote this. He said, the golden age has come. The armies of the nations have been disbanded and the great military academies have fallen into ruin and decay. The machinery of war has been melted down and converted to the implements of peace. Jerusalem has become the world's capital. The throne of David is there. The twelve apostles are judging the twelve tribes of Israel. For Israel now rules the world. The millennial temple has been built to crown Moriah's Brow. The nations of the earth come there to worship the living God Prosperity is evident from pole to pole, and from the new river which now graces Jerusalem to the ends of the earth. Poverty is unknown. Every man has all that heart can desire There are no prisons, no hospitals, no mental institutions, no barracks, no saloons, no houses of ill repute, no gambling dens, no homes for the aged and infirm. Such things belong to the past and lesser age. The bloom of youth is on everyone's cheek. A man is a stripling at a hundred years of age. Cemeteries are crumbling relics of the past and tears are rare. The wolf, the lamb, the calf, the lion, the cow, the bear, the child, and the scorpion are all at peace. Jesus has come and the millennium is here. The golden age, so frequently heralded by the prophets of Israel's past, has dawned at last, and the earth is filled with the knowledge of God. Jesus is Lord, and he rules the nations with a rod of iron. His reign is righteous and nations obey. The principles of the Sermon on the Mount are now the laws of the kingdom, and men obey them Because infractions are not allowed. Sin is visited with a certain and swift judgment, and this error lasts for a thousand years. You know what that makes me want to say? Even so, come quickly, Lord Jesus. Doesn't that make you long for that glad day? All the children of God, all who are saved by the grace of God, long for a day like that. We look forward to that time when righteousness shall reign upon this earth. Well, Revelation chapter 20 describes that for us. You say it's lacking detail. Well, it may be lacking detail because there are great events that are being described. It's as if John says you've got the Old Testament to get all the details that were that were given about this period I'm going to let you see what is about to come. The dawn of a new day. Oh my. In this world of sin and sorrow and Of care and all sorts of conflict. Aren't you glad there's a brighter day coming? Let's pray together. Father, we need your help. I pray you'd speak. Undertake for the needs of our hearts and help us from the Word. We humble ourselves in your presence, acknowledging, Lord, that both the preacher and the hearer need great help from above. And I pray that you would do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. And we'll praise you and thank you now for all that you do, for we pray in Jesus' name, and God's people said Amen Would you look with me at the first great event that's described? And it's described in the first three verses. The binding of the devil. The devil is bound. The Bible says, and I saw an angel. I don't know why that just thrills me so, but it does that there's one single angel. It's not going to take a host. It's not going to take a myriad. It's not going to take all the angels. Just one little angel is going to be assigned to do this job. This angel, it says, will come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand. I want you to notice that single angel is going to be sent on a certain mission, and his mission is to find the devil. Look at verse number two. He laid hold. There are four names given to the devil. Do you see this? He laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years. There's the first statement of period of time, the setting of time. So for a thousand years, the devil is going to be bound Now, the millennial, the millennial reign of Christ would not be the place of paradise that it's going to be if the devil was still roving around. He's gotta be dealt with. I mean he's gotta be put in his place and dealt with in such a way that he no longer has influence over the nations and influence over the peoples and influence over what's going on. So he is bound for one thousand years. Verse number three, and cast him into the bottomless pit. By the way, this is the second time that the bottomless pit is mentioned in Revelation. Remember the first time it was mentioned that it was opened up And out of that bottomless pit came all those evil spirits that had been bound for so long and were allowed to be unleashed upon the earth. It's back into that same bottomless pit that Satan himself is going to be thrown into. And watch this, and shut him up and set a seal upon him. That he should deceive the nations no more. Here it is again, till the thousand years should be fulfilled. And after that he must be loosed a little season. See The Bible makes an emphasis on purpose on this period of time because it's a set time. It is a distinctive time that there will be the binding of the devil. Now can you imagine an earth where there is no devil? Can you imagine a place where there's no no influence of hell? There's no influence from from Satan, and there's no influence from the vast hordes of demon uh his armies that that do his bidding Can you imagine a place where there's no longer the curse of sin upon the earth? Can you imagine a place where where there's no longer going to be That sting that sin has brought into the race of mankind. Can you imagine what it's going to be like when we don't have to deal with the powers of darkness no more? That day's coming, church. The devil is going to be bound. And the word that is used in Revelation is the same word that was used there at the Garden Tomb, a seal set upon it. And you know something? The old devil thought he had done a deed when Jesus died on the cross and they sealed that garden tomb. But thank God the one on the inside had the power to break the seal. He's the king of kings and the Lord of Lords. He's got power over death and life, and he broke that seal. Now this seal he can't break. The devil can't break. Now Jesus is going to set it. He's going to set a seal, and the devil has no more influence. But what a day it's going to be when Satan's influence is removed. No longer will nations study war. Isaiah said they're going to turn their weapons into plowshares. In instead of fighting, they're going to be farming. He said it's going to be such a productive time upon the earth. that the very uh the the very earth is is going to yield such fruit that the man plowing is going to be overtook by the man reaping. There's going to be such a cycle, a swift and quick cycle of reproduction of life on earth. I mean, it's going to be something. You and I don't have the imagination or the understanding to really get our heads around what the millennial reign of Christ is going to be like on this earth It's going to be an incredible time. Imagine John Phillips said that a stripling will be a hundred years old. Listen, age will not age you. There's a statement in the Bible, I've said it before, but it always sort of makes me laugh a little a little. It says he was well stricken with years. You know. That's kind of got my mind, you know, that years beat you up. I'll say amen to that. Years have a way of beating you up. But can you think about it? I mean a hundred years old is going to be just a boy. This there will be people, understand this, there will be people who will live throughout the entire millennium That's not a foreign thing. We know that when God first made man, you had been living hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years. I love when science finally catches up with the Bible. And I was reading something the other day in a medical journal that said, from all appearances Our bodies are made to last forever. They have a way of repairing and healing and and and restoring themselves in such a way that it looks like our bodies could live forever if we could just find the proper uh you know ingredients to keep that thing going. Well we know what did what stopped that. We know that it was sin. When sin entered into the human race, death passed upon all men. And so we know that sin is the reason we age and sin is the reason we die. But can you imagine a day when sin will no longer rule and when the devil will no longer have influence and men will not be plagued like we are today? My, what on earth this is going to be. The devil's going to be bound. I want you to take great hope in this church. Peter told the uh he told the suffering saints there who were scattered into the various places around the world. They were being hunted and put to death by the devil and his hordes. He said to them that the Lord will crush Satan soon under your feet. There's going to come a time of victory. Little little suffering church and struggling saint and b battle beleaguer beleaguered believer. Know this, there is coming a day when the devil will be dealt with in a in a decisive fashion. All the division he's caused, all the confusion he creates all of the hatred and animosity he stirs, there will come a day that the one who's rolled the stone will have the stone roll back on him. And he's going to be bound and cast into the bottomless pit. And I say, even so, come quickly, Lord Jesus. What today that's going to be. We see the binding of Satan. But then I want you to notice the raising of the dead. This is the second scene that's described, or the event that's described in this chapter. In verse 4 John said, I saw. He's looking at something here. He said, I saw thrones, and they that sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them. Now who's sitting on those thrones? He describes them as those, he said, I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus. And for the word of God, which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads, or in their hands. And they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years I want you to notice that these who are reigning with Christ are the saints of all the ages We're including those saints who have been raptured. We're including those saints who have been martyred, and they together are going to rule and reign through that 1,000-year period. Now the Bible teaches us in several places. Paul told the Corinthians, you remember when they were bickering about uh problems in the church and they were going to law, they were going a and and suing one another and he said, why do you do this? You will judge angels. First Corinthians six. He said, you've got Uh the the Spirit of God in you, you're going to be placed in a seat of judgment, and you will judge angels. And then Paul reminded young Timothy, he said that you will reign with Christ. So the believers uh are as part of reward, I believe, are going to be sitting on thrones and be judging. If we're faithful to him, if we follow him, part of that reward is that we're going to reign with him as well. There's going to be responsibilities. There's going to be ruling. There's going to be thrones, if you will, places of authority that will be entrusted to God's little people. Now you think about this as we look ahead and understand that this is what God's got in store for his people. Now you say, preacher, what are the details? I don't know all the details. I don't know what God's going to entrust us with, but here's what I do know: the Bible says we'll rule and reign with Christ. And it'll be for a thousand years. Upon this earth below. Not only do I see these these who are sitting on the throne, but I see stages of resurrection. He says that that again they And they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. Verse 5, but the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. Now, brother and sister, if we look at the Word of God, we find out there has already something happened that involved a resurrection. In 1 Thessalonians 4, we read about the dead in Christ rising first. And then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. So when Jesus comes in the rapture, there's going to be a resurrection of the saved dead. But then the Bible teaches us when he comes in the millennium, there's going to be a resurrection of the martyred. Those who died during the resurrection or during the tribulation period, those that were put to death for the faith of the Lord Jesus. And I believe that these two are called the first resurrection. I believe the stages here make up the the the raptured uh saints and the resurrected dead and the tribulation martyrs And I believe the Lord here in Revelation 20 puts them all together and calls this the first resurrection. Now, once again, you say, preacher, what are all the details of that? I don't know. But I do know this that there's a definite distinction made between those raptured and resurrected saints and this resurrection that's being described here. And you find when we remember when we studied back Revelation 4, I think we have a picture there of what happened in the rapture, because we find it starts out, John heard a voice saying, Come up hither. And I believe in Revelation four you have a picture of the rapture of the church and the resurrection of the saved dead, and we're already up yonder in glory, and now the Lord comes in the second coming That second coming is when he comes back to this earth. We studied it last week in Revelation chapter 19. And when he comes back in that second coming, there's going to be another resurrection. It's the resurrection of those who were martyred during that great tribulation. This is the first resurrection. And then look at the security that's given to these believers. Verse 6, he calls us blessed and holy. Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection, on such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with them a thousand years. Someone said that truly happy and safe are God's people. Even those tribulation saints, remember what we've read about Remember how they suffered, how they endured uh great hardship, how they were uh hunted down by the uh by the man of sin, how they were put to death. And if they did not receive the mark of the beast in their forehead and in their hand, that they were instantly uh annihilated, they were put to death. But here's what he says. He calls them blessed, blessed and holy. You know something, it's a whole lot better to suffer for Christ than it is to stand with the world. It's a whole lot better, beloved, for for you and I, because I'll tell you, the sufferings for Jesus Christ have a limited time. They're only for a short period of time, but there's coming a day when he'll remove all of that and the glory that will follow. Listen, it you won't even remember all the sufferings that were endured down here. Blessed and holy. Is he that hath part in the first resurrection. Then he talks about this second death, and we'll see that later in this chapter. But I I want to move on and give you that third scene. We see the third event that will take place is the devil is loosed. Now you know when you read this passage of scripture, I I I find myself saying, why? Why turn him loose? I mean he's bound, he's dealt with. Why let him go? Well God has a plan. As a part of the uh of the dispensation of the millennial reign of Christ, you've got to remember something. There are people being born all through this thing. And there's going to be a multi - you say, where they I mean we're talking about a resurrected group of martyred saints and res enraptured and resurrected saints, and and the Bible says we can't we're like the angels, we don't marry or give in marriage, so where are all these children going to come from? These children are going to come from those Jews who get saved after the tribulation. There's going to be those those Jews who are alive. The Bible says when he steps over into that valley, that red rock, the city of Phetra, and he steps over and they see him, that says a nation will be born today. And there's going to be those human beings who were saved through the truth. By the way, when the Bible says they that endure to the end shall be saved, he's not talking to you. He's not talking to people who are alive right now. He's talking to those Jewish people who are going to be hid miraculously by God. and kept safe from the Antichrist during that last three and a half years. He's talking to those people, and those people who lived to the end of the tribulation will be safe because they're going to see the Messiah and he's going to convert the whole lot of them in a moment of time. But those people are going to be people, and they're going to re- although without the sin curse upon the earth, they're going to reproduce, and the earth is obviously going to be filled with people again. You say, how do you know that? Because the Bible says that crab that gathers against the Lord is going to be like the sand of the sea. When you see that statement in the Word of God, can I just say this as plain as I know how? That means a whole, whole bunch of people. The sand of the sea. Remember what God told Abraham? He said, Your descendants are going to be like the stars and the sand on the seashore. There are going to be an innumerable host of peoples at that day. And so there's going to be people born during the millennial reign of Christ. And there's going to be a great explosion, I guess we could call it, of the population. But I want you to notice that he's going to set free The devil. Verse 7 says, when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison. Now why is he doing that? There's going to be proof positive in the millennial reign that everything can be perfect, man will still sin. You know what we say today? We say, my environment made me like I am. Oh no. Your wicked, evil, lost heart made you like you are. I get so tired of people saying, well, my second grade teacher uh licked the red off my candy and and that's why I'm so ornery. That's not why. You're like that because you've got a lost, depraved heart. You're like that because you're born in sin. You've got an old sin nature. And here's what we're going to see in the millennial reign. There's going to be no environmental excuses for man to say, I'm like I am. It's all taken away. Sin will be dealt with swiftly. Judgment will fall immediately. There will be no ruling of unrighteousness. There will be no ungodliness. It's simply going to be a day of righteous order. Jesus Christ is going to rule this earth and reign on this earth and show man what he missed when he sinned in the Garden of Eden. And yet man will still sin. The Bible says that the sole intent of the devil in verse 8 will be to deceive the multitudes. He shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth. God can make God to gather them together to battle. The number of whom is this the sand of the sea. Here's something that really struck me, that it's going to be a whole lot of people who rebel against the Lord. Do you see that? The number of whom. There's going to be a large multitude from the four quarters. That means every part of the earth. There's going to be a large multitude who will follow the lies of the devil. And then I by the way, you know what's going to happen during the millennial reign? Same thing happens in a local church. You know what happens in a local church? Some people get gospel hardened. I've always feared for my children. I've begged and pleaded, oh God, please don't let them get used to the gospel. Don't let them get hard to it. You know what? And I pray that for our academy students. Because they're around spiritual things all the time. And the great danger of that is, is that you get hard to the gospel. You hear it, and you hear it, and you hear it, and you hear it, and you hear it, and you know it, and you know Point you nuts, but you don't do anything about it and your heart gets hard. That's a dangerous way to live. I'm telling you, there's probably more people, it seems, can go to hell off a church pew than anywhere else because their hearts get so hard to what they always hear. The gospel once moved them, the truth once stirred them, but they get to the place it's like water off a duck's back, it don't even stick anymore. Now people get gospel hardened in our day, in the millennium, they'll get glory hardened They're going to be hardened of the glory of God. Jesus Christ will rule on this earth. They're going to see the very glory in the person of Jesus Christ. He's going to live and rule and reign on this earth. He's going to sit on it on his Father David's throne, and they're going to see that glory. All the nations of the earth are going to come and worship him. You know the Bible says they're going to flow to the temple? If you know anything about the landscape there, there's no river running to the temple. But I'll tell you what's going to happen. The Bible says when he comes back, he's going to land on the mountain, he's going to split her wide open. They tell me, and I was reading something the other day in the Biblical Archaeology Review, that there are springs of water starting to sprout up. Unusual, they said. There's just this water that seems to be coming up uh out of the earth, up around that temple mountain, around that area. That there seems to be an increasing of water even though the rainfall has been down in that part of the world It's an unnatural thing, they said. There was one person who said it's an unnatural thing for this water to be rising up. I wonder if God's just not getting her ready. He's getting ready to split her open so that great river will flow and men are going to sail into that area and they're going to worship in the temple. And they're going to worship not like we do in spirit and truth. They're going to worship in sight. They're literally going to see him. We're here tonight by faith. Not a one of us has has seen the Lord Jesus with our eyes. Not a one of us Say, preacher, I I saw him. I come in somebody I tell you what, if you come to me after church and say I came in this building and I saw the Lord in that building and all that, I I'm gonna say you probably ought to go see your doctor Because we walk by faith and not by sight. We don't see the things we believe in. We're not laying eyes physically on the Lord Jesus. We're worshiping by faith. But there's coming a day when faith will be made sight. We're not going to be just coming by faith and believing what God says and resting on the truth of his word. We're going to see him, literally physically see him, and be in the presence of the glory of the Son of God. And there are people who are going to experience that and rebel against God. They're glory hardened. We grew up in the mountains and you know until I left the mountains I never appreciated them I can sit on the front porch of our little house that I was raised in, and Pinnacle Mountain's right here. She's 5 ,800 feet, just right in front of us, climbed her many times. We always dreamed me and my buddy we were little boys and we'd sit there and we'd say you know what when we get big we're gonna buy that mountain and I said well I want my house over here He said well I'll put mine over here He said, We'll fence it in so nobody bothers. We'll have we'll both live on that mountain. That was a pinnacle mountain. That was going to be our mountain. Then then over here's another mountain range right behind my house. And then right over here is the Blue Ridge Parkway, the Mount Pisgah, and all of that, just right there and right in your face. The another mountain range looking eastward, looking back towards the city of Asheville, the Black Mountain Range, you could see it. And and you know you grow up around that and you just think that's normal. You don't think about it being a spectacular sight. We were back in in uh well whenever it was, we were back in North Carolina a few months ago And uh every morning I'd get up and my mother-in-law lives just down the road from the house I grew up in, like from here maybe to the road And and her her little house points towards the Blue Ridge Parkway and towards those mountains, and every morning I'd go eat my breakfast on the porch. I didn't care if it was 20 degrees, I just love to sit there and look at those mountains. And I remember sitting there in the rocking chair looking at that mountain, and I thought, this is the most spectacular place in the world. How in the world was I so blind as a little boy? See, the beauty of it and the splendor of it was lost because I saw it every day. I got used to it. It was it no longer, I mean, it it was something you could just look at anytime you wanted to take a look But friend, listen, there's going to be people who are going to look at the Son of God and still reject him. They're going to see the glory of Jesus Christ. In the temple. They're going to see his person on the throne, and they're still going to rise up with the devil, and they're going to come against the pre the people of God and against God Himself and make war once more I want you to see the swift judgment that falls. Verse 9 says, They went up on the breadth of the earth and compassed the camp of the saints about, and the beloved city and fire came down from God out of heaven and devoured them. The Lord says, enough's enough. There's no more Armageddon, there's no more tribulation, there's no more, it's just immediate judgment, swift and certain from God. And verse 10, I'm glad enough will be enough with the devil, because he's going to be taken and cast in the lake of fire and brimstone where the beast and false prophet are and shall be tormented day and night forever and ever. I say amen right there. The devil's going to be dealt with decisively and finally all rebels will be removed. Oh, dear friend, listen, the devil's a deceiver from beginning to end. He's a dammer and destroyer, and every man who follows him will meet his fate. Every individual that follows him will go where he's going one day. Please hear me. The devil's nobody to play with. You know, he's a great promiser of many things, but he never delivers. He never carries through. You know, a lot of these advertisement companies have followed his lead because they always show the good and hide the bad. These liquor companies they'll and and beer uh commercials, they'll they'll show everybody having fun, everybody's young, everybody's just having a ball. Nobody shows the car wrecks. Nobody shows the the people who choke on their own vomit and die. No they they never show you the heartache, the little children that are neglected and the people that are that are abused and all of the trouble that this damnedable thing called alcohol brings to the earth. They don't show you the those the the those those horrible portraits, if you will, of all the suffering that's caused by by this thing. They show you everything that looks good. They don't show people dying with cirrhosis of the liver. and all the other health uh problems that are caused by alcohol. They just simply show you what's good. And the devil does that, church, all the time. He says, come follow me and look what beautiful things you'll have. But he don't show you the lake of fire, and he doesn't show you an eternity without God, and he doesn't show you all of the suffering that is to follow. He's a deceiver. But thank God he's going to get his due one day. Thank God he's going to be cast into the lake of fire. And I love those two words forever. Forever and let me add this and ever. There's never going to be an end. There's no more loosening. There's no more setting free Thank God forever and ever and ever and ever and ever, the old enemy who's been our enemy is going to be put down for time and eternity. The deceiving devil. Let me close with this. The dead are judged. You'll notice it says very clearly here he saw a great white throne. And him that sat on it from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them. What a scene. What a scene of terrible judgment. Do you notice there was nowhere to go? Couldn't get away. This great white throne rises and when it does, there's nowhere to go. There's people want to flee. These lost, these these who are not saved, they're being re Time of second death. And and the Bible says they can't get away. They want to get away and they can't get away. You ever have one of those crazy dreams where something's after you and you can't get away from it? You know, I was watching a I like to watch these nature programs, and I was watching this one about wolves, and I shouldn't have done that. And I had pizza to boot that night, so me and pizza and dreaming and all that's cr is just a combination for tragedy I'm watching this thing about these wolves. You know what I dreamed about all night? This great big wolf was after me all night long. Man, I couldn't get away from him. I tore the covers up and put near pulled the curtains off the wall. I made a fest through that night because I was trying to get away, and everywhere I turned, there it was. I could not get away from it. There's going to come a day when this in reality will take place because men will not be able to get away from the judgment of God. They can't escape him. This great white throne's got to be faced. Not only do I see the scene, but look at the subjects. Verse 12 and 13, the dead, small and great. We're talking about the lost, those who are not saved. They stand before God, the books were opened, another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them, and they were judged every man according to their works. The lost of all the ages are going to face the Lord. And they're going to face him, church. Know this. And there's a record kept. Now we believe there's going to be degrees of reward. There are varying rewards, different rewards. I also believe there are going to be varying degrees of judgment. Now, hell itself is just hell, and the lake of fire is a lake of fire. But according to this, he's going to judge them according to their works. There's going to be a degree of judgment that's going to fall. What a tragic man. If you're not saved tonight, can I just urge upon you stop and really listen to what the Bible has to say? Then notice the sentence. And death and hell were cast in the lake of fire. This is the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. That's the sad fate of all the unsaved cast into the lake of fire. What a sense. The most somber part of the Bible is what I just read. And my dear friend, if you're listening to this preacher and you've never been saved and you die in that state, I just read your fate. I take no delight in that There's no pleasure in the death of the wicked. Folks, hell is real. The lake of fire is eternal. And if you reject Christ, there will come a day when you will hear this awful sentence. Depart from me. Depart from me. I never knew you. And into the lake of fire you'll go. You know, we've been rejoicing a whole lot about going to heaven. But I'm struck with the reality tonight that not everybody's going. We talk about how wonderful heaven's going to be. And my dear friend, we often use terms we ought not use if we don't know. The truth of the matter is, not everybody who dies goes to heaven. We oftentimes will say things like, Well, they're in a better place. If they're not saved, they're not. I mean, if they've never been born again, they're not in a better place. They're better off living and suffering than dying and being forever removed from God. What a tragedy. But here is the final dealing with all who are lost. Here's God's final dealings. He's going to take all of those. You notice all these places where the dead are delivered up to him. And one by one, the Bible says, here they are. They're standing before him. They're being judged, and they're cast into the lake of fire. Oh, brother or sister, please hear me tonight. It's urgent that we tell people they need the Lord. They may laugh at you, they may make fun of you, they may hate you, they may reject it, but the truth is, oh, please warn them. Warn them. The reality is that without Christ, men suffer forever in the lake of fire. The truth of the word of God. There can't be a heaven without a hell. And there is a heaven and there is a hell. And know this that He's going to deal this awful sentence out, and the Bible says whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast in the lake of fire. And if you're not saved, I would be interested in how get how to get my name in the book of life. How do I get my name where I won't be cast into that place? Well, I've got good news for you tonight. There is a Savior named Jesus who paid the penalty for your sin. He suffered on an old rugged cross and shed his blood so that his blood could answer for your sin. He took your wrath and punishment and all upon himself, and he paid your sin debt in full. He was put in a grave after he died, and three days later he rose again. And he gives the gift of eternal life to whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. The only way to get your name in the Lamb's book of life is not you don't get it there by being good. You don't get it there by being religious. You don't get it there by being moral. You get it there by putting faith in the work of Jesus Christ, the person of Jesus Christ. When you put your faith in him, your name's recorded in the Lamb's Book of Life. And for all of eternity you're safe from that place called the lake of fire because God saved you by His grace. And tonight, if you have never been saved, let me urge you. I'm not inviting you to join the church. I'm not inviting you into the waters of baptism. I'm not inviting you to reform your habits. I'm inviting you to put your faith in one Look at him hanging yonder on the tree. Look at the Lamb of God who died for your sin. Realize there was somebody who loved you enough to pay you sin debt and to pay make a way for you to be born again Understand that there is a Savior and His name is Jesus Christ. He's alive and well and will save you right on the spot if you'll trust him. And I'll tell you what a salvation it is when you realize what's standing between me and hell. Understand this, Christians ought not to be proud people. Christians don't have nothing to boast about. We can't sit around here and put our thumbs in our spiritual suspenders and say we're awful good folk No, you know what our hope is tonight? What keeps us out of the lake of fire? What's standing between me and judgment? A man named Jesus Christ, the Son of the Living God. He's the only thing and the only one who's keeping us out of hell itself. Oh, that makes me want to love him more. That makes me want to live what life I've got left for him. That makes me want to say, Lord Jesus, you paid it all. I owe everything to you. How can we be cold-hearted when Christ did such a thing for us? How can we be indifferent about a salvation that's so full and free in the person of Jesus Christ? How can we be arrogant as Christians? How can we think we're something when we're nothing? How can we think that somehow or another we deserve what we've got? Listen, if God gave me what I deserved right now, He would take me and pluck me up and throw me into hell already. But because Jesus saved me, because the blood's been applied, I'm safe from the fire of judgment. I'm safe from that lake of fire. Not on my account, on his account. Now as a Christian, I can live forgiven. I can be free. I can go to the Father's throne. I can know that I'm His forever. I'm a part of the family. And it's all because Jesus paid the price. I owe everything to him. I've got to bow and say, Lord, I just want to thank you for saving me. You know in private it wouldn't hurt you every once in a while to say, Lord, I just want to I just appreciate you saving me. I want to thank you that you'd come where I was and do what you did. I want to thank you, Lord. I was religious and all of that, but I'm glad that God broke through my religion and opened my blind eyes and showed me I needed a Savior I'm glad he didn't let me go the way I wanted to go. I'm glad he didn't leave me in my sin. How many of you sitting here, you heard the gospel and rejected it? How many times did you turn away? How many times, listen, you're sitting here and there were time after time that perhaps you you closed your ears to the gospel, but the good grace and mercy of God kept coming back. The Lord in his mercy kept bringing a witness. The Lord in his mercy kept bringing a message, kept bringing the truth of the gospel, and he kept stopping by and knocking on your heart's door. How grateful we ought to be that God didn't give us all what we deserve. This salvation is full and free. And my precious friend, if you're not saved, oh I plead with you tonight, consider the claims of Christ. You say, Preacher, I want to see it for myself. Get your Bible and read the Gospel of John. Just read the Gospel of John and you'll start seeing what Jesus did. Get your Bible and start. Don't take my word for it. I wouldn't dare ask you to do such a thing. But here's what I would say: read your Bible and find out what God said. There is a way to be saved. Maybe the greatest word in the English language is that word saved. Saved. Saved by his power divine. Saved, the hymn writer said, the new life sublime. Thank God for salvation. Listen, dear friend, there is a way to be saved, and it's Jesus. He's the way. Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Don't think for a minute God has classes of Christians. Mm-mm. He don't have first these these folks that believe Baptists are somehow ahead of everybody else don't read their Bible enough. And somehow or another, they're a better class of Christian. There's no better class. You're either saved or you're lost. You're in or you're out. You're born again or you're dead in your trespasses and sin. And listen, we're all going to go in the same way through the Lord Jesus. And everybody in heaven is going to have to bow their head and say, I'm here because of him. Just him. Ain't no other word reason. There's no other reason I'm here. It's him. It's all about him. Have you not noticed throughout the revelation that all the worship is about him? All eyes are on him. All the work all the praise is directed to him. Everything's about him. Why? Because he's the reason we're there. He's the reason there is a heaven. He's what makes heaven heaven. Thank God for him, the Lord Jesus. And dear friend, if you're not saved tonight, let me urge you to put your faith in him. You say, I don't trust religion. Well, I don't either. Religion's the work of man. Salvation's a gift of God. Oh dear friend, please, if you're not saved. Consider this. A. B. Simpson wrote many years ago. That old missionary alliance founder, preacher. Born Prince Edward Island. I believe he is saved under the influence of some Gospel Hall brethren. A. B. Simpson said In regards to the Lord Jesus Christ, better think carefully what you do with Him. Because one day you're going to ask the question. What's he going to do with me? See, my fate's not in my hands. My eternity is not in my control. Jesus Christ is the one everybody here is going to face. And my friend, in his hand, right now is eternal life. There's no getting saved here. There's no repentance here. There's no getting right with God here. There's no timeout. Let me pray. There's none of that here. This is judgment seat. This is the great white throne. This is the time of God's dealings with man. What man did with Christ on earth, God's going to set forever in eternity and set the seal and it'll never be broken. So to reject him here is to choose eternally to live in the lake of fire. Oh friend, don't play with Jesus. Don't play with him. One day, precious friend, you're going to be asking, Lord, what are you going to do with me? And I'm glad everybody who's saved will be able to say, He's going to accept me. He's brought me in. He's redeemed me. He's made me his own. In all reality, when God looks at you, he don't see you. If he did, you'd be in trouble. He sees Jesus. He sees Jesus. Boy, don't that'll that'll help you for in your Christian life. You get down to pray and you feel lower in a snake's belly. Remember this. He's not looking at you. He's looking at his son. I'm going to him on the authority of Jesus. That's why I pray in Jesus' name. I'm coming through him. I'm coming through the blood. I'm coming to Christ because of him. Or coming to the Father through Christ. He's the reason I can have hope and peace and joy. And rest and confidence, it's all because of him. Trust him before it's too late. Dear brother, sister, let's value him. Adore him. Bow before him. Give our all to him. He's worthy. He's worthy. Of everything, every adjective you can imagine. Every Everything that you could employ in regards to him. He's worthy. He's worthy. Because he's who saved you and keeps you saved now. Would you stand with me please, Father, please make thy word real to I