Open your Bibles pleased Revelation chapter number one. And I want you to pray the Lord will help me to emphasize What I believe is being emphasized here in this first chapter. The Book of Revelation is a wonderful book. It's a book full of mystery. It's a book full of someone says, Well I've got Revelation all figured out. The Lord help you. The reality is, there's so much in the book of Revelation. But I believe that the key to the whole book lies near the front door. Here in the very first chapter, the very first words, really, you'll notice those first five words are the revelation of Jesus Christ. And the emphasis here in the beginning of this book is the emphasis that should be carried throughout on the person of the Lord Jesus. I want to preach the Lord helping me this morning on the revelation of revelation, or if you will, the sufficiency of Jesus Christ. John is going to be told some things. In fact, in verse number 19 of Revelation chapter 1, you see the outline of the whole book. Would you look at it, please? He said, Write the things which thou hast seen. That's chapter one. And the things which are. That's chapter two and three. And the things which shall be hereafter. That's chapters four all the way to the end, chapter twenty-two. Those those three things are what the book is about. But in chapter number one, we find that Jesus Christ, by the way I didn't read the whole chapter. I'd encourage you to do so because you see the name and the person of Jesus Christ stated over and over and over again. In verse number one, the revelation of Jesus Christ. In verse number two, the testimony of Jesus Christ. In verse number five, and from Jesus Christ. And he goes on to say in verse number 9, for the testimony of Jesus Christ. And then he gives us that awful description of the Lord Jesus himself. Now, compared to all of the things that Revelation tells us, the revelation of the Lord Jesus excels them all. The bowls, the vials, the trumpets, the horses, the battles, the spirits The Antichrist, everything it talks about throughout those chapters of chapter 422, all pale in comparison When you consider what's said about Jesus Christ in this first chapter. In fact, it really is that way in every situation. I don't care what you stack up beside him, there just ain't nobody like him. The Lord Jesus excels them all. And in this first chapter we see that so clear. And and I believe what is happening here is that the emphasis is being placed on the person of Jesus Christ for the benefit of the church. And I believe there's no greater need today than to go back to the centrality, to go back to the emphasis, to go back to the exaltation of the person of Jesus Christ. He is the answer. He is the answer. Look, he's not just a figment of our imagination. Now, there are figments of our imagination. There are elements to our imagination. There are things that are imaginary that exist in religion. There are imaginary things that exist sometimes in good people's minds that are just not true. The only thing that I have authoritative and definitive from heaven is the Bible I hold in my hands. And it's here I can define or understand who the Lord is. I'm grateful this morning that the Lord Jesus is not an imaginary figure. He's a very real person. And John, although he was allowed to see something that he could only see figuratively, yet in the midst was a figure who was not figurative. John saw the seven churches. Well, how do you see seven churches? He saw them represented in the seven golden candlesticks. And he saw the seven stars, the messengers to the seven churches, but then he saw one like unto the Son of Man in the midst of them. Now, what he saw was a representation of the churches, but when he seen the Lord, he was not seeing a representation. He was seeing the real thing. It was the real person. And by the way, this text is the first revelation or vision of Jesus Christ after he ascended to the Father. John tells us what he's like now that he's up in heaven. Peter tells us about it, and John tells us about it in the Gospels when they saw him walking on the earth and he had a body like you've got. His resurrected body was a real body, although it was a glorified body, it was a very real body, and that's what John and Peter and Jane, all of those That's what they saw. They actually saw a real body. Now when when John sees him here in Revelation, John sees him as the ascended And glorified God. He sees the Lord Jesus in a heavenly way, the way you're going to see him when he says, Come up hither. The way I'm going to see him. Now, folks, I hope this morning that your Jesus is real. Far too many, I believe, don't have a real Jesus. They might have a Jesus, but he's not a real Jesus. He's a Jesus of their imagination. He's a Jesus of their training or teaching, but he's not real. But I want you to know there is a real Jesus. And I just read to you a description of what he's like. If you were to be transported into heaven immediately right now, this is exactly what you would see as John saw him and described him. I want you to notice that John saw him in the midst of the churches. That's where he was. Can I say this? That's where he is. He is among his people. John saw him both majestic and mighty, and my friend, not one thing has changed about the Lord Jesus. He's still majestic. And he's still mighty. The Bible says he's the same yesterday, today, and forever. I want you to look quickly at the description we read in the beginning. Verse number 13, we're told that he was clothed with a garment down to the foot. And I want you to note this description. John was that garment speaks of his official dignity. His official dignity. You see, we have an high priest who is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. That's who he is. That garment represents that. He also saw, notice it says, a golden girdle, girdle about the paths of a golden girdle. And that golden girdle represents the pure love. Of God for his people. John 3. 16 says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. There's a pure love. God has a pure love. And you see that demonstrated in the golden girdle. Look at verse number fourteen. His head and his hairs were white like wool. Notice this, as white as the snow. This is a description of the perfect holiness of God. He's without spot nor blemish. There is no trace of sin. By the way, there is no ability to sin in the person of the Lord Jesus when he walked the earth and as he lives in glory. He's perfectly holy. Everything about him is holy. Then you'll notice his eyes. Look in verse 14. His eyes were as a flame of fire. Those eyes represent consuming knowledge. The Lord Jesus has consuming all as you see. He sees all and knows all. The dark is no different than the light to him. He sees all. Time has no effect on his knowledge. He knows all things perfect past, all things perfect present, all things perfect future, and he sees them all as if it was all done in one swath. That's the perfect consuming knowledge of God. Notice verse 15, his feet like undefined brass, as if they burned in a furnace. Those feet speak of the righteous judgment. Notice the righteous judgment of the Lord Jesus. Do you remember in Daniel's vision Of the man with the the brass feet, which it represented the nations that would come and judge and be used of God to bring judgment. And I want to remind you, we often want to speak of the meek and lowly Jesus. And we love to look at the sacrificial lamb, but he is a righteous judge. And there will come a day, my friend, when he will rule and reign on this earth. And he will do so in perfect, absolute righteousness. No judgment will be questioned by him. No decision will be second guessed because it's perfect. All of his judgments are righteous. Then notice his voice. Verse number 15 says, and his voice as the sound of many waters. That voice represents the absolute authority of the voice of God. God 's voice, God's words, his speech is without question. It's absolute authority. I know we live in an age where absolute authority is disdained, but we still carry a Bible that is an absolute authority. It is the absolute authority of God. God speaks. And you know, someone used to say, Well, God speaks and I believe it and that settles it. Well, let me take a part of that out. Because whether you believe it or not, it's settled already. The Bible says, forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. And I can believe it or not believe it, and that don't change it at all. I could stand here and say I don't believe grass is green. Well that doesn't change the color of the yard out there. My my belief in what the Bible says does not add to or take away from it. Now it either adds to or takes away from me. It can diminish me. It can hurt me if I don't believe what the Bible says. But it don't hurt the Bible. The Bible stands. I believe it was Mr. Spurgeon who talked about the Bible being like an anvil. And men 's critic, uh, their their critiquing of the Bible like a hammer. And he said they've wore out many a hammer on the anvil. But the old anvil still stands. And the anvil will stand because it's the Word of God. Then notice in his right hand, it says, in verse number 16, he had in his right hand seven stars. That speaks of his sovereign administration. The church is his. Well, the earth is his. But in emphasis on what's being taught here, he's saying the seven stars were in his right hand. In other words, he's in charge of the church. Jesus said this when he was on this earth, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. It's his church. It's not my church. It's not your church. It's his. And he's the sovereign administrator. I often worried in early ministry very foolishly. You know, the Bible addresses all the worries that we have if we'll just let it. I felt it my job as a pastor to maintain and sustain , somehow or another, keep the church going. I read of a man one time who, as the pastor of a church, would run out in the yard every time the train went by. And he would stand there with a gaping mouth and a look of amazement and the people thought he was maybe losing his mind. Why does he do that every time the train goes by? Every you know, if you live near the tracks, you know they go by sometimes quite frequently. And he would run out and he would look and he would watch and then he would turn and go back. Every time the train passed, someone got up the nerve to say, Why do you do that? I said, Pastor, why do you do that? It's kind of strange. People are talking. You're standing there watching that train like it's the first time you've ever seen a train and and he said, You know something? It's the only thing in this town I don't have to push to get through. Well, sometimes you feel like they that way, but you know what the reality is? It's his church He's the sovereign administrator. They're in his hands. It's his church. Then you'll notice his mouth. Look, the Bible says in verse 16, out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword. That speaks of searching truth. Truth, like Hebrews records, is dividing to the spirit and soul, the joint and the marrow. Boy, that's cutting her close. That's getting down, and and it says a discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. If you want to know what your intentions are, let the Bible tell you. The Bible will expose your intentions, it'll expose your thoughts. It'll expose your heart. I don't believe that this Bible is not understandable. I think for many it's just unacceptable. There's a difference. It is not that we don't get it, it's like it's just that we just don't like it. What we get, we just don't like And that's the Bible. I don't know about you, but I don't like to be wakened, awakened abruptly. Does anybody like that? Just a rough, a rude awakening? I don't know when my father ever slept. Seemed like when I went to bed he was awake, and when I got up he was awake. And he didn't like anybody sleeping if he was awake. And he didn't comprehend the fact that Saturday mornings when you're in school is the only time you sleep. Now you didn't sleep on Sunday, you went to church. That was we knew that. But I mean I thought surely Saturday morning. And I still remember him at six o'clock on Saturday mornings, turning on lights, jerking back the covers. Time to get up Time to get up. You dare not stay, because he'll help you get up. You know what the Bible does? The Bible doesn't cater to my feelings. Or care about my discomfort. It takes the covers off. And it says, Awake, awake , awake to righteousness. And it's a sharp, he said, out of his mouth came a sharp two-edged sword, and then notice his countenance, and his countenance was as the sun shineth in his strength. He speaks here of the transcendent glory of the Lord Jesus. You say, how can a man you can't look at the sun in its strength. When the sun shines at its fullest, you just can't look at it. It'll blind you. And what John is saying here is that the glory of the Lord Jesus transcends what he could comprehend. He couldn't take it all in. And watch what he did, he fell down at his feet as dead. Now let me say this, I'll pray and then bring the message. What John saw, I need to see. I need to remember that just what Christ was, he currently is. And may the Lord help us to, because I believe this is our hope, and this is our help. I believe it's right here. Father, please help me now. I stand, Lord, where I can't stand alone. And Lord, I pray in Jesus' name you'd fill with your spirit, hide flesh, exalt Christ, work deeply in every heart, and cause us to see what only you can help a man see. And we'll thank you for what you do because we're looking to, waiting on, and trusting in you. And we pray in Jesus' name and God's people said. Just as a side note, as John wrote to the churches, chapter 2 and 3, he incorporated what he saw into what he said to them. I don't know if you've ever looked at that and s and studied it, but when he spoke to those church Ephesians, Ephesus, the church at Ephesus, he said, right, ver chapter 2, verse 1, these things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand. He takes a glimpse of that, he takes a little picture of that, he takes a little portion of that, and he passes it on to that church. Now why did he do that? I'll tell you why he did that. Because he he reminded these churches that Jesus is sufficient. He's all I need. I think we need to go back today in this age of complex religion. And confuse morality to a sufficient Savior in the Lord Jesus Christ. Anytime you put Jesus and together, you're headed down the wrong road. It's not Jesus and this or Jesus and that. It's Jesus alone. I thank God for all of the additional things that the Lord brings our way, but it's real the the real truth of the matter is Jesus Christ is enough. And I want you to see that this morning. If you're making notes, would you please note this? That the person of Christ is sufficient for all our needs. All our needs. Jesus is sufficient for them. Now I'm talking about the real Jesus. That fake the fake modern Jesus is not enough. He never will be because he's not true But the real Bible Jesus is enough for all of our needs. You say what do you mean? He's enough for our need for salvation Verse 5 says, unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood. Friend, if Jesus isn't enough to save you, there's nothing else that can. If he's not enough, anytime we start adding to him, we start messing up salvation. It's not Jesus and prayer or Jesus and works. It's not Jesus and baptism. It's not Jesus and candles. It's not Jesus and church. It's Jesus. He loved me. He washed me. His blood saves me. Jesus is sufficient for my need of salvation. And my friend, he'll save you if you'll but turn to him. He'll save you. Oh, you say you can't save me. I'm too far. I'm too bad. I would challenge you to open up a Bible and begin to read some of the people that Jesus saved. Murderers, adulterers, filthy individu I mean people that did the unmentionable. He he said look, he saved them, he washed them, he cleansed them. The Apostle Paul lists this long group of people in Corinth. And says, that's what you used to be, but now you're washed and you're sanctified and you're justified because Jesus is sufficient to save and Jesus alone It was a happy day when I realized I didn't have to help him out. That's the problem with a lot of us. We're trying to help him out. You'll never have peace as long as you're helping. Because you can't help him. He doesn't need your help. Like a certain brother has is often to say, you know how you can help? Just stay out of my way. Amen. Just stay out of my way. And and I almost feel like the Lord wants to say that to some that feel like they need the help they need to help the Lord. I need to help him. I I need to feel sorry enough. I need to cry enough. I need to I I I need to do something or another to contribute. Friend, listen, you you've already done all that can be done to contribute To salvation, you've sinned, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. The reality is that He alone is sufficient to save you. He alone is sufficient to sanctify you. That just simply means to clean your life up, to make you what you ought to be. The Bible says in verse 6 of Revelation 1, and hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father. He's made me a king. He's made me a priest. What we are this morning, we have to say with the Apostle Paul, I am what I am by what? By the grace of God. Grace is that unmerited faith. If there's any good in you this morning, you didn't put it there. And may I say this very kindly? You're not responsible for it either. He did. He's made you King and priest. He made you a new creature. He made you a new individu. He gave you new desires. He's given you new life. He's the one who g who gives that all that newness. Any man being Christ, he's a new creature. That's the work of God. And what a work it is, and what a wonder it is. Doesn't it make you just bow in awe and say, Lord, how how could you do such a thing for a sinner like me? He's sufficient though. He's sufficient for all of our needs in salvation. He's sufficient for all of our needs in sanctification. Can I say this? He's sufficient for all of our need Of satisfaction You notice what John said, To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. That's Revelation 1:6. You know why? He was satisfied. He was satisfied. Friend, when when you learn that he's enough. He really is enough. The extras, the attachments, the adornments, all of that's unnecessary. He is enough. That's a thrilling it's a thrilling thought. But I often feel sometimes that it's very rarely experienced. I know we've heard the little cliche, you know, I didn't know he was all I needed until he was all I had. But the reality is, friend, he's he's all I need no matter what I have. Because what I have is not bundled up really. In what I need, the Bible says that the abundance of man's life does not consist in the abundance of things which he possesses Those are those are just adornments, you know. Someone said they're kind of like the curl on a pig's tail. They don't add no taste or make much difference, but they're there for beauty, I guess. And that's about all they're there for. But I'm glad Jesus satisfies. John was satisfied. In the Lord Jesus. And by the way, if he don't satisfy you, nothing ever will. Nothing. Look at that dear woman at the whale. She was looking for something. That was clear She had gone from relationship to relationship. She obviously was not satisfied. And yet the reality is that when she met Jesus, she forgot about everything else in her life and said, Come see a man who told me all ever I did. Which really he didn't do that. He only spoke about one part of her life. But she was so overwhelmed with the reality that I'm satisfied, I'm satisfied. Come see him. You've got to see who it is who finally has satisfied my longings. Now Jesus can. Jesus can. Don't believe the devil's lie. Some of you do. Some of you dear folks have. And you're in the devil's trap and you're chasing this, that, and the other, and all of those things, you say, well, if I can just get there, if I can just get that, if I can get my hands on this And all of those things and you say, Then I'll be satisfied only to find. It's like chasing a butterfly. You just can't catch a thing. It keeps going from place to place. But I'm glad that when we find the Lord Jesus, or rather, the Lord Jesus finds us, we find the real source of satisfaction. I like reading old writers because there's a sense of satisfaction in their writing that you don't see in things written of today. There's a satisfaction in the Lord Jesus. They're satisfied. He's obviously enough. And we're talking about a people that lived rough and had hard times and suffered greatly. And yet they spoke of the beauty and the glory and majesty of the Lord Jesus. You say, I'm not interested in that. All the more, you need him. All the more you need him. If there's no interest in the heart, there's likely no salvation of the soul. May the Lord help us to see we need Christ. The person of Christ is sufficient for all of our needs. Let me quickly point out the presence of Christ is assured to all his saints. His presence. Well, preacher, how do I know the Lord is near? He said he would be. And there's where I rest. He said, I'll never leave thee nor forsake thee. So I rest there. I don't need a sign. I don't need a uh a talking squirrel. I don't need a glowing maple leaf. I don't need a flutter-flittering butterfly. I don't need a cardinal to pass into the bushes. I simply need to know my Bible says he abides faithful. He's with me. If you're saved, he's with you. John looked into those churches, and this way God chose to show him, showed him the candlesticks, and then he showed him the man in the midst. And he said, I want you to notice something, John. He's right there with those churches. I want you to see. And by the way, this must have really been hard for John to wrap his head around, because not only was he there in the midst of the churches He was there on the Isle of Patmos. John said, I heard a voice. I turned and heard a voice. He said, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. And he said, When I turned to look, there he was. So he was there and and isn't that something that the Lord can be here and he can be over there and wherever God's little people are, he's there in their midst. Thank God for that. What a mighty Lord. Would you note just something here real quick? Verse thirteen says he's in the midst. That means he's right in the middle of They used to say in the mountains, right smack dab in the middle. I don't know what all that means, but I uh it it always it was very emphatic, whatever it was. But he's right in the midst. He's not distant. He's not disinterested. And listen, I don't I think we need to recover an understanding that he's in our presence. We're in his Here the saints are assembled, they're pictured assembled, the churches are all meeting together. And each of these seven churches, he's right in the midst of them. There's something special about God's people gathering. He said, I'm in the midst. I know he's with us individually, but there's something special about the gathering because when we gather, he's with us collectively. He's he's he's in our midst. And don't ever discount that because that's the greatest presence of all. Just quickly, let me get through this. I want you to notice that he's with the strong. I believe John was one of the, he 's a representation of the strong. He's a strong believer. He's on the Isle of Patmos, not because he was playing Christian. He was on the Isle of Patmos because he was being a Christian. And they hated him for it. And they said, we're going to shut you up and send you out here and leave you and hope you die. Well, he didn't die. Because God's in charge of that stuff. But he was there. The Lord was with the strong. Now that probably doesn't appeal to most of us. But here, I think, next we see that he's with the suffering. In chapter 2, he writes to this church in Smyrna. And verse number 8, he says unto Angel Church in Smyrna, write these things, saith the first and the last, which was dead and is alive. And he goes on to talk about what they're going through. What are they going through? Their suffering, their tribulation, their poverty. He says the devil's going to cast some of you into prison. You'll have tribulation. Be faithful unto death. I'll give thee the crown of life. Here is the people that are suffering. And church, aren't you grateful that the Lord doesn't abandon you when you suffer? By the way, even when it's self-inflicted suffering. Which I fear is probably 90% of our suffering is self-inflicted. Somebody said I would have taken better care of my body if I knew I was going to live this long and have to stay in it. Isn't that true? Self-inflicted. Here's what we learn. We learn that he's with the suffering. He's with the suffering. And my dear Christian friend, no matter where you may find yourself in a hospital bed or a nursing home, a care facility Laid up, unable to to to function as you once did. I'm glad the Lord of heaven is with his people. He's in the midst of the suffering. But note this, please. He's in the midst of the struggling. And is that not the general consensus of the seven churches? They're all struggling? They're struggling with something. False doctrine, false professors They're struggling with the devil. There's all kinds of struggles going on. They're struggling with their flesh, with pride. They're struggling with false teaching. There are all sorts of things that these seven churches read about them. They're not perfect churches. I don't know what's gotten into folks that are on a quest for a perfect church. Somebody said if you found one, don't join it and spoil it. But the truth is there's a there's a quest, there's a search. Oh, we're looking for per there's no perfect church. They're struggling in the midst of God's people. But listen, I'm glad my struggles do not turn away the presence of my dear Savior. He's in the midst of the struggling. He was there. By the way, he challenged all of these churches. Overcome. Overcome. Overcome. Overcome. I know you're struggling, but overcome. I know you're fighting, but overcome. I know you're battling, but overcome. I know it's dark, but overcome. I know there's opposition, but overcome. I know it's a challenge, but overcome. He that overcometh, he made a special promise. You say, what was he doing? He was motivating the saints. I don't want to make it so shallow, but help us understand. It was as if he was cheering them on with great truth. He was cheering them on. I mean, listen, when you got somebody cheering in your corner, it makes all the difference in the world. We went to high school. We were, my wife and I, we've been to, well, she didn't go to kindergarten. She's too smart for kindergarten. I had to go three times. But we've been to school together our whole life. We were Bobcats and Candler at our elementary school, and we were jets in high school, the Inca Jets. We had a renowned, pitiful football team. I don't ever remember winning a game. And we were such a bad football team that most of the Inca Jets sat on the opposing side Every time we had a football game because we knew the outcome. They were going to win. So if you wanted to cheer for a winner, you didn't sit over on the jet section. It was bad, I'm telling you. But on Friday before our big football games, in the afternoon they would have what they called a pep rally. If any of you went to public school, you attended those. And we had a pet rally. And they would get out there and they would start cheering. They'd make us all go in the um the gymnasium there, I'm trying to remember in the new school. And we would sit in the bleachers and everybody would cheer, you know, and then the football team would come in. Now every one of us there knew it was gonna hap they were gonna lose. But we cheered anyway. And they came in like man, they were the winners of the Super Bowl. And walk around like they I'm listening, we're gonna do it tonight. This happened all four years of high school Here's my point. Even a bad team at least tries a little harder when they've got somebody cheering for 'em. I want you to hear something, the word of God, hear the Lord Jesus, whatever circumstance you're in, he's saying, overcome Overcome. And his are no no shallow accolades. His is the authoritative cheer from heaven that says, If you'll follow me, you'll be an overcomer. Because my Bible still says we're more than conquerors through him that loved us and gave himself for us. We're overcomers in him. And so he says to the struggling, I'm with you. I'm with you. Here's John laid out flat, dead at his feet, or uh fell as he was dead. And the Lord says, Fear not. Puts his hand on John, fear not, I'm right here. You're okay. I think sometimes we need to hear the Lord say, children, fear not. I'm right here with you. I'm right here with you. And let me close with this. I see the prescription of Christ is the answer to all our problems. And I'm using that in the sense of a prescription that you would be given for a sickness. The prescription of Christ is the answer to all of our problems. He's the answer to sin. By the way, that is your greatest problem, my greatest problem. My Bible's very clear that we all have one thing in common, and that's we're sinners. We're sinners by nature. We're sinners by birth. We're sinners by choice. But aren't you glad there's a remedy? We find here the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ emphasized in this first chapter because that is the answer for sin. Listen, joining this church will not answer the sin problem in your heart. Getting in the waters of baptism will not answer the sin problem in your heart. Praying a prayer and resolving to do better is not going to answer The only thing that's going to answer the sin problem in your heart is the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. My friend, listen, he is the remedy. He's the remedy. He's not only the prescription for sin, but he's the prescription for self. And by the way, apart from sin, self is your greatest enemy. In Revelation chapter 3, we read about the church of Laodicea, and here's what they said: They said, We are rich. We are increased with goods. We have need of nothing. Next verse, verse number eight The Lord says, but I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire. Anoint thine eyes with Isa, that thou mayest see. You know what he was saying to that church? You need to get over yourself and get to Christ. You need to get to Jesus. You need to abandon all of those things that you cling to that seem so critical and so important and so uh so necessary and get to the Lord Jesus. He's the one that you stand in need of. And can I say to you that the only victory over self you'll ever get is the victory that comes from the Lord Jesus himself. He's the answer for self. I think we've drunk too deeply at the waters at the waters of this world Because we've got self-help this and self-help that. I don't know about you, but myself ain't much help to myself. I get in the way of myself. I do damage to myself. Joe, you remember this when you were a little boy, you'd help me in the gar help me in the garage And a lot of times he made more work. Sometimes he did damage I told him to hold a screwdriver and I thought, well, I'll give him something constructive to do. I was down underneath an old van and Had a pit in my garage and I was on there working and I said, hold this, hold this screwdriver and keep it warm, because it was cold. It was about minus 30. And we had a fire going. Well, being the very thoughtful son that he is, he thought if he put that screwdriver in the stove and got it really nice and warm that I would appreciate that. So he heated the end of that screwdriver and he didn't hand it to me from the handle end that he was holding. He handed it to me from the hot end that he had warmed up. Man, I I still have marks in my palm where he melded my flesh and all he is doing was helping me. I appreciated his heart, but I suffered sometimes from his help. Here's what I'm trying to say. You know what I do to me? I do a lot of damage sometimes Thinking I'm helping. I don't need self-help. I need the Savior's help. And you need the Savior's dear help. He said, Come to me, look to me. And then I see he's the prescription for our problem with Satan. And my friend, the devil's very real and very powerful. That church at uh Smyrna, we're facing many things at the hands of the enemy. But it's interesting to me that he says this, fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer. I'm reading Revelation 2. 10. Behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried, ye shall have tribulation in ten days, but be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life. You know why he was going to give a crown of life? Because he's the Lord of life. Remember who he is? He's he that was dead, but behold, I'm alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death and of hell. All of these are demonstrations of his great victory over the devil. Somebody said the devil is the only one that doesn't have keys to his own workshop. And he doesn't. They're in the hands of the Lord. We see here that he's the prescription to the problem of Satan. I believe it's very clear that Jesus is all I need. You and I need to disregard the lies of this world that we need something more than Jesus. Preacher, I I just I need a little something more than Jesus. I I need just a little something more. I need an experience. I I need some sort of emotion. I need some No friend, you just need the Lord. He really is. He really is enough. The God of this Bible is enough. The Lord Jesus, who's revealed in Revelation chapter 1. And John says to all seven of these churches, which represent all the conditions of any church in any time, He's saying, I want you to know something. Jesus is enough for all of you. No matter where you're at or what you face or what you go through, he's enough. You may be here discouraged Jesus is the answer. You may be here lost. Jesus is the Savior. You may be here weak. Jesus is our strength. You may be here, my friend, feeling all defeated. Jesus is the victory You may be here today all beat up and battered, but Jesus is the hope and the healer and the comforter of his people. He really is enough. This isn't religious jargon. It's the reality of all who know this same Jesus. One day you'll leave here if you're saved and you'll go to be with him. And this same Jesus that John described, you'll behold. You'll see you. I wonder if there we won't look back here and say, I wished I'd have trusted you more. I wonder if we'll not say, Why did I doubt you? Why did I struggle when I had such a Savior? May the Lord help us to see what John saw. He really is enough. Marinatha Baptist Church will always be enough. No matter what you face or walk through in life, he is enough. Lean hard on him. You'll find him faithful. Let's all stand together, please.