For that reminder, amen. You know, people have funny notions about church. They think folks that go to church think they're something. People who go to the right kind of church know they're nothing. And that He's everything. It's all about the grace of God. And that's why we're here this morning. It's nothing but grace. That's all it is. I want to honor our fathers this morning. Would all of our fathers stand. All of you fathers, would you please stand for just a moment and remain standing for me As a good group of men, I thank God for you. And I want to encourage your heart from the Word of God this morning, but I'm going to pray for you before I do. And may the Lord help us today in a very special way. You're needed in this culture more than you realize. Our society sadly takes a dim view and also distorts what a real father should be But I'm glad I've got the Bible to straighten all that out. I thank God for each one of you men. Let's pray together. Father, would you help us this morning? We sure stand in need of thy touch. Lord, I pray you'd touch each one of these dear men. I thank you for them. I ask you, Lord, to just encourage them greatly, strengthen them mightily. Dear Lord, continue to use them and help them to live for you. And Lord, I pray that we would be more like our Heavenly Father. And Lord help us to see him for all that he is this day. Lord, we love you. We appreciate your love for us. And God, thank you again for your mercy. Thank you, as our brothers remind us, for the grace of God. Lord, it's nothing No simpler way to put it. It's nothing but grace. And Lord, all of the uh the if there's anything good in us, it's the grace of God that put it there. And we praise you for thy grace. Now, Lord, help us as we open the book, open our hearts, and do thy great work, and we'll give you the glory, for we pray and ask it in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. Men you can be seated. Thank you so much. Would you take your Bibles again and turn with me to Psalm 103? Psalm 103 Our text, I've already read it this morning, but I'd like to read it again because I believe it's a very important part of the Bible. In verse number 13, the Bible says, like as. Now let me remind you of something. Every time God says that, he's getting ready to draw you a picture. I used to work for a fellow. He'd tell you what he wanted you to do and then he'd draw you a picture of how to do it. It's pretty interesting. I mean he'd say, now this is what I want you to go do. And then he'd take out his little notepad and he'd take his pencil and he'd say, Now this is how this is what it's going to look like. He wanted to make sure I I didn't know if he was just thorough or he thought I was slow. Maybe it was both But uh he made sure you got what he was trying to say. Every time the Bible says, like as, God's wanting you to get the picture. He wants to make sure you get it. He's drawing the picture. He's saying, now put this together. I want you to take something you know, because by the way, when you talk start talking about the Lord, We're talking about someone who's incomprehensible. Nobody's got God figured out. And about the time you do, you've made an idol. He's incomprehensible. He says, as uh high as the heavens are above the earth, so are my ways above your ways. I mean he's beyond us. He's beyond us. And what who are we and what are we, little finite human beings, to think that we can grasp the ungraspable, the incomprehensible God About the time you think you do, he'll do something, and you'll say, Well, Lord, I didn't see that. I didn't realize you did that. But the reality is he's incomprehensible and he's incomparable. I mean really there's nothing you can compare him to. Now, certainly there's the attempt made, we and and he does that here, but He he says, like as a father, and so he takes that father, and and of course if we're here today, we've all had a father somewhere. And uh he takes that father and he says, now like as a father pitieth his children. It's very important that we understand what he's saying here. He says, like as a father is tender, compassionate, caring, gracious, merciful to his children. Now let's stop there. You say, preacher, that isn't my father. And it may not be, but it is the Heavenly Father. It is the Father that we're going to learn about this morning, that we're going to magnify this morning. Like as a father pitieth his children, so doth the Lord pitieth them that fear him. This psalm is the psalm of the perfect father. Because all throughout this psalm, the perfect father is glorified. He's demonstrated, he's defined, he's laid out before us. And God draws a portrait so that we can say, oh, that's who the Father is. There's a friend of mine who preaches on the street across Canada, and this brother does drawings as he's preaching. And when he starts out, it doesn't look like anything. And if as he goes on ten or fifteen minutes, the pictures still don't look like anything. He'll have a you know a streak of yellow here and a streak of purple there and and it looks like you know this this is this is it's never going to come together. What are you doing? But by the time he's finished, he draws a beautiful portrait, and it goes right along with what he's trying to say. Remember when Brother Webb was with us here last year, he did the same thing And when he started out, I mean it just looked like a bunch of lines or colors or but it wasn't until he got the picture all put together that you could understand what he's communicating. I'm saying that Psalm 103 is drawing a whole lot of pictures to communicate one message, and that is the Father in heaven is a perfect Father. He's perfect. You can't compare him to anything because there's nothing perfect down here. You can't comprehend him because he's greater than all things we know, but yet he still is the perfect Father. Let's pray together. Father, we come in Jesus' name and thank you for this privilege that we have to be in this place Oh Lord, how we need your help afresh and anew. May Christ and Christ alone be lifted up. We'll give you the glory. For we ask these things, Lord, behind this sacred desk, in mercy. Empty me of me. Fill me with you. I pray that you'd help me now this morning as never before to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus To set him before these dear people for what we need here today, Lord's not in me, and it's not in this church, but it is in you, O Lord. We thank you, Lord, for your grace and for your mercy that we've already been reminded of and enjoyed. Dear Lord, I pray that you'd speak as only you can to every heart, and we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Now this morning I want you to consider how that if you're saved and you say, Preacher, what does that mean? That means that you've come to a place in your life that you recognized you were lost. Dr. Etchens used the illustration of drowning. You know, if a man doesn't know he's drowning, he's not going to cry out for help. But the moment that he begins to drown and realizes I'm drowning, he's going to say, Help! And if you've been saved, you somewhere realized you were lost. That was the work of God's Holy Spirit. He began to deal with your heart and show you, hey, you need to be saved. Your religion's not going to get you in. Your your uh all the things that you're hoping will uh counterbalance the bad is not gonna get you in. You began to see, hey, I am lost. Now I remember as a young man Coming to that realization, you know what? I am lost. I'm not going to heaven on the coattail of my mother and dad. I'm not going to heaven simply because I belong to a gospel preaching church. I'm not going to heaven because my preacher preaches the word. I am lost. And I'll tell you, when you realize you're lost, you're in a good place to get some help. Because it's then you begin to say, Now Lord, please help me, Lord save me, when you realize you can't do anything for yourself. Years ago we'd go on Sunday afternoon to a place called Davidson River and we would swim there between church services and I don't know I was fifteen, sixteen, somewhere years old. And we'd jump off this rock into a hole in that river, and that river ran underneath, and it it had a little tunnel through that rock, and you'd go like from here to the back of the building and it would spit you out. And I remember how fun that was, you know, the thrill of getting just struck through there. It's like you're in a a vacuum But sometimes there'd be a cloud burst up on the mountain and and the water would begin to rise and it would come suddenly. I mean it would be very quick. And I jumped in the river one Sunday. And I jumped in just as that cloud burst had let go. And that river, I remember when I hit the water, I thought, this feels different. Because it felt like there was a power or force pushing that I'd never felt before. And that water had raised about five feet just almost instantly. And there was a force coming through there. When it shot me out the other side, I was so uh confused about where I was. Man, I I didn't know swim left, right, go up, down And I thought for sure I'm going to drown. Thankfully, I had some friends that were watching and realized what happened and they seen, you know, my struggling and and and one of those boys jumped in and he grabbed me and pulled me out I'm glad he did. Do you know he didn't have to stand there and get in that water and say, now come along with me because you're going to drown? No, I was just glad somebody who knew which way to go grabbed hold of me and got me out of that water. And I'm saying to you that Jesus Christ is the one who will grab you in the sinking of sin, pull you out, and take you the way you need to go. But until you get to the place that you realize you're lost and you need him, that then you're not going to be saved. But when you do, you get born again. You trust Christ. You call upon him. The Bible says Jesus died for our sin. He was buried, and he rose again the third day, all according to the Scripture. So our hope this morning is Christian, you say, what makes me a Christian? Sitting in this church? No. You can set in this church, you can set in this church until you grow roots through the pew, and it won't make you a Christian. You can you can you can uh say, well I'm gonna go do what Christians do, and you can do what Christians do. The fact of the matter is, most of what we see in Christianity today, you could train a monkey to do it It doesn't take the note of supernatural power. And what doing what Christians do don't make you a Christian? Believing on the Lord Jesus Christ. Now that makes you a Christian. And when you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, you're putting your faith in him, you're doing like Peter did, Lord save me, and out of that sinking pit of sin, God pulls you and saves you by his grace. Now from that moment, please hear me, from that moment on, you've got a father in heaven. You've got a father in heaven. From that moment on, you can lay claim. To him. He's my father. He's my father. And so David would write here very clearly, like as the father pitieth his children, so doth the Lord pity them. Notice this, that fear him. Those that have come to the place of putting their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ are people who fear Him. And they recognize or they reverence Him. They realize: hey, He's my Father. That's the moment the fatherhood of God begins. You know, there's a lot of talk about the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, but the fatherhood of God truly does not begin until a person is born again. And the brotherhood of man is the beginning, it comes as a result of being born into the family. Now, if you have how many of you have brother? You got brother? Okay. I have a brother, older brother. In fact, he's so much older than me, he was more like a dad than a brother. And uh he he's he's my brother. He's not your brother. He's my brother because we're born in the same family. Got the same father, mother, same blood, he's my brother. He's he's a little he's the crazier one. But I love him, and he loves me, I hope. But the truth of the matter is, he is my brother. Now, he he might be your brother in the Lord. You say, Well, I'm saved, he's saved, and so that makes us brother. Yeah, but not like this. We're blood brothers. He's my brother. Because I was born in the same family. Please hear me now. If you've been born into the same family spiritually, we're brothers and sisters. We're part of the same family. We're part of the same family. Happy be the day. Happy be the day when we stop checking people 's uh church membership before we recognize them as brothers. I'm not talking about throwing out everything the Bible teaches But I'm talking about the recognition. If you've been washed in the blood and bought by Christ, we're part of the same family. We've been born into the family of God. And the scripture makes it very clear, brother and sister, that that we now have a heavenly father. Now who is this father? You know, we're the Dow Quartet were singing about precious memories. And ever since my dad went to heaven, I always try on Saturday night and just start thinking about him and some of those precious memories I just enjoy them. They they they're things that you know, I remember things he did when we were little and things uh sacrifices he made and all these things and I I remember some things that that uh I didn't understand then. I thought, man, I got the meanest daddy in the world. But I'm glad I did 'Cause you you'd have seen the meanest boy in the world if you didn't if I didn't have the meanest daddy in the world. I'm glad for a daddy who disciplined me and who who got me out of trouble and who got who put me in trouble when I got in trouble So to so to speak. But I'm thankful for that. And those are those are precious memories. But as we consider who our Father in heaven is, we're not really talking about memories. We're talking about realities We're not looking back to what he was, we're looking up to what he is. For he's not the great I was, he's the great I am. He's our Father, and what he was then, he still is today. And so you and I with great joy can say, This is my father now. This is who my father is. If you're making notes, can I give you just four or five things? Number one, I want you to notice that he's a holy father. Psalm 103, verse 1 says, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me. Hear it now. Bless his holy name. Oh, if we had time this morning, we'd expound what the word holy means. But the word holy means without sin, perfect, complete, pure. There's no sin in him. He's absolutely pure. When Jesus bowed his head to pray to the Father in John 17, he said, Holy Father. That's what he called him, Holy Father. And aren't you grateful that as we think about what a comfort it is to know that our Father in heaven is perfect. He's a holy father. There's absolutely no flaw. Our father can do no wrong. Our heavenly father can do no wrong. Our Heavenly Father does all things well. Remember when you were little and thought your your dad did everything perfect? Do you equally remember the moment you learned he didn't? And how disappointing that was? Because the reality is we all made of the same stuff, we got feet of clay, we're made of the dust of the earth But the truth of the matter is, you're never going to come on a discovery and find out that God is not holy. Our Father in heaven is holy. All he does is holy. All he is is holy. In fact, holy is the essence of God. He's he's holy right to the core. Everything he he says and speaks and thinks and does, he's altogether holy, and the Bible says, bless his holy name. Now, what a challenge that is. There's two reasons I'm preaching about the Father in heaven. Number one, so that we'll know who he is. Number two, so that you and I as fathers will be more like him. In 1 Peter 1, verse 16, the Bible says, Be ye holy as I am holy. God wants you to be holy. He wants me to be holy. Men, the greatest gift you can give your family is to be a holy dad. To be a holy man. Now we've got a lot of weird ideas about what holiness is. Holiness isn't being weird, it's just being clean. Living close. Just living for the Lord. I mean giving your life to Him completely. A life that's different. A life that's different. Not for the sake of being different, but for the sake of pleasing the Lord. We live to please Him. Be holy. We have a holy father. Number two, I want you to notice he's a forgiving father. As you read on in Psalm 103. You find this out, verse three, who forgiveth all thine iniquities. Thank God he is a forgiving father. And I want you to notice the scope of that forgiveness, how vast it is. He said, All. He forgiveth all thine iniquities I'm glad that there is not one sin the blood of Christ cannot forgive and put away. I want to say that plainly this morning. For there be some who think their sins that are irrevocable, if you will, they're irreparable, that the blood can't put them away. But there's not a sin man commits on the face of this earth that the blood of Christ can't wash and make them clean. He forgiveth all by the way, God never exaggerates. If God said all, he meant all. He's intelligent enough to communicate in such a way that he don't need to say, oops, I didn't mean what I said. I remember when Joe Josiah was little, I'd say, Son, how big was that fish? We'd go home and tell mom how many fish we caught. And it was always funny. Those fish would grow all week long. He'd say, Mom, we caught a fish that big. Then one time he caught a fish that big. Now honest to goodness, none of them were over ten, twelve inches long. But he had caught some big ones. And one time he told the Sunday school teacher, I caught a whale. It was so big I could he said I can't stretch my arms big enough to catch. I said, you little turkey. Exaggerating. Exaggerating. God never does. If God says forgives all iniquity, he'll forgive all iniquity. You come to him, you trust him. Thank God for that. And fathers, do you know you're never more like the Lord than when you are a forgiving father? I don't know that this is not the key to many a crippled home because a father fails to forgive. Luke chapter 15, we're drawn the portrait of a father who had a son who did him wrong. Boy, did he ever do wrong. That son took all of his inheritance and he went out in the far country, and the Bible says he wasted his substance on righteous living. And while it was out there living it up, finally the money run out and the fun run out. And how many of you know both will run out quick? And now he's desperate and he's come to himself and he's in the pig pen and he says, you know Those servants back at my father's house fare better than me. So I think I'll just go home. And when he started home Remember the speech he rehearsed? He wrote it out. I believe he probably had it written out in his mind, Brother Lee. And he's he says, now I will say this to my father. Father, I've sinned. Will you forgive me? I'm not asking to be a son. I just want to be a servant. And he was rehearsing it. Probably every step he took. He's just repeating it over and over in his mind. But then when he starts that way, he gets near the home and he sees something on the horizon and it looks like a man. And that man's running his direction. Have you ever thought about how he must have felt when the father was running his way? Do you think he might have felt afraid? Is he coming to chase me off? Is he coming to run me away? But no, the Bible says that the Father, as he ran to the Son, fell on his neck and kissed him. You see, that boy never got to tell his speech. He never got to say it. His father smothered him with kisses and welcomed him home and said, Son, I'm glad you're back. And he forgave him, he forgave him and cleansed him. Listen, and he brought him home and washed him up, put a robe and shoes and ring and had a feast for him. Thank God for a father who forgives like that. And men, may God help us to be an Ephesians 4. 32 kind of father. And be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Oh God, help us to be forgiving fathers. Our heavenly father is a forgiving father. If you're not right with God, you may be saved, a Christian, but you've not lived for the Lord a long time. You've been far away. I've got good news for you. He's still on the horizon looking for them prodigal sons and daughters. He's still looking for that one to fall on their neck and kiss them and welcome them home. He's still looking for that one to show mercy to. He's a forgiving father. Aren't you glad you can get on your knees and say, Father, I've sinned, forgive me? And God, the Bible says He's faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. He's the forgiving Father. Quickly, number three, He's the redeeming Father. Look in verse four. Who redeemeth thy life from destruction? Who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies? One of the definitions of the word redeem is to recover. I know it means to buy back and so, but it means to recover from, to pull out a disaster. To pull out a destruction. To pull out a devastation. That's what the Father does. He redeems our life Have you ever stopped and thought what his influence in your life has saved you from disaster? Where would you be this morning had the Lord not intervened? Where would you be had the Lord not just stepped into your mess, brought you out? Where would you be today? And I believe part of heaven is going to be realizing all the things He pulled us out of we didn't know we got pulled out of. We're going to realize, Lord, you saved me there. You saved me from that. You rescued me here. Lord, what a merciful Father. How redeeming a Father you are. I'm thankful for a father who got in my business when I had the ignorant audacity to say, stay out of my business. And I remember saying that on one occasion, just once. I didn't repeat. I'm not stupid. I'm a little slow. But I I'm so glad that he he said these words. He said, Boy, you are my business. I said, okay. And I'm glad I was. He redeemed me from destruction. He got involved in my mess and said, hey, that ain't right. I was a 16-year-old boy just rebel in my heart overseeing hypocrisy in the church. And I didn't want anything to do with it. My dad said, I want you to go down here to the camper and I gotta talk to you a minute. And I thought, well, I don't know if he's gonna shoot me, beat me, throw me out. I didn't know what was coming And he sat down, and I wished he had a whoop me because what he did hurt a whole lot worse. He sat there crying. I'd never seen my dad do this. And he told me some things about that that he had prayed for. And he said, I'm going to tell you what I'm going to do. He said, I'm taking my hands off. He said, I can't do nothing. But he said, I want you to know something. There's a God I talk to every day who can. And you no longer got to deal with me. You got to deal with him. And I'll tell you something, Andy, that scared me to death. Because that put a that put this thing on a whole new level. You know what he was doing? He was redeeming my life from destruction. He was getting involved where I needed him to be re involved. Hey Dad, you you need to be involved in some ways, and there's some times you need to step in and Redeem their life from destruction and say, hey, this is the wrong way. You need to go the right way. You say they won't listen. Aren't you glad you got a God you can get on your knees to and say, now Lord, they won't listen to me anymore, but God I'm gonna talk to you about them. He's a redeeming father. Then I want you to notice quickly, number four, he's a faithful father. Verse 6 says, The Lord executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed. He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of Israel. And if you can write one thing over the story of Israel, you can write this, the faithfulness of God. God was faithful. They failed him, like we all do. If you study the history of Israel, it's like watching a story on repeat. You know, like watching a YouTube uh video with repeat. You just they do the same thing over and over. You read the book of Judges and and God raises up a deliverer and gets them out of trouble and it don't take them long, they're right back in trouble again So he raises up another deliverer, and what do they do, they get back in trouble, then he raises up another and it's just over and over and over and over again You know what he's doing? God's being faithful. He made known, I like this, he made known his ways unto Moses And then young Timothy, Paul told him in in 2 Timothy chapter 2, if we believe not, yet he abideth faithful. He cannot deny himself. Do you know what the Bible is saying? Is that God is just faithful. No matter how fickle and foolish and failing we are, God is faithful. He does not change. He's not altered. Man's behavior does not alter the character of God. God is just God. And if you've ever got on your knees and thanked him for anything, you ought to thank him for being faithful. God is faithful. And men, may I challenge you this morning to be a faithful man? Proverbs 2820 says, A faithful man shall abound with blessing. A faithful man. You know, we kind of live in a culture that flashy is the thing that's in. You know, it's It's the popular. It's who gets the eye of everybody. It's the it 's what's alluring. That's sort of a thing. Be flashy, no, just men, just be faithful Many of you sitting here know some faithful men. Many of you can look back and say, you know, I'm grateful that my father, maybe a grandfather, they were faithful men. They knew what it was just to do what they were supposed to do and live that way every day. They were faithful men. Men, we have a faithful father. Let's strive to be faithful ourselves. Number five, quickly, I want you to see he's a good father. He starts in verse number eight and says, the Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy. Go on and read that and see all the things that he is. Oh, how good he is. He's just a good father. He's not vengeful. He's not hateful. Listen, he's just a good father. He's merciful, gracious, slow to anger, plenteous in mercy. Thank God we have a good father. I can still hear my granddaddy pray, and he he said it, he prayed in such a way that you knew he believed what he prayed. He would always, when he bowed his head, he'd always pray at our meals, and then he would at times pray over the family, or he'd pray when they'd put him to bed at night. Granddaddy would always say, our kind and gracious Heavenly Father. And he'd stop and almost like he savored every word. He would emphasize our kind, our gracious Our heavenly Father. And I remember as a little boy hearing that and thinking, you know what? The God he's talking to must be an awful good God. Because he talks to him like he's so good to him. And church, it's not just he it's like he is, he is a good father. And thank God for that. And men, can I challenge you and I, oh, that God would help us to be less like our old fallen nature and more like our Father who's in heaven. Be a good father. Then notice he's a tender father. Verses 13 to 16, we've already read this text, like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. He knoweth our frame, he remembereth that we are dust. See, he's a tender father. He deals with us according to knowledge. He knows what we are, and he's tender because of it. He knows that we're just dust. I'm glad he knows what I am and he deals with me accordingly. He knows what we are and and how tender he is. Look, he he knows where we are and and he knows our time is short. He knows that our days are limited. We're like the grass of the field, and he knows that we'll soon be cut off. And he deals with us in such tenderness, thank God, for a tender heavenly Father. And may God help us who are fathers to be tender as well. We live in a cruel world, but our children don't need cruel parents. We live in a hard world. Man, it breaks my heart to see the stuff that's on the news this week about things happening right here in our town. sickening to see how that lack of natural affection has taken over for parents and and their children But please hear me. There's a God in heaven who's tender with us. The Bible says if he were to mark iniquity, who would stand? If God were to deal with you according to what you deserve and what I deserve, we'd all be in trouble. But thank God. He knows my frame. I'm just dust. And thank God he deals with us accordingly. He's a tender father. Let me give you one last thought out of this passage. He's a ruling father. Psalm 103 and verse 19 says, The Lord hath prepared his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom ruleth over all. He's a father who's in charge. He's the Father who's in charge. Now we may live in a world that appears to be chaotic, but rest assured, behind the scenes, God's on the throne. He's ruling all things. Fathers, can I encourage you this morning? Lead your home. Lead your family. Hey, there's nothing more sad than to see a family run by the children. But that's happening all around us. Mamas and daddies walk on eggshells lest little Sally or little Johnny blows their lid and tears everything up. We need to get back to the place where there's fathers who say, This is the way we're going to go. This is but and by the way, men, that's not your wife's job. God's given her a whole different responsibility. That doesn't put her beneath you. That puts her right beside you. But you have a responsibility on your shoulders to lead that home in the way it ought to go. May God help us this morning. Our Heavenly Father's ruling. He's in charge. He's ruling from His throne. And one of these days, you know the beauty of this thing is He's going to show us one day what it this earth would be like if man would just bow to his rule. For a thousand years he's going to rule the earth, and it's going to be a demonstration of how wonderful it is for God to be in charge. Man to follow. Oh, he is in charge. But man's rebellion says, No, I'm going another way. Please hear me this morning. Fathers, lead your homes. Our society is crumbling at the very core because the fathers are not leading their homes Because the fathers are stepping aside and letting somebody else, hey, it's not the school system's job to lead your home. It's not the church's job to lead your home. I tell our families there's a sacred circle I don't step in. You have a home. That's a sovereign circle. I got no business in that circle unless I'm invited. That's your home. My home's the same. But there's a listen, there's a need in this land. And you say, preacher, I uh my kids are grown. Well, they still need you. Your grandkids need you There's there's a great need in this hour of men who will just lead, and I thank God for the men of this church that we have strong male leadership in our church, and I believe that's the way it should be. That's God's order for the local church. And may God ever help it and keep it that way. But God calls you men to lead and to be like your Father who's in heaven. This psalm reveals to us the perfect Father. It ought to do two things. It ought to humble our heart and worship and say, oh God, how good you are. What a great father I have. You remember when you were little and you'd brag on your father? I hope you do. I hope you had that experience. Buddy, we'd get in some mighty rows on the school bus over whose daddy was better. My daddy, man, I'll tell you, I told some whoppers sometimes about my daddy on the school bus because I wanted them to know he was the best daddy. Oh my daddy, I remember saying one fella, actually he was my neighbor, uh Jason, a good friend of mine, I said, I bet my daddy could whoop your daddy. He said, well then tell your daddy to call my daddy. And so I went home and I told daddy, I said, Daddy, I told Jason, I think you could whoop his daddy. He said, what are you doing, you knucklehead? He said, don't talk so silly He said, well he told me to call your daddy. Dad said, okay, I'll call him. He called him up, scared me to death. I thought, man, I've done start a neighborhood war over this thing. They were good friends and they both laughed over how silly their little boys were. But I think in their hearts they were a little bit proud that they had children who said, Man, I love my daddy I love my Heavenly Father. I'll tell you, He's the kind of Father I want to be. I sure fall short, but I'll tell you, he sets the bar high, and I'm looking to him. Oh, thank God for a father like we have in heaven. And dear friend, if you're here today and not saved, then you can't lay claim like this to this father. But you sure can before you leave, if you'll simply cry out to the Lord Jesus and ask him to be your Savior, forgive your sin, and trust him with your whole heart, he'll save you by his wonderful grace. And oh dear fathers, let me challenge you again, please. Let this father, let this father. See, the problem is we've let these fathers on TV be the example, and it's about destroyed us Let the Father who's in heaven be the example. Say, God make me more like him. Lord, I want to be like this. I want to be like you. I want to be that kind of father. May the Lord help us today to search our hearts and say, Lord, help me with this. Help me to be more like you. Maybe in some area God spoke to your heart. We're going to stand and pray and sing our hymn, and I'm going to ask you to be tender to the Spirit of God. If He spoke to you, find you a place to pray. And let's seek the Lord together. Would you stand, please, Father?