Please and look at First Corinthians eleven for a moment. First Corinthians chapter number eleven, and I'd like to read starting in verse number twenty-three As we've been saying, this will be our communion service as we come around the Lord's table. I want to emphasize the great importance or the purpose of the Lord's table tonight. The purpose of the Lord's table. The Bible makes it very clear, and it states here in verse 23 of 1 Corinthians 11 that I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you. That the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat. This is my body which is broken for you. This do in remembrance of me. After the same manner also he took the cup when he had supp, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood This do ye as oft as ye drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he come. Wherefore, whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world. Wherefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, tarry one for another And if any man hunger, let him eat at home, that you come not together unto condemnation, and the rest I, excuse me, will I set in order when I come I want us to pray and ask the Lord to help us again this evening to understand the real purpose, the clear purpose here of the Lord's table. Let's pray together. Father, we come in Jesus' name. And we greatly need your help. We're seeking your mind, Lord, praying that you will guide and direct in this meeting. Lord, we do not want our will. We want thy will. We pray, Lord, that you'll be glorified and magnified in this gathering. Lord, we thank you for Jesus who loved us and gave himself for us. We thank you for the precious blood that was shed on our behalf. We thank you, Lord, that you are the God who's in charge of all things, ordering steps and stops and everything else in between Now Lord, direct us, please. We'll give you the glory. We sure need you. Open the hearts and minds and ears of your peoples. And Lord God, help me in these moments. Hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. For it's in his powerful name we pray, and God's people said Amen. I've just read to you the most comprehensive instructions that we have in the New Testament of how to observe the Lord's table This passage of Scripture gives to you and I a great deal of information about the purpose and the carrying out God's plan of the Lord's table. Let me immediately say that there is no salvation in the observance of the Lord's table. This is not a sacrament, this is a memorial or an observance. There are no means of grace transferred to an individual who takes the bread and the juice. Salvation's by grace through faith In the Lord Jesus Christ. Friend, we're not saved by what we do as far as this is concerned. We're saved by what Christ did on Calvary's Hill. When Jesus shed his blood and laid down his life for us, our salvation was secured once and for all. And thank God for this great salvation. But the Bible tells us where to do this. In this passage, we find, first off, we find the inception referred to in verse 23, because Paul writes, I received of the Lord. And he said, I'm telling you what the Lord has shown me. And he said, This is what the Lord did. The Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, he took bread. Now, if you'll go back, there's three Gospels that record it, Matthew 26, Mark 14, and Luke 22. And all three Gospel writers in this instance tell us what happened on that night. It was that night when Jesus was betrayed that he took the bread and he broke it and gave it to his disciples. It was that night when he was to be betrayed. that he took the cup and he blessed it and gave it to his disciples and said, This is the blood of my covenant. It was that night that he girded himself with a towel and he washed the feet of his disciples. It was that night that our Lord Would carry out these things as an example and an instant an inception, if you will, of this ordinance that he's given to the local church So he talks about the inception. Then he gives us instructions in verse 24 and 5. He said when he had given thanks, he took that bread, he broke it. And said, Take eat, this is my body, which is broken for you, this do in remembrance of me. Then notice the next verse. And after the same manner also he took the cup When he had supp saying, This cup is the New Testament of my blood, this do ye as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. I want to remind you tonight that the instructions we have in the Bible are unalterable. In other words, this is it up to me to do as I wish. God's told me how to do this. He says, take you you do the bread, you take the bread, you break that bread, that bread represents my body, you take the juice, you break you give that juice. It represents my blood and do it in this order. This is the instructions that our Lord gives. But then there's an insistence here as we study this passage of Scripture, and the insistence starts in verse 28 when he says, let a man examine himself. And so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. The communion table is the place where we come with great preparation. Preparation personal. You know, years ago I passed a man, he wanted to be the inspector agent when it came time to have communion. He said, now now I don't think we ought to serve community that man, because I'm not sure he's ready. Or that woman, I don't think she's ready. And I said, brother, the Bible says, let a man examine himself. The responsibility is on you, dear brother and sister, to examine your heart, to prepare your heart. That responsibility is on you. We don't have police that do that in the church. Let a man examine himself. That's the insistence of the scriptures. Now, all of this is very critical. But what I want to emphasize for a few moments before we come to this ordinance, I want us to look at the threefold purpose that's revealed here in this passage. There's a there's a purpose. Why do we do it? Well it's in the calendar. We do it every quarter. Well it's more important than that. More important than that. Well but preacher, it's what Baptists do. You know Babs do a lot of things they ought not to do, likely. And a lot of things they do, they don't know why they do, but they keep on doing it because they've always done it. But we ought to know why we do what we do. Why are we doing this? Why do we have this particular service and uh why do we come to the communion table? What's its purpose? Well, number one, it has to do with the person. You notice what he said two times, verse 24 and 5? This do in remembrance of me This do in remembrance of me. You see, it's all about a person. The person of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is a reminder of his personhood. Listen, he's invisible, not insignificant. Do you know every time the church assembles, there's someone present? There is a there is a royal guest among us, if you will. There is one who walks among the candlesticks of the church. There is one who's very, very real and very, very present. And listen, beloved, he is present among his people. This do, he said, in remembrance of me. He said also, not only is it a reminder of his person, but it's a reminder of his payment. Did you notice this? He said in verse 24, Take, eat, this is my body which is broken for you. This is for you. There's been a payment made for you. In fact, it's not a down payment. It's not just partial payment. It's a full payment for your sin. Christ died for your sin. He was buried, rose again. According to the scriptures, the payment is made in full. I'm not saved on piecemeal. I'm not saved on layaway. I'm saved eternally by the Lord Jesus Christ. He made the payment in full. It's a reminder of his payment. But then notice also he speaks in that present tense Did you notice that? He doesn't speak as if he's not alive, like we're having some sort of memorial. He's saying, I want to remind you, not only of my person, of my payment, but this is a reminder of my presence. Notice he said that, and if you've got and and again, I 'm not going to split hairs with anybody, but the Bible here in my Bible Those are letters in red, the very words of the Lord Jesus. He's saying, I want you to know when you do this, you're doing it in remembrance of me. I'm there. Not here, not in these elements, but he's here in in the believer, he's here in his presence, his he's everywhere, we know that, thank God. But he said, remember that do this in remembrance of me. I want you to remember I'm present. Now think about this for a minute. This ordinance is an ongoing reminder of the reality of the person of Jesus Christ. Jesus is not an imaginary figure. Jesus is not some figment of the imagination. He's not some creature that don't that that man's come up with in his mind that does not exist. Jesus Christ is very real. And these are are tokens, if you will, or reminders of the reality of his person. Years ago, my dad took me up to a place we were hiking one day and he said, I want to show you something. And we went up on this ridge, we went across the ridge, went through a gap, and there was a gate standing there in the middle of nowhere. And he opened that gap, that that gate, and he looked at that thing, and and and it was a different look. I'd never seen him look like that before. He said, You know something, son? I was raised right down there at the bottom of the mountain. And he said, You don't know how many times I had to come up here and open that was the milk gate. Let the old cow in. So they take her down to milk And he started to tell me about all this. He talked about his dad. He said I'd walk up here with my dad and I walk up here with my mom when she would come. And now both of these people were were already in eternity, had already left this world But he was talking like they were right there. They had just walked up there that day. That little gate brought back all kinds of memories of the reality of his mother and his dad. And he shared that and he said, I I I just I want you to and he started telling me things I'd never heard about his dad, things about his mom I'd never heard. And what I'm saying is that when we come around the communion table, we've got a tangible something to touch, something to take hold of, and remember the reality of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's not the dear departed, beloved. He's alive and well and present in the assembly of God's people. He's very real, church. He's very real. It's all about, remember, that the purpose of the Lord's table is about the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Not only is it about a person, but it's about a passion. Notice verse 26. It says, For as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, Ye do show the Lord's death till he come. It's about a passion. I'm talking about the death of the Lord Jesus. You see, in the in the the ordinance of communion, or the Lord's table as we call it, There is a proclamation of the gospel. In fact, the two ordinances given to the church, the thing of communion and water baptism, both preach the gospel message. They both declare the death, burial, and resurrection of the Lord Jesus for sinners. And so there's a proclamation of the gospel as we consider the death of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now friend, there are people that sadly believe that Jesus didn't die. They believe that somehow or another he just passed out And when they laid him on them cold rocks, he revived and woke up and they said it was a resurrection. I've got news for you. Jesus said this, it is finished. He bowed his head, gave up the ghost, dismissed his spirit. He died, my friend. And furthermore, the gospel message is that Christ died for our sin. He didn't pass out for our sin. He didn't just about lose life for our sin. He died for our sin. And so it's a proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But not only is it a proclamation of the gospel, it's a preservation of truth. And what truth are we preserving in obeying or observing this ordinance? Here's the truth. That it took the sacrifice of another for me to be saved. That's why I believe the devil's tried to pervert this ordinance so badly. Because it preserves the truth. You know when I take that bread and cup, I'm reminded that he took my sin and paid for it yonder. I'm reminded his body was broken where mine should have been. His blood was shed where mine should have been. In other words, I'm reminded that it took the death of the sacrifice so I could be saved. I couldn't be saved any other way. You see there's only two religions in the world, the religion that says do and the religion that says done. We're in the done crowd. I hope you're in the done crowd. Jesus Christ paid it all. We're not here trying to help make payment. He's already paid it. We've entered in by faith into what he's done and rejoice in his goodness and worship him for his sacrifice. It's a preservation of truth. It took the sacrifice of another to be saved. But I like this. That verse also speaks of his coming. Here's a promise. What do we do? We show the Lord's death. Look at that now, please. Till He come. Till He come That tells me he's coming, right? There's a promise latent in that statement. Jesus said, if I go, I will come again to receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. Now, church, he is coming. I know the world says, oh, we've heard about that forever and it hadn't happened yet. And I know a lot of Christians are changing their theology to to fit the times as they see them. But the truth of the matter is Jesus said I'm coming, so you better get ready because he's coming. He made a promise he's going to keep it, and latent in this great truth is the reminder. You can't sit at the Lord's table without thinking about he said till he comes This this is going to end someday. We won't that listen, we won't gather around a communion table in heaven. It'll be the the marriage supper of the Lamb. It'll be a whole different table. But you know what we're doing? We're anticipating. We're saying, even so, come Lord Jesus. We're looking ahead to the promise. We're saying, Lord, I know you're coming. I'm going to be obedient till you do. And when you come I'm going to rejoice that you're here. The promise till he comes. Thank God one of these days this table's going to be replaced. We will not gather to remember the memorial of the sacrifice. We'll be in that wedding festival. That great feast, that great marriage, supper the Lamb. And we'll be thanking God forever and forever what He did for us in redeeming us unto Himself. And the beauty of that is all of His people are going to be there. The Bible tells us every tongue, every nation. Listen, there's going to be uh all of those that God has saved by His wonderful grace. You know what we're doing? We're meeting around this table tonight, and there's some folk missing. There's some folk missing. There's some folk missing that should be here that sin has pulled away. There's some folk that are missing Whom the Lord has taken to heaven. There's there's there's some folk missing, that other circumstances, God's sovereign purposes have been have been operating in their lives and and and they're just not here. Maybe they're on a mission field somewhere, maybe they're laid up in a hospital, they're in some uh care facility or just home trying to get well enough and I'll tell you what they're not here. But I'll there's when we get around that another table. There's not going to be one empty seat. There's not going to be a place missing. There's not going to be a person absent that's supposed to be there. Thank God all of his little children will be present at the table of the marriage supper of the Lamb. Do it, he said, till you come. Till he come. Oh what a day that's going to be. What a day that's going to be when the reality uh of knowing, look, we're absent. We just sister Sister Smith went home to be with the Lord Had her funeral this week. You think about that. Her and Harold have been married sixty-three years. Sixty-three years. And and and you know, here's what he said. He said, I'm gonna miss her. I'm just sure gonna miss her I'm sure gonna miss her. If he said that once, he said it a hundred times. I'm gonna miss her. It's gonna be a day he gonna he's not gonna miss her no more There's going to come a day when we gather around. And listen, it'll be a gathering like no other, thank God. When we gather around that marriage supper table, oh what a day that's going to be You know, I was thinking when we grew up, my dad made the supper table a very important place. That's the only place you get your supper. You know, you didn't take it nowhere else. You didn't take it in the living room or you know, you you if if it was family supper time, family had to be there. And he had to set time, boy, if you wasn't there, fur would fly. Telling you, it wasn't his fur either. But you had to be there. It was time. It was supper time. And boy, everybody'd sit there and just wait. Sometimes more of my sisters will be dragging, you know, and uh doing what girls do, just dragging or doing whatever they do. I don't know what they do But we'd have to wait on one of them sisters. One of my older sisters, my butt my younger sister. We'd have to wait on one of them. Sometimes we'd have to wait on dad. Sometimes we'd be waiting on mom. But but we'd all be waiting. And when everybody got together, then he'd say, Now we're going to pray Can we pray and have a meal? I I d I just wonder. I I just wonder i i i if there's not just some sitting around the table waiting going on right now. I just wonder if if it's not just some waiting, just waiting for the rest of us to get home. Truth is he's coming. He said, as often as you uh do this, you do show the Lord's death till he comes Till he come. What a promise. So it has something to do, the purpose of the communion table has something to do with the person of the Lord Jesus, the passion or the death of the Lord Jesus. Now quickly let me point out the people The people, the people of the Lord. You see, it's a time of preparation. According to verse 28, let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. You know if we took this seriously as we ought to take it, this could be a time of great revival. Personal revival. I believe that. You know something? Uh I I believe one of the secrets, I've prayed and thought about this a whole lot and studied a lot about this concerning revival. We call Scotland the land of revival. And in that country there was a practice concerning the communion table that I believe lends to the fact that made them ripe for revival again and again and again. They had communion season. You know what that meant? That meant that they met for sometimes two weeks to a month, and they prepared themselves to come to the Lord's table. They had preaching. Sometimes it'd be morning and evening preaching. But there was preparation, there was serious preparation. What were they doing? They were examining themselves. They were getting their hearts ready, they were getting right with God. And oftentimes, from what I have discovered, that many of the great revivals that we read about were born in those communion seasons. That when they come together to prepare their hearts, the God of heaven came to meet with them. And I believe one of the reasons God's given this ordinance is that we might perpetually get our hearts right with God. He said, Let a man examine himself. There's preparation. And then notice this: there's purification. Verse 31. If we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. God would have us to continually come to Him for cleansing of sin. Let me ask you a question. Have you had to take more than one bath in your life? I met a few I wondered about, just to be honest. But you've had to take more than one bath. Why? Because you keep getting dirty. That's just a simple fact. And you gotta wash In this kind of humidity, you might have to take three or four a day, you know, depending on what you're doing and where you're going. But what I'm trying to say is this When Jesus washed those disciples' feet, remember Peter objected, said, Lord, no, you're not going to wash my feet. And the Lord said, Peter, if I don't, you'll have no part. And then Peter, as Peter, only Peter could do, the Lord just washed me all over. He said, Peter, you don't need to be washed all over. You don't need a bath. You've been cleansed. It's your feet that are dirty. Your feet need to be washed. In other words, you need to deal with the sin, deal with the dirt in your life, so that you can have fellowship with God. And if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. Listen, I'm glad there's a fountain called Calvary's where where the blood of Jesus flows that was opened at Calvary. There's a place I can go get clean. First John 1 9 says, if we, if we, if we confess our sin, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Folks, if we'd take this admonition serious, this could be a time of great revival in our spiritual heart simply because we're getting clean, we're being purified, we're getting right with God. God would have us too continually come. Thank God He's made a way for my sin to be put away. He's made a way for our hearts to be purified. But then I want you to notice something else. I'm talking about God's people, the purpose of the communion table. Not only is it a time of preparation, purification, but it's an opportunity for pleasant unification. You notice what he said in verse 33, wherefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, tarry one for another You remember he commanded, he rather rebuked them here. In verse 17, he says, Now in this that I declare unto you, I praise you not that you come together not for the better, but for the worse. For first of all, when you come together in the church, I hear that there be divisions among you, and I partly believe it. You know what he said? There's some problems, and you need to solve them before you get to the communion table. Said you need to get them right. You know, I I love folks that I I love to be around folks who are just newly saved and they just believe the Bible. They don't have all the excuses that people who are saved for a while get. They don't have all the obstacles and the oddities that some uh you know if you save a while you sort of develop. They they they don't play the game, they're just real. And I remember years ago preaching there up north in that that church and see it, I was talking about this thing communion. I said, look, if you're not right with each other, just don't come to the communion table, get that right, and then come to the communion table And I'll never forget a brother Heat right in the middle where I'm preaching. He wasn't worried about the decorum of a local church service. He got up and walked across the way and I hear him talking. I mean the the buildings like from Richard Cross and here and I mean all of us are stacked right here. You could you could whisper and be heard from the pulpit and back. So we're mighty close. We have close communion there. But but he he he just said he went over there and he said, You know, I've been awful upset with you here lately. And he said, You have. What about? And he said, Well, I'll tell you what about and he told him He said, but I know I can't come to communion table until I get that right. Will you forgive me for being so ornry? He said, Yeah, I will And he no more done that than a lady got up and she went over here and she said, Oh listen, and I mean look, they're not saying it so everybody can hear it, but you know when you're in that proximity, you're going to hear it And she's like, you know something? I I I've just sort of been mad about this and that and the other. And she said, I want to make that right. And I'm going to tell you something. We had a little taste of heaven around that communion table, because people took the Bible admonition serious. And said, I'm going to get my heart right with God, gonna get my heart right with God's people, and then I'm gonna come and remember the death of the Lord Jesus Christ. A pleasant unification. You know what it brings us together around? Please listen now. It brings us together around the person, the sacrifice, the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. 99. 9999 % of what God's people get at odds about has nothing to do with this book. I'm going to tell you that. Very little. There's very little division that's called by caused by doctrine. I'm talking about in a particular local church. Very little division that's caused by doctrine. You know what's often caused by personalities. And what happens is we try to get spiritual reasons, spiritual reasons. For carnal reactions. I'll pick on Ben because he can take it. I don't like Ben. Now I'm not saying that for me, okay? Because I love Ben. I I don't like Ben. It may be his personality is different, my personality, and we say I don't I don't like that, but you know what we try to do? We try to come up with spiritual issues. I don't think Ben 's as spiritual as he ought to be. Right? You understand what I'm trying to say? You've seen it and I've seen it. And I'll tell you what it does, it it mars the name of Christ. And it hurts the work of God and it grieves the Holy Ghost. And when we come to the communion table like that, there's no observing in a worshipful way what Christ did on our behalf. You know why? Because there's a wall. Let me ask you something. How many of you have been married twenty years or more? Would you raise your hand? Now answer me this, please, honest. Your wife or husband, whichever be the case, you don't need a memo to know when things are out of order. In fact, you may say, what's wrong? Nothing. How many of you know nothing don't mean nothing? Amen. Nothing. Or it can even be a pleasant nothing. Oh nothing. You know what I mean? Tones and yeah that is. I don't know who said that, but that is. That's a little more dangerous nothing. Here's what I'm trying to say. A lot of God's people go on playing a game. Rather than getting right with the Lord. That pleasant unification. I'm going to tell you something, brother and sister, life's too short. It's too short to play games with God and his people. There's a pleasant unification. God's got a purpose for this thing. And by the way, if we didn't have any of that, we've got a clear command in the Word of God that says As often as you do this, you do this in remembrance of me. I'm going to pray, and here's what I want you to do tonight. I want us to take just a few moments to prepare our hearts. I trust you have. We've been talking about this for a while. But I want us to give us one more opportunity to prepare our hearts. Can I get one of our pianists to come just quickly and play? Miss uh who is that? Lydia? Miss Lydia? Why don't you come on up? Just play softly. Play a hymn about the cross, please. And I want us to bow our heads together.