Take your Bible, please, and go to the book of Hebrews, Hebrews chapter 12. Very familiar portion, but I want to point out one word in the text. Hebrews chapter 12 And I'm going to read the first three verses, but there's one word that I'm interested in that's really stood out to me, and I want to magnify that in the service this evening. If you're able, let's stand together and we'll honor the reading of God's Word. Hebrews chapter 12, we'll read verse 1, 2, and 3, please. The Bible says in verse number one, wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. For consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds. The word I want you to look at and I want to magnify this evening is found in verse number two. Notice, finisher. Finisher. Looking under Jesus, Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, the finisher. I want to preach on the finisher for a few moments this evening. Father, I want to thank you for the opportunity that we have to open our Bibles and now bow our heads and wait before you. And we ask, oh Lord, that you would do the work that is needed most in our hearts and in this church. Lord, we want to thank you for your goodness. We thank you for the health and strength to gather. And we do pray now that you would just separate us from the cares, distractions of life, all of those things that the enemy would derail us with, and may our eyes be fixed firmly on thee. And Lord, would you please be our teacher? We bow asking, Lord. We need help from above. Lord, would you teach us things that only you can teach us from this book And Lord, I pray that you'll hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up Jesus. In mercy, empty me of me and fill me with thee. And Lord, I'll thank you for what you do, for we look to you now in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. I want to mention this evening about this word finisher. That really caught my attention. And the truth of the matter is, is that word is not used anywhere else in the Bible. Now you'll find the word finish, you'll find the word finished. But you will not find this word in that form, finisher, anywhere else but right here. The word finisher means to be a perfecter. In fact, it's translated that way in some places. as a perfector. It also can mean a completer or one who consummates or brings to the final conclusion. Jesus, now I want you to ponder this. Jesus is a finisher. Let me say it like this: Jesus is the finisher. He is the one who brings all things to a completion. He doesn't he doesn't stop halfway. He doesn't give up partly through. He always brings things to the perfect conclusion because Jesus is the finisher. Now it's interesting to me that the Apostle Paul said, looking unto Jesus, the author. Now sometimes we get we stop there and we say, Well, he's the author of salvation. He's the author of our faith. But he also said, not only is he the author, but he is the finisher. He's the finisher. I want you to think about some things he finished and look at these with me real quick. Go all the way back to the book of Genesis. And I want you to look at Genesis chapter number two. And I want you to see the work of creation. And see how the Lord is a finisher. Now, I want to remind you that according to Colossians chapter 1 and verse 16, by him, that's Jesus were all things made that were made. So when we're talking about the Creator, I I used to to go and minister on a couple of reserves And they would always talk about the creator, the native reserves, and they would say, well, the creator, the creator, the creator. And I said, well, actually the creator is Jesus Christ. Because according to this text in Colossians 1:16, he made all things. All things were made by him, and there was not anything made that was not made by his hand. He's the Creator. So look what it says in Genesis chapter 2 and verse number 1. Thus the heavens and the earth were what? And all the host of them. The heavens and the earth were finished. If you didn't have any other verse in your Bible that destroyed evolution, Genesis 2 1 does. Because that means he completed it. Means it was complete. Hey, I've got news for you. Mankind was never cavemen. Sitting around trying to learn how to talk. God made them complete. The animals didn't evolve into something simple too complex over a span of millions of years. By the way, we we watched some things, didn't we, this week in our nature uh nature time with our children, and they reminded us through those uh how how fearfully and wonderfully God made everything. Still, my favorite is the giraffe. It's an amazing thing. That giraffe has enough pressure when he bows his head to blow his head off if God hadn't made him a certain way. And God made all down that neck these little check valves that stopped the blood from rushing to his head. And then right at the very end he put another little sponge to catch the blood and to hold it there. so that he don't pass out when he raises up his head. And and then reverses all of those valves so that if he has to raise his head fast and run away, you know, some of us older folks when you get up fast you s you don't You don't just take off, do you? You get up and you make sure all the blood's where it needs to be, and then you proceed so you don't fall over somewhere. But God made him like that. Now think about the silliness And I mean this, the silliness of evolution. How many giraffes, and I like how that man put it, lay there on the savannah looking around, thinking, I better do something about this blood issue, because I mean, I'm gonna either blow my brains out every time or we gotta fix ourselves somehow. How how silly. That had to be done immediately and instantly and completely for that thing to survive. And it's a testimony that when God does something, he does it real good and he completes it all the way. He takes it to a complete conclusion. He is a finisher. He finished creation. But let's go a little further. What else did he finish? We're talking about the finisher, the Lord Jesus Christ. Go to the Gospel, the Gospel of John, please. And I want you to see in John chapter number seventeen. I want you to see something else that he he finished. He brought to a conclusion. He did exactly totally, fully everything he was supposed to do. And this is the work of Jesus Christ, John 17, 4. Look what Jesus said. He's praying here. This is the great high priestly prayer of the Lord Jesus. And in John 17, 4, he says, I have glorified thee on the earth. I have, what's the word? The work which thou gavest me to do. I'm reminded of what was said of Jesus, or Jesus said rather, I do always those things that please the Father. Always. Do you know everything Jesus did please the Father? He did everything He came to do He came to look, the work of the Lord Jesus was complete. He did not leave anything undone He took it to the full conclusion. He took it to that place of perfection. He consummated his work. He did everything he was supposed to do. You say, what did he do? He represented truth. He bore the light. He was the light of the world. And he shone that light into the darkness. And Because men love darkness rather than light. They rejected that light. But he was that light, and my friend, he was faithful and finished the work. He brought it to completion. I'm glad Jesus finished the work the Father gave him to do. He's a finisher. Jesus is the finisher. Jesus doesn't stop. I mean, he's a completer. He's a perfecter. He brings everything to its proper conclusion. The life of Jesus Christ in 33 and a half years was exactly what God intended. Thirty-three and a half years, you imagine If God lets you live, if if if a person lives a hundred years, you know what they'd like? One more day. There's so much left undone. I can still hear old Brother Stenett Balloo. He said, do all you can while you can, son. Don't live a life where you've got regrets when you get old and you can't, because he said, one day you're going to get old and you can't And so do everything that you can do while you can. But the reality is, my friend, that that no matter how hard we try, all of us here Uh look back with regret and there are things that we wish we had have done or wish we we could go back and do but Jesus never Jesus completed the work. He said, I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. Let me show you one more place where Jesus, we're in the same gospel, John chapter 19. And I want you to go down with me to verse number 30. Not only do we see his work in creation, he finishes the work of Jesus Christ, but I want you to see the work of the cross. Because it says in verse number 30, when Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is what? And he bowed his head and gave up the ghost. He finished the work of the cross. You say, what does that mean? That means that he completely paid salvation's price. He completely made sin's payment. He completely bore my sin, and he completely satisfied the God of heaven with the sacrifice of himself on the cross of Jesus Christ. I'm glad that the cross represents the finished work of Jesus in salvation. You know, a lot of people have the idea that you've got to add something to the cross. But there's nothing you can add to the cross. Jesus did not say it is almost finished. He did not say it is just about finished. He did not say it's going to be finished. He said it is finished. And thank God when you trust Christ for your save for your salvation and as your Savior, you are trusting in something that is complete. Your prayers don't help it. Your tears don't help it. Your sorrow don't help it. Nothing that you do adds to or takes away. Salvation is completed. It is finished. And the Lord Jesus is the great finisher. And I love how Paul wrote those words in Hebrews 12, that Jesus, we're to be looking, we're to be looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher. Now you say, what's that about? What are you trying to say? I'm trying to encourage you tonight with this thought that your faith is in a finisher. Your faith is in a finisher. Your faith is in someone who's going to complete what he started. Your faith is in someone who's going to get the job done. He's going to complete the work. He's going to see it through. Listen, I believe there's a lot of God's people that I I don't know that they would ever uh phrase it it this way or they would ever speak these words But they almost have the idea that maybe somewhere down the line possibly God's going to forget them. Or maybe just somehow or another that that that all these promises that God's made might be true for everybody else, but we're a unique situation and it's just not going to be true for us. Well I've got news for you. He's the finisher. And if you've got faith in the finisher, the finisher is going to finish what he started. Because he's the finisher. He's going to complete and perfect and accomplish and bring to the conclusion just exactly uh what he intends. Now listen, I want you to think about this, because it's key to finishing. If you and I are going to finish, we gotta look to the finisher. And if we're gonna finish, we've got to get help from the one who finished already. Now look look what he said here. I want you to consider this. I want you to consider three things tonight quickly. I want you to see the finisher's cross, the finisher's contradictions, and the finisher's consummation. First, think with me about the cross, the finisher's cross. Look what it says back in our text in Hebrews 12. Looking Unto Jesus, verse 2, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. despising the shame and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Think about the finisher's cross When you think about the cross, you don't normally associate joy with it. We don't normally think about the cross was not a joyful, jubilant time. We sing down at the cross where my Savior died. We sing that song and we rejoice, don't we? And rightly we should. There's joy when we think about at the cross, at the cross, where I first saw the light. There's joy in that for us, but I've got news for you that the cross was not a jubilant event for the Lord Jesus Christ. It was there that he suffered, it was there that he bled, it was there that he died, it was there that he endured the wrath of God. for the sins of man. It was there that Hazer said that his that his whole uh visage, his his appearance, his image was marred beyond recognition of a man. He suffered in it's an incredible time of sorrow and darkness. And yet here's what Jesus said. There's joy set before me. What's the joy of the cross? Well, I believe that the joy of the cross were the souls that would be redeemed through the great work that was accomplished there. The great joy of men and women being brought, bringing, like Paul says there in Hebrews 2, many sons to glory. How did those sons get to glory? How did those children get to glory? How does anybody get to glory? They get there through the suffering, the work of Jesus Christ on the cross of Calvary, and there's no other way. Oh, what joy there is around this cross, the joy that was set before him. You'll notice it says that he endured the shame. You say, how'd he endure? I'll tell you how he endured. He got heaven's help. It's no coincidence that he in the Garden of Gethsemane prayed the night through. And you know what Luke said? Luke's the only one that recorded this. Luke said an angel came and strengthened him. An angel came. You say, what do you do? I don't know all the depths of that, but here's what I do know. That angel brought something from heaven that Jesus needed down here on earth. That angel helped sustain him or enable him. And I'll tell you what, if Jesus needed heaven's help, I'm surely going to need it, and you are too. But I'll tell you, my friend, he got heaven's help, and he was sustained, and he endured the cross. But notice this, he also sat down. I like the thought of that. Every Jewish year perked up. Wait a minute, you said he's the high priest. You said he's the great high priest. He's passed into the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God. High priest don't sit down until his job's done. High priest don't sit down until the work's finished. The high priest can't sit down until the blood's been presented and the work is complete. And I'm glad to report to you tonight the work's done. The cross says it's all settled, my friend. And if you if you're not saved, can I urge you today to look to the Lord Jesus because He's already done everything needs to be done There's a friend of mine who got saved, and this was the statement God used to prick his heart. The preacher said as he closed his message, he said this. He can't do anything more than he's already done for your salvation. Can't do any more. Christ has been crucified. He was buried. He rose again the third day. There's nothing else to be done. And he said that that pierced his heart like an arrow from heaven as he sat there and thought, what am I waiting on? What am I looking for? Jesus Christ died. And then they sung that old hymn, It Is Enough That Jesus Died and That He Died for Me. And he said, Well, I reckon it's enough. And he put his faith in Jesus Christ. I'm just saying when you look at the finisher's cross, it'll help you finish too. Jesus keep me near the cross. Should that not be the cry of all of us here tonight? The finisher's cross, oh, what help there is when we consider the finisher's cross. There he cried those powerful words, it is finished. It's there he declared from that torture rack. I finished the work. Salvation's secure. The soul of man can be saved. Everyone who looks to me can be born again. Listen, my friend, and you and I can get encouragement. We're to be looking under Jesus, the author, not just the author, but the finisher of our faith Number two, I want you to see the finisher's contradictions. He goes on and says this in verse 3, for consider him. Stop and think about it. That endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest you be wearied and faint in your minds. I want you to think about the finisher's contradiction. Here's the Creator. Crucified by his creation. That's a contradiction. When you think about the reality that here is the one who gave life, having his laid down. Contradiction. Here's the sinless one becoming sin for sinners. That's a contradiction. You say, what are you getting at? Here's what I'm getting at. These are things we look at and they're in reverse, but they're just in the order God would have them. And he said, I want you to look at these contradictions and I want you to consider them and know this everything may not be the way you think it should be, but everything is the way God would have it be. Now when you get a hold of that, that'll help you. Or rather, when that gets a hold of you. When you realize everything may not be like you want it to be, but everything's the way God wants it to be. You'll stop kicking against the the traces. I've told you before my dad used to raise these work ponies and His dad used ox and they would plow and work these things and one of the biggest things they had to learn is that you're going to get in this harness and stay there. And the young ones especially didn't like it. And the minute something got around their feet, they'd get all jumpy and they'd kick and kick at it and and carry on and and dad would say, just let them kick till they get down their system because they're going to wear the harness whether they like it or not. Or something would, you know, something would slide up and just touch them in the back end and boy some of them would they would sh they would take off like a a firecracker on the 4th of July, just jumping and popping and dancing around. And they had to get to the point where they learnt that that that you're in that trace, you're in that you're in that harness. That that's going to be on you and and and you've just got to get used to it. It was something to see those old ones Man, I mean they were bomb proof. Something would come up and bump them on the leg or or hit them on the side, and they just stand there. They were just used to it because they realized that this was their lot. This was where they were. This was what was planned or ordained, if you'll let me say it that way. I want you to know something. Your life is not a series of random accidents. And know this that the devil's not in charge. And what God permits, it's God's will, and you and I have got to understand some things that God is God, not me nor you. And there comes the place you bow to that and you realize, hey, there may be some contradictions. The Proverbs talks about the prince on foot and the fool on horseback. He talks about seeing some individuals that are in places they ought not to be and some in places where they don't deserve. But you know what? There's a God in heaven who ordains all of that. Look at Joseph in the pit, look at Joseph in the prison, look at Joseph in Potiphar's house, and all of those places are contradictions. He's a prince. God already said it. God had already ordained it, said back yonder, even at his birth, that this young man would rule. He would r rule over family. And it was the will of God. But listen, the timing of God brought him through all those places. And know this, there were contradictions, but contradictions are not conclusions. Contradictions aren't the end. What's my faith in? It's in the finisher. Yes, he hung on a cross. Yes, they laid him in a tomb. But hallelujah, he got up and he's sitting on a throne. He's not on the cross and he's not in the tomb, and thank God he's not going to be nailed to a tree no more. He is Lord God Almighty, and he rules in heaven above. Contradictions aren't the conclusion. God 's people. You stop and think about how God's people are treated in this world and don't think it's going to get better. You better buckle up, brother and sister. It's going to get a lot worse. And God's people are a hated people. There's people today, right now, laying down, maybe while I'm preaching, there's people right now laying down their life for Jesus Christ. There's somebody taking a bullet for Christ. There's somebody having their throat cut for Christ. The only crime is they're a Christian. And they're living somewhere where that's not permitted. You say, oh preacher, they'll never come to these shores. You better hold on. I fear, I fear of what the future brings. But here, I'm glad to know when that fear rises in me, I'm glad to know there's a God in heaven who's still God, and his grace is sufficient. I remember sitting with those dear brothers from Russia, and they were board members of the voice of the martyrs, and these men bore the marks of suffering. Their faces had scars and their hands were disfigured and they bore many of them, even disease that they still carried from their times of imprisonment. And you hear those men talk. And I'll be honest with you, I didn't even feel like I was worthy to sit in the same room. I didn't quite feel like even I mean, there are times you hear that you hear that sort of thing, you feel like, am I a Christian My Christianity costs me what it costs those men. And you see the joy and the love for Christ on their face. And they talk about the multitudes of people. Some of them family members and others who were killed. They knew their lives had been taken, and some taken right in front of them, others taken and put in these camps and never seen again. You hear that and you think, what a contradiction. God's people all they do is want to serve God, all they do is want to love the Lord, all they want to do is keep people out of hell. All they want to do is tell others about Jesus. All they want to do is live right, and look what they have to endure. But I've got news for you. The contradictions are not conclusions. That's not the end of the story. My Bible says one day when he comes again, he's going to call us up into glory. And listen, you're going to rule and reign with him upon this earth. And those that were treated like the off-scouring of the earth are going to be ordained to sit on thrones and rule and reign. Hallelujah. Thank God. Contradictions aren't conclusions. And when I look at Jesus I consider the fact that they nailed him on a cross, but thank God he sits today on a throne and one day he's coming back as king. Boy, you ought to consider him. This world didn't end to the story You may leave out of here. Think about old Stephen. Stop and ponder old Stephen There he is. And all he's done is try to tell people how to be saved, not go to hell. I mean that's his crime. Preaching Jesus And they stone him. And they're, I mean, I'm telling you, the barbaric nature of that kind of death is incredible. As one by one the stones break his bones and bust his skin and bruise him, he begins to bleed, and little by little life ebbs away. What a contradiction. He wasn't a thief. He wasn't a murderer. He wasn't a low-down person. He wasn't a criminal. I I I'll tell you what, you you look at the world and you think, especially the world we're living in, it seems like the criminals are better off than the the good people. You start wondering, but let me tell you something. Contradictions aren't conclusions. Peter's life's leaving, or excuse me, Stephen's life is leaving him But the Lord lets us get a little glimpse in the crossing over. You know what he saw? The Lord stand up. That crowd hated him and was was wanting him dead, and they were going to make sure he was, and here his life is leaving. But when he gets to glory, he gets a heavenly salute from the captain of glory as he welcomes him home, says, Come on home, son. It's safe up here. I've got news for you, my friend. You may go through contradictions down here, but they're not the end of the story. I believe when the Lord comes, the Antichrist is going to have a story that'll be believable to the whole world. And when the church of God is taken out, when the believers in Christ are raptured. I really believe in my heart. I used to hear preachers say, Man, they'll tear the doors down and fall on the altars. I don't think they will. I think there'll be great joy that that aggravating crowd that was always preaching Jesus and Telling them what the Bible said. I believe it's going to be great joy if that outfits out of here. They're gone. They're gone. Spirit of God's gone. You think about. You think about that. Here, my friend, uh there that that jubilation over God's people being gone. They're out of here. I've got news for you. There's gonna come a day when we'll come back. And when we come back, there's no jubilation involved. We're going to come back on those white horses. And the Bible says when we come back, we're coming back to that great battle. And we call it a great battle because the armies of the earth have assembled to do war with the king. But I'm telling you, all he's going to do is speak. Just speak. There's not going to be sabres rattling or swords pulled and ammunition uh discharged. It's just gonna sp he's gonna speak. And the blood flows. You know where you're gonna be? You're gonna have a ringside seat. With the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. I'm telling you, the finisher had some contradictions, but those contradictions were not the conclusion. I was a little boy, my mother played the WWNC 570 AM radio every morning. We'd get up and uh I'm trying to think of that guy's name. What was his name? Scotty Rodamor. I knew it was Scotty Rodamor He was the he was the man on the station bit and he was on the station fifty plus years. And uh Scotty Rhodah would tell you the weather and you know when you're little and at school you're praying, Oh Lord, let it be snow today. Please send us a snowstorm. And those rarely come, but anyway. Um then we would listen to the weather and they'd tell the news and they'd talk about all that. And then he would have Paul Harvey in that on that morning segment. And I loved that as a kid. I loved his voice and he'd tell the story. How many know who I'm talking about? And then he would tell part of a story, but he'd get to the place and say, and now for the rest of the story. And then he'd tell you the rest. And it would often be a complete opposite of where you thought that thing was going. It would be such you'd be listening, you're thinking, oh man, this is going to be terrible. It's going to end horrible. And then that it would be a contradiction because the end of the story would be so much different than what he had previously told. I've got news for you, friend. Consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners. Notice what he said, lest you be wearied and faint in your minds. Because you need to remember that the contradictions, again, do not bring us to the conclusion. That's what brings me to my third point, and I'm through the finisher's consummation. You see, we don't end with the cross and we don't end with the contradictions. I take you back to what I started with in verse 2, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher. The finisher. There's the consummation. There's a finisher of our faith. There's going to be a completion of this thing. It's going to come to an obvious conclusion, an intended conclusion. And he's taking it there. Or let me say it like this, he's taking us there. We're heading in that direction. You say, what is the consummation? Well let me say this quickly, salvation is complete, meaning there's nothing left undone. Your soul is secure, there's nothing that can be lost, and heaven is sure because our security rests in the finisher. The finisher. Folks, you're not going to make it to heaven because you're holding on and out and gritting your teeth and trying. It's not on you. It's on him. He's the finisher. We believe in the perseverance of the saints, not because of the saints, but because of the Savior. We believe in the completion of this thing, not because we do well, but because he does all things well. We believe that the reality of i is that we're headed to a finished line and he's going to carry us across Because he's the finisher of our faith. What he started back yonder, my friend, he's going to complete somewhere in the future. And my friend, what God's done in our lives, oh, how we ought to thank him for it. If salvation was up to you to finish, you'd never get the job done. If salvation was resting on your shoulders to see yourself through, oh my friend, you would never get across the finish line But it's on him. He's the finisher. And I'm glad that's why Paul reminded those Philippian believers, being confident of this very thing, he that hath begun a good work in you will complete it. Can I say it like this? He'll finish it. What he started, he's going to finish. When the s listen, when the Spirit of God gets a hold of you and saves you and transforms you, he's going to just keep working until he gets you to glory. It's his work It's his work. He's the finisher. He's the finisher. He doesn't give up He don't give up. I started to ask you, have you ever been just through with somebody? But let me ask you like this, you ever been just through with yourself? I'm glad the Lord don't get that way. I'll tell you something else. Whole different truth, but let me say it like this. God's not through with Israel yet either. Not according to my Bible. Paul gives us a great deal of insight in the book of Romans 9, 10, 11 He said, you know, we're that wild branch been grafted in, but God's not through with the, he's not through with that olive tree. He's not through with his people. He's got something in store for them. He's got a plan and a purpose. He's not through with them. And I've got news for you. He's not through with you either. He's a finisher. He's a finisher. He's gonna take to perfection. How many of you start projects and never finish them? My father-in-law, my father-in-law must have had ADHD times 10. He'd start a thousand things and never get I mean he'd have projects, didn't he, honey? He had projects everywhere Had cars sitting here. Yeah, I gotta put a motor in that thing. Yeah, I need to put a rear end in that thing. That no bear needs transmission. And he'd put this on it, that on it, this on it. He had a thousand projects. In fact, when he went to heaven, we found out he had a thousand projects on a hundred different properties around the county that he was working on. Hey, you go come get this. He's been working on this. He's been working on this over here. He had projects everywhere. Many of us do the same thing. We start something, I'll finish that later. We start, I'll finish that later. I'll finish that. And what happens? Sometimes we don't ever get it finished. But I serve a God who what he started, he's finishing. He's working to completion. He's bringing to perfection. He's working to a conclusion. He's taking God. He's taking each one of us Just exactly the what? You say, what's his conclusion? Likeness to his beloved son? And one day you say, when's that going to happen? In the very presence of Jesus himself. We see the consummation of the finisher. I don't believe it's an accident. And when Paul said, This is how you run your race, looking unto Jesus, the author. And finisher. You need to see the Lord Jesus tonight is the finisher. Look at his cross. He finished the work of the cross. Look at the contradictions. Oh my friend, although he faced the contradictions, they weren't the conclusion. We see a consummation. And you know one day, one day every knee's gonna bow. And every tongue's going to confess. Every God hater, every Christ denier, every individual that blasphemes that precious name that we count so dear. Everyone Everyone is going to confess he's Lord. He's Lord. He's Lord. What a day that's going to be. When the King of Kings is recognized as Lord of all. Oh, my friend, listen. He's a finisher. You want to finish? Paul said, I want to finish my course with joy. I believe he understood that he had put his faith in a finisher. He had put his faith in the finisher. And he knew, hey, I'll finish, because I'm trusting the finisher. And may the Lord help us to keep our eyes. Not just on the author. Thank God for the author. But he's the finisher of our faith. Let's stand together.