Appreciate the old country church trio and those young fellas helping them out. Gonna have to change their name though, be just thinking a good name for 'em, Blaine. The old country church trio and the outriggers. Alright? You can patent that fellas. Really got to. Would you open your Bibles please to Revelation? I'm going to invite you to stand with me. I'm going to read one phrase from one verse and then we're going to go to chapter two. But I'd like to read Revelation one, verse one , first five words , Revelation chapter 1, verse 1, the first five words say this: the revelation of Jesus Christ. If you get anything out of this study, I want you to get out of this study that this is the revelation of Jesus Christ. Start to finish. There's no place in this book where it is not a revelation of Jesus Christ. We're going to move this evening into Revelation 2 and 3 and look at the seven churches of Asia Minor. And in looking at those seven churches of Asia Minor, I'm reminded again, this is the revelation of Jesus Christ. Father, please help us now. We stand where no man can stand alone. Lord, we ask that you would do the work that's needed in every heart. Get glory, honor, and praise unto yourself. And we'll thank you for all that you do. We're looking to thee now. We pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. As we move through Revelation, I want you to notice that the scene is ever changing. We leave Revelation chapter 1 on the Isle of Patmos, a man who is imprisoned there in a sense, or banished there, for his testimony and faith in the Lord Jesus. We move to Revelation 2 and 3 and we see the seven churches and we move from that scene of solitary confinement, that scene of a solitary revelation. To the scene of a corporate revelation where we've got these seven churches and what the Lord is doing there. When we get to Revelation chapter 4, we leave earth and we move up to heaven. And we see a scene that unfolds up there as God gathers his children around. And then we'll move from Revelation 4 on, and we'll go back and forth from earth to heaven. From earth to heaven. And we'll see the revelation of Jesus Christ. Although the scene changes, the theme never does. The scenes will change, we'll move, like I said, from earth to heaven, from heaven to earth. But the theme is still the revelation of Jesus Christ. Not only is he King of kings and Lord of lords in heaven above, he's king of kings and lord of lords on earth below. In fact, everywhere in between, he's still just the same, Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and forever. Now, as we move into this portion, I want you to see the seven literal churches. If you and I had been alive in this day, we could have traveled to Ephesus and assembled with the saints there. If we could have traveled over to Smyrna or Pergamos or Thy Tyra, that very wealthy busy place or gone on further and visited Philadelphia or Laodicea. You could have gone to any one of these seven assemblies of saints and worshipped alongside of them. There are seven literal churches. But there's something for us to learn in them, and I want you to note three things. I'll re-emphasize this as we go through them. But I want you to notice first that every church has a specific revelation. Every church. In fact, in the very beginning of each address, the church is spoken to by the Lord Jesus, who reveals himself in some way or another. He makes himself known. He's making himself known because he is what they need. Don't miss that He makes himself known because the answer to what ails them is found in him. And I would say the same is still true tonight: that what we need is still found in the Lord Jesus. If Jesus is not enough, then there's nothing to meet your need. Evangelist Bobby Brown used to preach for me, and we had a group of dear people that had been falsely instructed under charismatic doctrine, and they were always looking for more. Always looking for more. And I tried to help them from the Word of God. I remember Brother Brown said, son, if Jesus is not enough, nothing else ever will be. Boy, that's true. If he's not enough, you see, he's enough for our church today. He's enough for your needs as an individual. He's enough for every family. Jesus Christ is enough. And every church got a fresh revelation of who Jesus is. But as I stated last week, don't forget that that revelation had already been given to John back yonder on the Isle of Patmos. The Lord never contradicts his word or his previous revelation. What he was, he is. What he is, he always will be. You and I don't have to worry about the Lord springing something new on us because He is an eternal yet unchanging God. And so he's revealed a revelation. Then I want you to see every church gets an evaluation. God evaluates every church. The Lord Jesus says, I see your works. I know what you believe. I know your false doctrine. In other words, he reports on the good and the bad. Every church receives some recognition. And then all but a couple of churches receive rebuke. He recognizes what's good, he rebukes what's not good. And what does that tell you? That tell you he that tells us he knows about his church. He knows his people. How many of you know that something can look good and not be good? Sure it can. I mean it can look it can look like boy that's uh I I don't know what they're doing with bananas nowadays, but I eat those things very frequently. But uh I've noticed that sometimes there'll be these bananas and the feeling looks good. And you open them up and they're awful. And uh, you know, it it looks enticing. I mean, you feel that thing and well you get hungry enough, even though an old banana looks good. And uh you start to eat and you're like, ooh, that thing's either overripe or some of them are just so green, it's like chewing on a twig. The church hides nothing from the Lord. He sees it all. He sees what's praiseworthy. By the way, oftentimes what's praiseworthy in his eyes is often looked down upon by the eyes of the world. Don't let the evaluation of the outside world change your mind about what God's already said in his word. If God evaluates and says it's good, it's good. In fact, when he looked on this old earth after he'd created, made man and woman, he said, it's very good. Now the world will tell you that ain't good no more, but I'll tell you God still says, it's very good. God's evaluations are trustworthy evaluations. So he's going to evaluate every church. We'll see that. And then he's going to give an invitation. Three things, a revelation, evaluation. He's going to give an invitation. And his invitation is to take the remedy to hear every church. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith. Every church, even the Laodicean church, he that hath an ear, let him hear If you've got an ear, an ear to hear God, if you've got an ear to hear the Lord Jesus, if you've got an ear to hear the Holy Spirit of God, He's saying, Let him hear. In other words, let him hear and obey. Let him hear and heed. Let him hear and apply. Because he's wanting to help. He's given the invitation. And by the way, every church is given the invitation. Him that overcometh. Come be an overcomer. Come come and and and and overcome whatever challenge, whatever obstacle, whatever difficulty, whatever uh satanic obstacle that's laying in the pathway to him that overcomes. Everyone he gives the invitation. Come and overcome. Aren't you glad you can overcome through the Lord Jesus Christ? There's no other way. David wrote, By him have I leapt over a wall. You say, what does that mean? That means that he got his victory by leaning on the strong arm of the Lord. That it was the help of the Lord that got him through. And whether you live in Ephesus or Smyrna or Pergamus or Thytira or Sardis or Philadelphia or Laodicea or Elkon, Maryland, it does not matter. You can overcome with the help of the Lord, lean on his strong arm, and hear and heed his invitation to come and join him, as he makes you more than conquerors through him that loved us and gave himself for us. And so we have in every church a revelation, an evaluation, and an invitation. By the way, that's the way God still works today. God still reveals Himself to us not in special new revelation, but in recorded revelation. And he reveals himself as the answer. And he makes the evaluation. You know, we see him here. What's he doing? He's walking among the golden candlesticks. What's he doing there? He's inspecting. He's making his evaluation. He's walking among his What's He doing here tonight? What's he doing in our hearts as we've gathered here? He's walking among his people. He's walking among us. He's working. He's inspecting. He's looking and he's speaking. And he's given the invitation. Come follow me. He may be calling some to come follow him in salvation. He may be calling some to come follow him in repentance as far as some life style or some path or some choice or some habit or some sin, and he's calling and saying, Come follow me. He's giving the invitation, and he that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith He's working. That's exactly what he's doing in this day. I want you to look briefly. It's not my intention tonight to examine every church in detail. But I want to briefly look at every church, and I want you to see them, please, for what they are. If you'll note the first church, Revelation chapter 2, verse 1 to 7. This is the church at Ephesus. If you're making notes, this is the formal church. We'll call it the formal church. Under the angel of the church of Ephesus write, These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand. Who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks? I know thy works and thy labor and thy patience. And how thou canst not bear them which are evil, and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them liars, and hast borne and hast patience, and for my name's sake hast laboured and hast not fainted. Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love. That's why we call it the formal church. It has the outward appearance. Of orthodoxy, but it lacks the inner fire of fervency They've left their first love. Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent and do the first works, or else I will come unto thee quickly and r will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent. But this thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life which is in the midst of the paradise of God. By the way, what he offers is a whole lot better than what we often settle for. Notice here again this church, this formal church. Someone said this church sets forth the issue of fundamentalism. Here is a church sound in doctrine, but sound asleep. A church that has left its first love. They were outwardly doctrinally accurate. God praised them. He praised them for their hatred of the Nicolaitans. I believe the doctrine of the Nicolaitans was the early seeds of the clergy laity, the priestcraft idea that comes to full fruition later on in Thytira. But what we see here is God saying to this church, church, this is who I am. He reveals himself here. Notice as the one that holds the seven stars in his right hand and walks in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. He wanted them to know though your worship has become formal, your Savior is still alive and well He's still walking among you. You might treat it as mere ritualism, but he's the God of heaven who's very real. You say, I want you to know I'm the answer. Jesus says I'm the answer. And to this crowd, can I say this? Do you realize it is possible to have both facts and fire? It's possible to be orthodox and on fire for the Lord. You can be doctrinally straight and be definitely alive in Jesus. We don't have to have either or. I remember a pastor used to stand in the in our Bible class, and he would say, Men, don't leave your intellect out of this. He said, what we're praying for is intellect on fire. Listen, I'm glad that the church don't have to be a first loveless church. Someone said we ought to quit naming churches first Baptists and start calling them first loveless. Because sadly some have fallen in that direction. But again, I say to you, Jesus is the answer. Recognize that he is the one who walks among the golden candlesticks. And invites you and I to come join him and overcome and eat from that tree of the paradise. Oh, listen, there's food to be had, there is fruit to be enjoyed. There is something for your spiritual man that goes beyond the dead, dusty, dry ritualism of the spiritual atmosphere of this day. So, dear brother, sister, let's learn from that little church at Ephesus. Let's look at the next church. The church at Sardis. Here is the church, or excuse me, Smyrna. The church at Smyrna is the church that is fearful. Here's the fearful church. And unto the angel of the church in Smyrna write these things, saith the first and the last, which was dead and is alive I know thy works in tribulation and poverty, but thou art rich. And I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan. Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer. Behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison that you may be tried And ye shall have tribulation ten days. Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death. Here's that church. And can I say here, we have a church that it sets forth the issue the first issue was the issue of fundamentalism without fire. The church in Smyrna is the church of ritualism. And we say that because we see that this church had the infiltration of the Jews. Judaism always viewed Christianity as the enemy. And rather than conquer it outright, they sought to corrupt it. Everywhere Paul preached in those early days, he had to deal with the Judaizers who came along and said, Now Paul only told you part of the story. You need to hear the rest from us. Go be circumcised. You need to hear the rest from us. Keep the law of Moses. You need to hear the rest of the story. You can't be right with God unless. Don't that sound like some brethren of our day? That you can't be right with God unless you fall into our little program and walk lockstep with our little desires. And I've got news for you. Anytime you go to Adam to Jesus, you start messing up Any additions to the Lord Jesus is always a subtraction as far as real spirituality is concerned. It has always been Jesus, Jesus only, not plus him Jesus plus something, it is Jesus Christ and him alone. God tells us it's satanic. He talks about the synagogue of Satan. And I believe he's linking this corruption of Judaism with Christianity, with what the devil would desire to do, take the dead rags of religion and put on the living body of the church. That's what the devil always wants to do. You know what? He wants you to be religious, not real. The devil don't care how religious you get, he does have trouble with you being real. And there is a world of difference. Well, we've got the church at Smyrna. Go on with me, if you would, please, here and look at verse number 12, and we come to the next church, the church at Pergamos. Pergamos is the faltering church, the faltering church. And to the angel of the church in Pergamous, write, These things saith he, which hath a sharp sword with two edges. I know thy works and where thou dwellest, even where Satan's seed is. And thou holdest fast my name and hast not denied my faith. even in those days wherein Antipas was my faithful martyr, who was slain among you where Satan dwelleth. But I have a few things against thee. Because thou hast there them that hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balach to cast a stumbling block before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed unto idols, and to commit fornication. So hast thou also them that hold to the doctrine of the Nicolaitans, which thing I hate. Repent, or else I'll come unto thee quickly and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. To him that overcometh will I give to Eda the hidden manna, and will give him a white stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no man knoweth, saving he that receiveth it. So as you look at this church here in Pergamos, we see the church that is faltering. Someone said it sets forth the issue of clericalism. The idea that the church is divided in a caste system. This was the growing fruits of Nicolaitism. Although it was hated, it was still getting heads up among them. There was a division beginning in this in this church, a division that said, hey, uh that that there's a difference between clergy and laity. I've got news for you that's not taught in this Bible. There's no such thing as that teaching in the Word of God. The Bible doesn't elevate one above another. All we are brethren. All we are brethren. Listen, my friend, the only thing God does for the pastor is put greater responsibility on his shoulders. He puts a greater load upon his on his shoulders I like how Dr. Clarence Sexton used to put it. He used to say you're either pastoring a church or helping the pastor pastor the church. He said we're laborers together with God. We're co-laborers. We're laboring together one with another. There's no elevation or separation. Oh dear friend, I'm glad the the ground around the Blessed Cross is always level. Has been, will be, forever shall be. Thank God for Jesus Christ who levels humanity. Oh dear friend, let's stick with the old book. Let's just stick with the old brother. Well, we come to the fourth church, and we call this the false church. We find our description beginning in verse 18, and it says, Unto the angel of the church in Thytirah, right, These things saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, and his feet are like fine brass. I know thy works and charity, service and faith, thy patience, thy works, and the last to be more than first. Notwithstanding, I have a few things against thee Because thou sufferest that woman Jezebel, which calleth herself a prophetess, to teach and to seduce my servants, to commit fornication, to eat things sacrificed unto idols I gave her space to repent of her fornications, and she repented not. Behold, I will cast her into a bed, and them that commit adultery with her into great tribulation, except they repent of their deeds. And I will kill her children with death, and all the churches shall know that I am he which searcheth the reins and hearts. I will give unto every one of you according to your works. But unto you I say and unto the rest in Thy Tyra, as many as have not this doctrine. Now this tells me that some were holding to it and some weren't Which have not known the depths of Satan as they speak, I will put upon you none other burden, but that which ye have already, hold fast till I come. And he that overcometh and keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give power over the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, as the vessels of a potter shall they be broken to shivers, even as I received him my father And I will give him the morning star. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. Would you notice with me this church that falters? Someone said that this church here In Fatara is the church that sets forth the issue of priestcraft. Jezebel, if you go back and study, brought in those false prophets, established a priest craft in Israel that ruled over the kingdom. That's why Elijah had to deal with them like he did. When Elijah, Elijah didn't sit down around and have a roundtable discussion. Elijah didn't have he didn't face them and say now, well, let's just talk about our differences and see if we can't come to a common denominator. He said, catch them all and take them down the brook. It's going to be beehead in time. It's time to cut it off. Friends, you don't parlay with with bad doctrine or with priest craft or any of that such. You gotta remove it. You've got to remove yourself from it. And here this church uh they fault they they they faltered, if you will. They they were a false church because of the rising power of priestcraft What was seed in Pergamos went full blown in Thyra. I'll tell you what, churches don't realize how much they influence one another. I know we're an independent Baptist church, but I'll tell you something. Independent Baptists got their own priest craft. They've got their hierarchy. They've got their big shots. They got the men in charge. They they they they've got the individuals who exercise power over those that were permitted to as far as their ministries are concerned, and you don't have to be very brilliant nor very observant to watch churches just mimic each other all over the land You let one start doing something and before you know it it'll sweep through like a wildfire and everybody's doing it. What happened to the holy uniqueness of letting the Holy Ghost lead a people? Whatever happened to individuals saying, we bow to King Jesus, he's the head of this assembly, we follow his lead. We're not looking saying, now what are they doing over there? Or what's that individual? What's that influential? And you know, usually it's somebody that appears to be successful that everybody else tries to follow. They look at that individual and they say, well, he must be doing something right, so let's all do it like him. Well, beloved, I'm here to tell you that's a recipe for disaster. God doesn't doesn't lead by majority vote. God leads through his people. He works in his people, works in his assembly, leads through that that that pastor, that leadership of that church saying As as he follows Christ, follow him. That's the leading of the Lord Jesus. And that's the blessing of God. But this church got away from that. Then we move on quickly to Sardis. And here the Sardis church is a fruitless church. You see, in verse number one, Under the Angel, chapter three. Unto the angel of the church and Sardis write these things saith he that hath the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. I know thy works, that thou hast a name, look at this, that thou livest and art dead Be watchful and strengthen the things which remain that are ready to die. For I have not found thy works perfect before God. Remember, therefore, how thou hast received and heard and hold fast and repent. If therefore thou shalt not watch, I will come on thee as a thief, and thou shalt not know what hour I will come upon thee. Thou hast a few names, even in Sardis. Almost you almost hear the shock of the Spirit of God Even in Sardis. There's a few, even in Sardis. Thou hast a few names, even in Sardis, which have not defiled their garments. They shall walk with me in white, for they are worthy. He that overcometh the same shall be clothed in white raiment, and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life. But I will confess his name before my father, before his angels. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. Notice this church, I believe, sets forth the issue of liberalism. It is the idea that we are successful, therefore we must be right. And at the heart of true liberalism is the idea that if it works, it's right Friend, the end does never justify the means. Just because it works don't mean it's right There's a lot of buildings full of people that's not full of God. There's a lot of crowds that gather together. to supposedly worship the Lord and the Lord is not present. You say, how do you know? Because the Bible truth is rejected. And my friend, listen, it it's a joy to know as we look at the Word of God. Look what he says to that church. He says, I'm the one that hath the seven spirits of God and the seven stars, and I know thy works. He said, I know you appear to be alive, but you're dead. You look like you've got life. You look like you're alive. Oh, listen, I heard an old preacher say one time, he said a dead animal on the side of the road looks like it's faring pretty well You ever seen them swell up, look like their belly's full, maybe just laying there taking a nap? Shake your head. I'll hear something. Stay with me. I know this is we're trying to get through a lot, but it's real, isn't it? And we say, well, he must be farin' well. Well he's dead. He's faring well, all right. He's well dead. And there's many a church that swells, that has the appearance of life. But beloved, listen, there's no life-changing work of the Spirit of God going on. If all it is is a popular gathering place or a public assembling place and there's no power and there's no changing of hearts and lives, you don't have the Church of the Living God. The church of the living God is the place where the God who lives works, and he walks among his candlesticks, and he evaluates our lives, and he makes us more like Jesus. God deliver us from sitting on the pew year after year and being unchanged. Oh, for a holy desperation that says, God don't leave me like I am. I don't want to live another day as I am. Make me what I ought to be. Change me by your grace and power. The old apostle Paul sat and looked death in the face and said, I have not apprehended I'm not there yet, I've not arrived, I still got some growing to do, but I'm pressing on. I press toward the mark Oh, as these men were singing, man that stirred my heart. I said, God help me to press. Help me to press. Help me to press. Not just lay back and coast. Help me not to just ride easy home. Help me to press toward the mark. Oh, beloved, listen, God wants to do something in your life if you will let him. Here's a fruitless church. Philadelphia, you know this church. It's the it's what we call a feeble church. It's feeble. Oh, it's feeble. It's got little strength, we're told, but it had a mighty great savior He says in verse 7 of chapter 3 unto the angel of the church in Philadelphia, write these things. Saith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David, he that openeth, and no man shutteth, and shutteth, and no man openeth. I know thy works. Behold, I have set before thee an open door. No man can shut it, for thou hast little strength, and hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name. Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews and are not, but do lie. Behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet to know that I have loved thee. Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I will also keep thee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon all the world to try them that dwell upon the earth. Behold, I come quickly. Hold that fast which thou hast, that no man take thy crown. Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God. He shall go no more out, and I will write upon him the name of my God, the name of the city of my God, which is New Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from God. And I will write upon him my new name. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. Here is the church that sets forth the issue of revivalism In a word, a church that can be recovered. Here is a church revived, restored, and renewed. Here is a church had little strength, yet God in his infinite wisdom intervened and made them live. He opened doors they couldn't open. He closed doors they couldn't close. He gave them opportunities no man could arrange. It was the working of God through his people. I don't know about you, but that gives me hope. Listen, when Ezekiel wrote those words looking into that valley of dry bones and said, Lord, thou knowest. The Lord said, Can these the bones live? He said, Thou knowest. I'm here to tell you there's not a valley full of dry bones or a Baptist church full of dry bones that the God of heaven can't make live. He can recover, revive, renew, restore, and work in any situation. There's no outfit so desperate, so gone, so dead, so dry, so given up on hope that God cannot step in and do great and mighty things. Beloved, if I didn't believe that, I'd lay my Bible down and close my mouth and go make an easier living. But I'm here to tell you, God can make the dead things live God can raise up from the dead those old dry churches that haven't had a shout in a while, whose eyes are dry, whose hearts are cold. Whose spirits are greet they're grieving the Holy Ghost with their attitude. God can sweep in those places and make those things live God can do that. I don't believe there's a church so far gone that God can't come by and breathe life and it live. You know why? Because He's the God of the Philadelphian believers. He's the God who said, you might be little, you might have no strength, but I'm going to open a door that'll amaze you. I'm going to do a work that'll astound you. I'm going to accomplish things that you never dreamed possible because I have that kind of power. Aren't you glad that the blessings of God don't depend on the abilities of you and I? His power accomplishes what our puny little efforts can never do. Oh, what things we learn from the Philadelphian church. Now we come finally to the last The Laodicean Church is a fashionable church. They're fashionable. And under the angel of the church of the Laodiceans, right. These things saith the amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God. I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot I would thou work cold or hot. So then, because thou art lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I'll spew thee out of my mouth. Because thou sayest I am rich and increased with goods, and have need of nothing. And knowest not that thou art wretched, miserable, poor, blind, and naked. I counsel thee to buy me gold tried in a fire, that thou mayest be rich, and white raiment that thou mayest be clothed And that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear, and anoint thine eyes with thy salve that thou mayest see. As many as I love I rebuke and chasten. Be zealous therefore and repent Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come in to him, will sup with him, and he with me. To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne Even also as I overcame and am sat down with my father in his throne. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. The church at Laodicea had become fashionable. They were rich yet poor. They were clothed yet naked. They could see but blind. Oh, how how good they looked in the eyes of men, how gross they were in the eyes of God. Oh, listen, my friend, I want you to see a church here that sets forth, as one preacher said, the perennial issue of materialism. The perennial issue of materialism. I don't care how poor you are, materialism can still be a problem. I don't care how little you might have, those that little that you have might just turn into a great big problem When we are increased with goods, how quickly do goods become God's? When we have lots of things, how little we often worry about the giver of all things. Oh, listen, dear friend, here is a church that was fashionable in nature, but they were found at fault. And you know, in every one of these churches, as I've tried to put out , God said, this is who I am. Jesus said, this is who I am. You know what that's a call to? That's a call to look to Him. To look to him and realize he's the answer. All the things the Laodiceans had could never take the place of him, who's the Amen, the faithful true witness, the beginning of the creation of God. Everything, listen, you know what they're doing? They're down here playing with marbles when there's a diamond waiting to be put in their hands. Oh listen, know this tonight that He is still the answer. Look at Him as the revelation. Look at the evaluation. Learn. Say, God speak to me, because every one of these problems can exist right now in this church or in your heart. May we search our hearts and see. But then, oh, hear the invitation. Hear the Spirit of God. You know what amazes me that God can take the same passage of Scripture and speak in fifty different ways. Isn't that amazing? How he can speak to you about something. I heard a fellow one time he got under conviction about tithing, and the preacher didn't ever preach on tithing. But he got under conviction for it. You say, how'd that happen, God? God took his word, worked in his church, dealt with that heart, that fella had an ear to hear, and he did business with the Lord. That's why I don't believe that that you and I have got to make sure we nail every little thing. Because I'll tell you, God's big enough to know everything that I can't see in your life and in mine too. He's able to do that. But now I said all of that. Don't have a heart attack on me. I said all of that as an introduction. I want to give you my message. Two points, and I'm done. Number one, the church. What how does this fit? The revelation of Jesus Christ We're getting ready to see. We've already looked at the things that are. That's what we're looking at. We're looking at the things that are. We looked at what was going on in John, Revelation 1. And now we're getting ready to look at things to come. But what's the church in here for? Why did he stick those two chapters right here at the beginning of this the revelation? I'll tell you why. Because the church is God's place of activity in this age. You know what God's doing? He's working in the church. You know where God's blessing is? It's on the church. Do you know where God's business is done? It's done in the local church. As far as God is concerned, that is the place of his activity. And to divorce yourself, I know Harold Camping said years ago, God's give up on the church. He said he said you ought to all his you know isn't it funny? He told all his listeners, you know, leave your church but don't quit listening to me. You gotta listen to me. I'm always suspect of a rascal Who will say, Now you leave that and just don't don't leave me now. You pay attention to me. There's something in that. I'm not listen, God knows he'll deal with him. But uh the y there's something suspect about that Know this, know this. God's not done with the church. Say, preacher, how do you know? Because church is still here. If he is done with the church, we wouldn't be here. If he was through with the church, he would already call us home Now listen, the place of where's God working? He's walking among those candlesticks. If you want God's blessing on your life, yoke up with the church If you want God to use your ministry, bring it under the authority of a local church and labor for God with the church. Listen, there's too much done disassociating from the church. And we've got multitudes of confusion, corruption sweeping across the land that would be hindered if the local church was the center and place of that activity. Remember, God's working in his church. And I love the fact. Did you notice how hard some of these places were? One outfit was where Satan's seat was. I don't know all that means, but I from what I've studied, it means it was a place where the devil had a whole lot of say. He had a whole lot of power. I've been in a few places where I believe the devil had the ascendancy around there. I've been in a few places I told my wife that oftentimes When when we would lead places up north, you you just feel like that darkness was falling off of you. The weight was very real. We used to go to these powwows and try to preach the gospel. And I'm telling you, friend, down here they might do a little show powwow, but they're powwows where they're talking to spirits. It's not the spirit of God. And there's power present in those things that is not of heaven above. It's from hell beneath. And I'm telling you, there's the devil don't like people coming in. But you know what? He had God was doing something where Satan's seat was C. T. Stud said some would like to live within the sound of the chapel bells. He said, give me a place, let me run a rescue mission within a yard of hell. And you can run a rescue mission within a yard of hell because Jesus said, I'll build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. The church is the place of God's activity. And listen, the devil can't put God out of business. He can't shut down his doings. Greater is He that is in you than He that is in this world. Know that tonight and be encouraged. But know that the church is God's place of activity. My friend, that's where you ought to anchor down. Just anchor down. On Friday, oh excuse me, Saturday night, we're going to have our our I Love My Church banquet. And uh I'm not going to give away all that's gonna go on, but we're gonna have somebody speak that's been a church member a long, long, long, long, long, long, really long time. And and I want you to know something that didn't happen on accident. Don't happen on accident. I'm still here, Sister Modena, she sat right here between where the Wikers and the Kanois sit in the little church I first pastored. She was a A widow lady, her husband had pastored mountain churches all her life, and Sister Modena would always say, Preacher, you don't finish on accident Gotta do it on purpose. She'd clap her hands. She's an authoritative little thing. Not little. She's a tall lady. She'd clap her hands. She'd say, You won't finish on accident. And I'd just been preaching a little while, pastoring just starting. And she would challenge me to do it on purpose. You're gonna finish on purpose. Know this, friend, if you get uh yoked up in a local church, you do it on purpose. Listen, don't be a tumbleweed that's blown about by every uh wind that comes blowing round, put your roots down, anchor in, say, God, you said you'd bless the church. I'm going to give myself to the labors of it and commit to it. And God, I'm going to serve you in it and watch heaven smile on it. It won't be easy. There'll be hell to fight and the devil'll show up and you'll get discouraged, get your feelings hurt, you get your toes stepped on You might leave with a tear in your eye. You might leave with a fist balled up. Just put it in your pocket if you do. But listen, the r the reality is, if you'll if you'll settle in and settle down, you'll see the blessing of heaven on it God honors that. Oh, hear me that the church is the place of God's activity. Number two, the church on earth has an expiry date. The church on earth has an expiry date. I'm gonna tell you something. You get to Revelation four, pardon the bad English, we ain't here. Revelation chapter 4, there's no church here. Now we're up yonder. We move into the heavens. We move to a scene that's on the heavens in the heavens above. Oh what a scene it's gonna be. Well, we might have to recarpet the church. We get up in there looking around and realize just what is awaiting on us. And listen, none of it, none of it is just illusion. All of it's reality It's what's coming. It's what you gotta look forward to. Some somebody very cynically said, Oh heavens just pie in the sky. Well, I don't know about you. I like a little pie. Amen. And it's not just pie in the sky. It's the reality of the redeemed. It's home. It's where you'll land. It's what God has in store. It's what He's prepared for us over there. The church on this earth has an expiry date. With that said, get in on what God's doing now. Don't fool around and miss what God wants to do in your life. I'm forever grateful. An old preacher took me as a young man. Best I remember, he got hold of my tie. And he was kind of uncouth that way. And he pulled me right close to his face. And he said, listen. If God calls you to preach, live so you don't have any regret. Don't fool around. And here's what he did. We had about, at that time, Dr. Hitchens, we had about 30 preachers. Sitting in the church house. We had a preacher's corner. All of them been called to preach. Most of them have been there all my life at that point and then lived and died sitting right there He turned around. Don't be like him. That's what he said. He said, if God's called you, don't sit around here, do nothing. Now listen, they weren't there serving the Lord. Preacher called them vultures. They were sitting around waiting on the preacher to die so they'd get a good job. Yes, sir. That's what a whole lot of them were hoping. Preacher dies and I can step in. It's a bunch of them like that. He said, don't do that. He said, if they won't let you preach in the church, preach out of the church. Find you a street corner. Go to the bus stop. Go down. We s we set up a little open air meeting on the side of Interstate 40 in the gorge. Sure did. Put put chairs out and Put on side big old wide spot on the interstate. The Lord put it in my heart to do it. I don't know why. Went down there and preached and nobody come. It went that way three nights. Fourth night. Couple was walking their dog. And I don't think they would have come, but that old dog was interested in what was being said. I might see him in heaven. I don't know. But he sure had an interest in what was going on, and that old rascal came over there, and you know what? It drug them in And they sat there and listened to the gospel. Now I don't know what God's going to do with that, but I do know this. God put something in my heart, not just to sit around and do nothing. I've never played sports. I I that was part of my upbringing. Dad just wouldn't let us. But I've often envisioned if I played football, the worst thing in the world to do would be to have to sit on the pew or on the bench. I mean listen, if you're going to play, you practice, you get ready, don't you want to get in the game? Don't you want to get out there and run? Don't you want to get out there and compete? You didn't do all that ev go through all that effort, just sit there and watch somebody else Oh friend, listen, don't be a spectator Christian. I I like that statement in her bulletin. Where'd mine go? I love that. I I read it here this morning, and I didn't even bring my bulletin with me I love it. I believe it was old Beecher that said this. Yeah, Dr. Lyman Beecher up in Boston. Here's what he said. He said, It's not I that do it, talking about his church. He said, It's my church. I preach as hard as I can on Sabbath, then I have four hundred members who go out and preach every day of the week. Well, I like that. You know why? Because if every man gets saved, every man's gonna have to preach. If the gospel goes forth, everybody's gotta take their part. Everybody's got a job to do. Don't be content with just sitting and watching. Say God put me in the game. Let me be a part of what you're doing This thing's got an expiry date, and by the way, the church's expiry date may not be as soon as your personal expiry date. It is appointed unto men once to die Oh dear friend, I don't want to be sitting in a nursing home somewhere unable to do what God's called me to do and look back and say, I wished I'd done it. I want to look back and say, dear Lord, thank you for giving me the opportunity and the strength and help. I tried to do it the best I could, as long as I could, and dear Lord, just take me home when you're through. Uh listen, Dr. Don Sis, 90-some years old, just checked into a nursing home. Dr. Don Sisk, he's director of BIMI, 20 plus years in Japan, as a missionary, served God faithfully all of these years. And they said, Dr. Sisk, I guess you're done. He said, No, I'm not done. Do you know how many people in there need Jesus? He said, I'm just going to tell them all about the Lord Jesus. Hey, that's the kind of spirit to have. There's nowhere to sit on the sidelines and watch somebody else get involved. Say, God, I want to do my part because the church has an expiry date One day the labor will be over, the battle will end, our warfare will be over, we'll be home with the Lord. And listen, there's nothing sweeter than to rest when you've done something worth resting from. We've got a culture that can't sleep. And I don't know that a good hard day's work wouldn't help a lot of that. You work hard and you don't have a whole lot of trouble going to sleep, do you? You might have trouble getting up, but you don't have a whole lot of trouble going to sleep And I'll tell you what, we need to work. The choir reminds us, don't they? Sometimes Brother Bell leads us. Work for the night is coming. Work for the rapture is coming. Word for the Lord is coming. Work for the church's work will be done. There'll be no work in on this earth any longer once we're called up to heaven. The work is done. See the urgency of this hour. The opportunity is brief. Let's be involved. Spurgeon said it like this: I feel that if I could live a thousand lives, I'd like to live them all for Christ. And I should then feel that they were all too little a return for his great love to me. May God give us that spirit. These seven churches over time cease to be Say, preacher, why? Are there no longer people there? Most all of these are very peopled areas, populated areas. You say, preacher, is it because there's nobody there that needs to be saved? I'll tell you why. Nobody hearing. What the Spirit saith. Somewhere they stopped hearing. Isn't it time to say, Dear God? Clean my ears out. Open them up to heaven. So I can hear. Can you hear? What's the Spirit saying to you? How's he speaking to your heart? Could we just quickly stand, our heads are bowed, but our piano is calm, just play something softly. Could we