In a little tent meeting in Saluda, North Carolina. I have just surrendered to preach and And I was trying to be everywhere preaching was. And Brother Tom Hayes was preaching in Saluda. And he sat down at the piano and he said, the Lord give me this the other day, and I want to sing it for the first time, and I hope it'll bless your heart. And it was that song, New Grace. And the only thing I remember is they just about tore that tent shouting. They just about put her on the ground. Man, they were swinging on the ropes and the poles and the and just praising God for grace And I'm glad it's not just a figment of our imagination. It's a reality from God. God gives grace. And the Apostle Paul, if we could bring him from heaven and stand him behind this sacred desk and have him speak to this congregation, he would let you know that God's grace is sufficient. carried him through from every trial and loss and suffering right into the arms of the Lord Jesus when he left this world. And I'm glad there's grace. There's grace that I'm going to need that I don't know anything about. But God's already made provision for it. And there's grace that God's already given, and He is so faithful to give this grace. Grace is awfully hard to define. Uh it's it's a it's something that you and I just you know when God gives it and you know when you need it. And uh we can praise God for it. And so thank God for that. Thank you, Mr. and Mrs. Dell. For that song. I want you to go in your Old Testament with me tonight for just a few minutes in 2 Kings chapter number 2. 2 Kings chapter number 2. And I'm going to read beginning in verse number one and read a lengthy portion. I'm going to read down to verse number fifteen But there's one question in my text that I want to magnify and pull from the Word of God and emphasize here this evening. But in 2 Kings chapter number 2 and verse number 1, the Bible reads, And it came to pass when the Lord would take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind. But Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal. And Elijah said unto Elisha, Tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord hath sent me to Bethel And Elisha said unto him, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they went down to Bethel. And the sons of the prophets that were at Bethel came forth to Elisha and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master from thy head today? And he said, Yea, I know it. Hold ye your peace. And Elijah said unto him, Elisha, tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord has sent me to Jericho. And he said, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they came to Jericho. And the sons of the prophets that were at Jericho came to Elisha. And said unto him, Knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master from thy head today? And he answered, Yea, I know it. Hold ye your peace I just want to insert something here. Most young preachers know things that they just got a tale that may not need to be told. They had an these sons of the prophets had an enthusiasm about what they knew, but I don't know that it needed to be said. You know what Elisha is saying? He's saying, I know that, be quiet. Hold ye your peace. And verse number, where did we get to? Verse number six, and Elijah said unto him, Tarry, I pray thee, here, for the Lord has sent me to Jordan. And he said, As the Lord liveth. And as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And they too went on. And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went and stood to view afar off, and they too stood by Jordan And Elijah took his mantle, now note this please, and watch this, and wrapped it together and smote the waters. And they were divided hither and thither, so that they too went over on dry ground. And it came to pass when they were gone over that Elijah said unto Elisha, Ask what I shall do for thee, before I be taken away from thee. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me. And he said, Thou hast asked a hard thing. Nevertheless, if thou see me when I am taken from thee, it shall be so unto thee. But if not, it shall not be so And it came to pass, as they still went on and talked, that, behold, there appeared a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, and parted them both asunder. And Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven. And Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof. And he saw him no more. He took hold of his own clothes and rent them in two pieces He took up also the mantle of Elijah that fell from him and went back and stood by the bank of Jordan And he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him and smote the waters and said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And when he also had smitten the waters, they parted hither and thither, and Elisha went over. And when the sons of the prophets which were to view at Jericho saw him, They said, the spirit of Elijah doth rest on Elisha. And they came to meet him and bowed themselves to the ground before him. I want you to go back up to verse 14 and see the question. Where is the Lord God of Elijah? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you just now in Jesus' strong and powerful name. We're thankful, Lord, for the privilege that we have to gather in this place, open your word, hear your voice. And I pray, dear Lord, that you would meet the deep need of every heart as you see us, O Lord, thou knowest. And I trust, Lord, you'll do the work that's needed. You'll get all the glory and the praise. And Lord, you'll help us in such a way that we'll know when we leave this place that we've been helped from above. And Father, we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it now in Jesus' strong name, and God's people said. We've just read the Changing of the guard here in the lives of Elijah and Elisha Elijah had a servant, and of course we talked about him just briefly this morning, about Elijah being a man that God used in a powerful way in Israel when he prayed fire down from heaven. And became discouraged, and he went off in the wilderness, and it was there that God ministered to him. But one of the things that God did when he came out of the wilderness is he gave him Elijah. He gave him a helper. He gave him someone to come alongside of him. And, well, the Bible tells us that he poured water on his hands. He was a servant to Elijah. And so Elisha became uh his helper, his partner. Perhaps Elisha did not know that what God was doing in his life was preparing him to take Elijah's place. And as he watched him minister and serve, he began to understand some things that I think this question reveals As he watched Elijah do miracles and watched Elijah serve God and stand boldly and confront the king and Preach righteousness and lead the nation. I believe he began to understand that this is not about Elijah, but it is about the God of Elijah. And I believe what he began to understand is that God is no respecter of persons, and the very thing that he needed, now that he's going to replace this man is that he needed the same power and the same God that this man had. And he said, where is so we asked the question, he's back at the same place. You read the account, we've read it already, they cross the Jordan River, and when they do, Elijah takes that mantle off And he hits left, right, and all of a sudden the Jordan River splits. And the Bible says they cross on dry ground. This is more than just holding back the flow of the river and letting it go on its way. This is a miraculous parting that dried the very ground. I mean, we've all been around water when the tide goes out and you're left with all that mud Now the water's not present, but the mud still is. And it'll be there till the tide comes back. There was no mud on their feet when they crossed the Jordan River. They went across on dry ground. It was a miracle work of God. The mighty power of God parted the Jordan River. And after the departure of Elijah up into heaven by the chariots of fire, Elisha had made a request and said, Give me a double portion. Now Let me say this, it was not in the hand of Elijah to give the power to Elijah. Men don't control the power of God. The power of God controls men. It's the power of God that's in it. Listen, Elijah couldn't just say, now, Elisha, I'll give you that, like he would give him some garment. Now that mantle is key in this story Because the mantle is a representation of God 's power and the prophet's office. And it was a symbol, an outward symbol of some inward power that God had invested into that office and to the one who held it. And so he takes up that mantle that fell to the ground when Elijah went up into heaven. And now he's back at the Jordan River. Obviously it started flowing again. God didn't leave it parted and he didn't leave the ground dry. He let the river go back to its normal course. And now Elisha stands on the other side of the river and he needs to get across, and he raises the mantle and does as the Bible says, asks the question. Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And he hits the water left and right, and God does for him what he did for Elijah. He parted the river supernaturally. And Elisha went over. And although the Bible does not say that he went over on dry ground, The phrase that is used here is he went over literally in the same manner. So in other words, he went over on the same dry ground. He went over just like they had came over the first time, and he did so because God 's power was at his disposal. So, what's in this question? I think it's a question some folks ought to be asking tonight. It's a question my heart's yearning to ask of the Lord. Where is the Lord God of Elijah? It's a question that that speaks of the necessity of the mighty power of God in our lives. I'm not talking about God raising up prophets again. That office is long past. We're in a dispensation where it's no longer needed, for we have a complete Bible in 66 books from Genesis to Revelation. But we do need the same mighty power of God. We need God's power. Listen, if Christianity is anything, it is the power of God The Bible says that the gospel is the power of God and of salvation to everyone that believeth. I'm telling you that there is power in true Christianity. And there's power in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not a powerless thing. Now, religion is powerless. There's enough of that in the world today. We've got enough powerless demonstrations, or what does the Bible call them, forms of godliness, but denying the power thereof Their shells, you know this time of year the uh the what's the proper name, cicadas. We call them katidids But the cicadas are leaving out, and they're leaving their little carcasses. Have you seen them on the trees around? I've seen a few of them starting to show up. And uh it looks like a cicada that once was there, but it's he's empty. You take it and open it up, you know, there's nothing in there. He's left it, it's just a shell. And that's the way a lot of Christianity is today. It's just a shale of what it once was. There's no light, there's no power, there's no evidence of reality, there's just that little shale. And I don't know about you, but I don't want to have a form of godliness with no power. Our lives need to be a demonstration of the power of God And I'm not talking about the miraculous in the sense that ooze and awes the crowd. I'm not talking about the false religion of of Charismania today that pro proposes that all of these miracles are being done in the name of Jesus. I believe Jesus does miracles. I just don't believe these miracle workers do miracles. Amen. I believe the Lord does anything. He can do anything he wants to do. Our Lord's such a Lord that if He wants to raise the dead or heal the sick or do whatever, he can do that But I'll tell you, he doesn't do it for the profit of a man or a ministry. He does it for his own great glory and honor. But I see the need for power in our lives. Friend, listen, the gospel is God's dynamite. And if you've ever been around dynamites, you know it's got power. If you describe dynamite in one word, you could use the word power. If you've ever set off dynamite or ever been around that sort of thing, man, you know that there's power in that. It doesn't look like a very impressive thing. It's not often in very large packages or quantities, but but I'll tell you there's power there We were down in the southern part of the state of uh North Carolina. I was working in Statesville, and we were clearing a piece of ground, a very large piece of ground, to put up at that time the largest uh distribution center for Lowe 's, the uh supply store, home repair store. And there was a section of ground that was solid rock for just literally several thousand feet. And I happened to be on that job today, on that day to service some equipment. They said, come down, all the equipment shut down. We're going to be doing some explosive work around. And I'd never been around anything like that, and I I'd never witnessed it. And man, what a what a thrill that was to be able to is am I alone and just isn't it something to see something blow up? I'm sorry, but it just gives me a charge, man, when that the they were on the radio and they they they called for silence and they told everyone to go to their places we'd been told to go And on the radio, the foreman of the job was counting down, and and uh then all of a sudden I heard a man off in the distance firing the hole and then woo! And buddy, when that thing went off, it shook the ground, it shook the equipment on the ground, it shook the men standing on the ground, and it rained rocks for, it seemed like 10 minutes. Man, that was something else. And when they got done, he cleared, he cleared the radio and let us get back to work. I remember driving over there in my truck and looking at what once had been this large vein of rock And it was nothing but a gravel pile. And those big machines went in, trackos and such, and they were just digging it out, loading it in the trucks and hauling it off. You know why? Because there's power in dynamite And I don't care if it's rock or steel or whatever it may be, that power can overcome. That power has the ability to break it down. And I want you to know something, that there is a power, and that is the power of God that can overcome, that can break down, that can get through. that can change and transform whatever it is that may be in its way, God is a God of power. Now you and I don't need to sit here tonight and feel sorry for ourselves and think that there's just no way to get anything done. I've got news for you. Our God is a God of power. And we need to be saying, like Elisha of old, where is the God of Elijah? Where is the Lord God of Elijah? Where is that mighty power that we want to be demonstrated in his life Now sitting among us are those that have seen God do some things, and I think that's a great privilege to be able to say we've watched the Lord work in people's lives. Some of you, every time you look in the mirror, you see a demonstration of the power of God. You are an example of what God can do when he gets hold of an old sinner's heart. You live as a testimony that God saved sinners. Some of you, I know many of your testimonies. And I could stand here, and I'm not going to do that, but I could stand here and tell of the change he made, whether you were sitting in your living room and repented of your sin or whether you were driving down the road or wherever it was that you got right with God and the difference that He made in your life And the person he's made you today is all glory to the God of great power. A God who stepped into your world and changed everything around and made all the difference Aren't you glad he's able to do that? Boy, I praise God that he's a God of power. And yet, listen, oftentimes we get stuck looking back there Instead of looking right now and down forward and realizing that you know what? God hadn't changed. Elisha is at a new day. He's at a new crossroads. He's at a new place. Elijah is gone. Is the power of God gone? Elijah is no more. Is God going to work no more? Elijah doesn't walk the earth any longer. He's been taken up in that great chariot to heaven. So is there hope today? Is there hope? Is there a reason to press on? Can God do the things he once did? And what a test it was when Elisha comes to the Jordan River and says, where is, and I don't believe this is a faithless question. I'm going to talk about it in a minute. I don't believe this was a mocking question. I believe this was a purposeful question when he said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And when he s smote the waters, when he hit the waters with that mantle, he recognized That although Elijah's gone, God is not. And you and I need to realize some things tonight. There's a lot of things gone. You know there's some things gone that'll never come back to this country, I fear. I believe there's a lot of freedoms we've lost. There's a lot of things that we'll never see again in in our time, in our day, unless God works a miracle in that. And He can, but I I believe that there's some things that are gone that'll never be resurrected again. There's some things that we've lost, but I'll tell you one thing we have not lost. We have not lost him. We haven't lost the Lord He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. And God is just as able today as he was back then. He's still the Lord God of Elijah. And I'll tell you something we can say now. We can say he's the Lord God of Elisha as well because he's witnessed his power in his life. Well, what is in this question? Number one, let me say this quickly. It is a fair question. It's a fair question Considering that he is the Lord. Notice, he says, where is the Lord God of Elijah? When you consider the Lord's character, that what the Lord is, he always is. There's no changing. Now, this would be an unfair question if the Lord was given to change. But you see, he's asking a question based on the character that he's aware of, and he knows this: that the Lord doesn't change. So as he stands before this unparted water, he knows the Lord hadn't changed. He knows that the God of Elijah is the God of Elisha, and he's able to part the waters like he did previously because he does not change. Church, I'm going to tell you there's a lot of stuff changed, but God has not. Our Lord hadn't changed, and we need to remember that. Our world has changed, our time has changed, the opportunities have changed, people's hearts have changed, all sorts of things have changed, but the Lord remains the same. And I'm here to tell you we need to remember this question is fair in light of the character of our great God. Not only the character, but also it's fair in light of the concerns. He's concerned, Lord, are you going to work? Are you going to work like you did? Are you are are you going to I don't believe he's questioned the ability of God, but perhaps the willingness of God Perhaps he understood God could help Elijah, but maybe he was just concerned, could he help me? Will he help me like he helped Elijah? And aren't you glad to know this? Our God's no respecter of persons It's not a man's name that makes a difference. It's the one he knows that makes all the difference. You know, a lot of times, and I I I don't like this. I I think it's hurt Christianity But uh we've created kind of a superstar religion among our churches. And we've got big names and little names and no names and unknown names and all that. And I'm just, I'm telling you, there's only one name we ought to really get concerned about, and that's the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen, he's no respecter of persons God can use anybody to do anything he wants to do anytime, anywhere, because he's God. And he often chooses, according to 1 Corinthians, the base, the weak, the things that are not to do the things, my friend, that confound the mighty. God's not looking for great skill or ability. He's just looking for somebody that will believe he's still God and that he's able to do what he always could do. It's a fair question in light of this concern. But I believe it's also a fair question in light of continuation. You see, Elijah was done. His race was run. But God still had a work to do. Understand this. The work of God depends on no man. No one. I had a man tell me one time many years ago, he said, if I leave this church, it'll fall. Well, he shortly left. And you know what? Instead of falling, it flourished. And and I didn't gloat in it, but I was kind of glad God just said, let me show you something, big boy. Let me just show you how important you are. And you know, the reality is that God's work doesn't rest squarely on the shoulders of his workmen. It's in his hand. He's the Lord. It's his power. He's the one that is doing the work. And you and I need to remember that as far as continuation is concerned This is a fair question. Elijah's now in heaven, and Elisha says, Lord, there's a work to do. Where's your power? I need your power. And the Lord demonstrates his power because his work will carry on. Number two, I believe it's a faith question. A faith question. Have you ever had to encourage yourself in the Lord? I believe Elijah's doing that here. Elisha's doing that here. Where is the Lord God of Elijah? I don't believe he's asking it in a mocking way or in a meaningless way, but he very purposefully is saying, where is the Lord God of Elijah? It is a faith question. He's asking this in such a way not to doubtfully accuse, but he knows that the answer is in the Lord God of Elijah. He's saying, where is the Lord God of Elijah? Because Lord God of Elijah, you're the answer right now. You're what we need. You're the power that we need. You're the person that we need. It is you that we need to see work. Church family, can I remind you tonight that what we need this hour is the Lord to work? We need to see the hand of God. Look, friend, I think we've cheapened our Christianity to the point of psychological manipulation. And it's become a salesman, a work of salesmanship. It's become uh uh uh who who can up another, who can be the uh you know, best this one or that one, and and we're mere we're just mere uh debaters rather than disciples And my friend, listen, it's not about arguing and convincing. It's about the power of God converting and transforming people's lives. Now you can talk somebody down an aisle and into a prayer, but it takes God Almighty in heaven to take that sinner and make them a saint. It takes the mighty power of God to wash a dirty man's heart clean. And you don't have it and I don't have it, but God sure does. And I believe what he's saying here is a faith question. He knows God's the answer. He also knows He also knows that God is able. He's witnessed this. He's witnessed God part the water. He's witnessed the power of God at work in Elijah's life And he knows that God's able, and he's crying out, Oh God, I know that you've done this. Would you do it again? It is a faith question. And I believe he also, as a faith question, understands that God's always the same. God's always the same. If you need a river parted, he can part it. If you need an ocean dried up, he can dry it up. He he he just can. You say, well, I've never seen it in my lifetime. Well, you've never needed it. You've obviously never needed it, or you have witnessed it. But I'll tell you what you have witnessed and what you have needed, you have watched the Lord work. You've watched the Lord work. And so let me remind you that it is a faith question. He is always the same. Then thirdly, notice it's a futuristic question. See, Elisha is now looking forward. And I love this because listen, this was a crossroads, not just for Elisha, but this was a crossroads for Israel. He's looking ahead. Do you know Elisha could have spent the rest of his ministry looking back at what Elijah did and missed out on what God could do? There's a real danger here. Marinatha Baptist Church, we have a history. We have a heritage. We give God the glory. We're thankful for all that he's done, but can I serve you notice what he has done is not sufficient for now? We need to see him work today. We need his power now. Our families need God to do a work now. Listen, this was a futuristic question. He's saying, where is the Lord God? I'm grateful for all, Lord, that you did for Elijah. I'm grateful for all that you accomplished back then. Look, I love to read probably two uh thirds of my uh the bottom half of my shelves of my my bookshelf there uh there in my office uh is about people's lives and biographies and autobiographies of people that God has used. I love to read those. I I try to spend the winter months reading about uh things God did in people's lives. Uh the Oh, the uh sky pilots. I just finished this last winter, and it was about those men that went up into the north country and reached those loggers in these logging camps. And boy, those men lived hard and they they they lived with those loggers and many of them worked alongside of them and then preached Jesus to them and tried to get 'em saved. And boy, the tales that come out of there where whole camps of men were nothing but full of sin and degradation. And after these sky pilots they called them moved out of there, there was churches left behind and witnesses left behind. And godly men left behind and and uh w hard workers still cutting wood and doing all that, but they were singing praises instead of uh shouting curses and so on. And the Lord had changed them. I love to read about how God used to do things like that. I love to read about how God's worked on mission fields around the world. My favorite study is that of revivals of old. I love to read about the Welsh Revival and the great 1859 Revival in Scotland. that that spread throughout that part of the world, the revivals that went across England and other places. It thrills me. The the the revivals that swept Nova Scotia and across Canada and down into this part of the world, the Great Awakening, and so on. But all those things do is cause me to look back at what God did. I'm telling you we need to turn our eyes another direction and realize that what God did, he can do again. And what God can do or what God has done, he can do, because he's not the God of yesterday, he's the God of this day. This is a futuristic question. He's looking forward. And I believe not only is he looking forward, but he's also committed to following. He 's saying, Lord, just like Elijah followed you, I'm following you. You'll notice he did the same thing Elijah did. Elisha wrapped up the mantle just like Elijah did. He hit the waters hither-thither. And God parted them. You know why? Because he was going to follow the Lord just like Elijah. I'm going to tell you something. There's a great movement in our day to discredit and destroy all that God has done in the past. To question it. To criticize it. To to look at men and say, they shouldn't have done this and they shouldn't have done that. But I'm going to tell you something when And I don't know that we're even qualified then, but when God does something with some of us like He's did with them, then maybe we can start using that kind of language. But until that time, I think we ought to be thankful for what God has done and just keep walking in those faithful footsteps of those who followed the Lord. Many of these dear men here, you watch them, he's following now. He's going to go on the same path. Elisha is not Elijah, but he's going to walk in the way of Elijah. And I believe it's a futuristic question because it understands this. God will not fail. He'll not fail. He can't fail. He's God. He's not going to fail. He didn't fail Elijah. He's not going to fail Elisha One thing I love about being around older Christians is hearing them tell the great things God's done in their life. And without fail, it always reminds me that God is so faithful. That you can trust him in dark times, good times, bad times, up times, down times. It don't matter what the times are, God is faithful and he does not fail. I think we need more of that. Let me put a plug in here for something. Some of us younger Christians need to make a conscious effort to be around older ones. I'm afraid we've so structured our churches that the young ones sit and look in sus at in suspicion at the old ones, and the old ones look at disdain at the young ones because they don't know each other. And there needs to be some some coming together. My dad used to tell me, he said, when you're around old people, keep your mouth shut. He said, if they ain't got no sense, you'll learn what not to do, and if they do have sense, you'll learn what you ought to do. Learn something. God 's able. He's not failed. Listen, listen to some of these old saints tell how God took care of them through dark times. You live long enough, you'll go through some rough patch. You live long enough, there'll be some hard places to tread. There'll be some uh steps to take in the dark night. There'll be some difficulties you've got to endure, but you know what you'll find? Standing somewhere in the shadows, there's the Lord Jesus He's been faithful. He's never failed. He doesn't abandon his own. And listen, don't that encourage your heart? And I believe as Elijah, or excuse me, Elisha asks this question, he remembers. I wonder if Elijah ever took Elisha and said, you know when I called you to follow me, I was coming out of the wilderness. I was up there on the mountain and I was in a cave and I wanted to die. In fact, I asked God to kill me and he wouldn't answer. But yet he told me to get up and go back, anoint the king, and to anoint you as prophet in my stead, and uh he recommissioned me. And set me back on my tra on my feet. And you know what? Even though I was ready to give up, God wasn't ready to give up. I was ready to quit, but God wouldn't quit. He said, I was ready to throw up the towel and say I'm done, but God wasn't done, and he brought you to me, and let me encourage you. God didn't fail me in the wilderness, and Elisha, he won't fail you either. I believe it's a futuristic question. And let me close with this. I believe it was a fruitful question. I believe it's a fruitful question right now. I believe it benefited Elisha to ask it, and I believe it'll benefit us if we'll ask it. I think sometimes we just get in the motion and you know you can you can die on the vine just going through motions You can go to church and go to church and go to church and go to church and go to church and go to church until you don't have no power and you don't even know you don't have power and You're just still going through you're like old Samson who had his uh hair cut and had lost his power and didn't even know it and he went out and shook himself. You know why? Because he had been used to going and putting his head in her lap And trying to shake off whatever it was, but this time he couldn't shake off because he had lost the power of God. He did not know that the power of God had departed from him. And I think we can get in a rut like that and we'll just become fruitless. But every once in a while we ought to put the brakes on and say, now Lord, where is the Lord God of Elijah? It's a fruitful question because of the recognition. You know what you recognize when you ask that question? God, I can't do this without you. And I recognize it. I recognize if you don't help me, I recognize if you don't help me, there's no way I can do it. Lord, if your power ain't on me, listen, you say, well, I'm not called to preach. I don't need God's power. I'm going to tell you something. When you live every day, you need God's power You mothers raising your children, you need God's power. You serve the Lord, you need God's power. We're talking about driving around here. You drive down 95, you need God's power. Amen. I'm not joking, man. You lose your testimony in a heartbeat. Some of you know what I'm talking about. I don't know why all the idiots choose that one road when I get on it all at the same time. I think somebody sends out a text and says, all idiots get on 95 because Pastor Grooves is going to be driving. Does anybody else feel like that? You know what you need? You need the power of God. I need the power of God. Look, the power of God don't only enable me, it constrains me And oftentimes restrains me. And helps me do what I should to please him. Look, you and I need God's power every day I'm talking about a recognition, a recognition that God, I need your power. Not only is it a recognition, but this question, this fruitful question, causes me to understand where my reliance should be. Lord, I'm relying on you. You know how easy it would have been for Elisha to say, Well, I've been with the Elijah, so surely some of that rubbed off on me. Surely, surely God will do that for me. But no, you know what he was saying? He was saying, Now God I'm trusting you. The the God of Elijah, you gotta be my God. And you know there comes a place, maybe you're younger here, there comes a place, you've seen God do things for your mama and your daddy, but there comes a place where you need God to do some things for you. There needs to be some prayers you pray that get answered. There's some prayers. Look, there was a fella, a pastor stayed, and I'll be careful with this because I know we're on air, but there's a pastor who stayed in our our dorms down there And uh spent some time and his children were praying for something. We didn't know about it. I heard of a situation. I came to the men of the church. I said, Men, look. This is a situation. Can we do something just to bless this family before they leave? The men said, Whatever. And I I I forget who it was. One of the men took something down there, gave it to this pastor. And before he left, he came in my office with tears in his eyes. And he said, Preacher, that may not have been much to you, but I want to tell you something. My children have been praying for this, and he mentioned what it was. He said, we specifically said, now Lord, I want you to do something for our children so they'll know you're real. And he said those kids were praying for this particular thing. And he said what the church did met the need for that particular thing. And he said, we got on our knees together in that dorm and we thank God for meeting that need And those children said, you know what, Dad, God is real. God has power. And listen, you and I, we need to know that, that God has power. We need our children need to know that they can rely on the Lord. They need to know that they can lean their head on the a strong arm of God and find support and strength to carry on. I'll tell you we're living in a dark hour. The devil seems to be coming up to ascendancy, and I believe he is according to the plan of God, and there's darkness all around us. And our babies are facing pressure and they're facing darkness and hell and all sorts of battles that you never dreamed of and some of us of adults never had to encounter. And yet they need to know that the same God that saw their grandma, their grandpa through, their mom, their dad through is the same God that can see them through, because the times don't trouble him. He's the God of the times. He's the ancient of days. He's God Almighty. And he can help those children through. These little children, man, I'll tell you, live in a world did you ever think you'd have to have armed guards at school and all sorts of metal detectors everywhere you go? I mean you can't go to the hospital around here without going through the metal detector. And you gotta take your pocket knife, you know. I there's some men I guess still carry pocket knives. My I I'm of my dad's uh opinion. If my breeches are on, I got my pocket and my knife in my pocket. I mean that's just starting to show you better not do that. But if if you got your if he said look, I'd ask him, I'd say, Dad you got your knife? He'd say, That's foolish. I have my britches on. If I got my britches on, I got my knife. And then he'd hand it to me. But look, everywhere you go, we live in a society, man, that's sick. You can't walk down the street without seeing some kind of filth or garbage, and man, our kids are exposed to that. But yet aren't you glad God has power to bring them through? Our children don't have to be given over to the devil and the world. God can do something in their lives like he did in yours. The times aren't so dark that God's uh unable or incapable. Look, God can keep them just like He's kept you. And if it gets worse, which it will according to the Bible, evil men will wax worse and worse. You can rest assured God will remain the same and those little kids can come through with great victory because we serve a great God. It's a question, a fruitful question because of our reliance. And then let me say this, it's a fruitful question because of the results. God parted the water. God demonstrated his power. And church, I want you to know something. God can still do that today God can save that one that you think is unsavable? That heart that seems impenetrable? That individual that seems unreachable, don't give up on him. Don't give up on him. There's been many a bleak hour you've thought, no way. No way. I won't embarrass them, but this precious couple with us from Nova Scotia, God's done some things in their lives. If they could testify tonight, I believe they'd tell you God did some things in their lives. But there's been moments. There's been moments in their lives you wonder. Perhaps they have wondered. There have been moments you said, could it be? We met we were talking about uh I think the first time we met Wesley, he was a teenager, and we'd just come to Nova Scotia and a group of teenagers came up from North Carolina and we had Bible school. And we get in the motel and we're counting everybody and we got an extra kid. That extra kid's wes. We went on a trip over to Prince Edward Island, we're counting the kids, getting ready to do some things. We got that kid again. He he he he just seemed to show up everywhere. We say, you got a homeboy? I mean where do you live? Your parents know, oh yeah, they don't care, they're fine Whatever. Man, he was just everywhere. And then it seemed like he disappeared. And then God worked in his life, his dear wife's life. But there are times. There are times you look, you say, that situation will never be resolved. That person's beyond reach. There's no hope for them. Let me say this tonight. So long as God is God, there's hope. So long as He is the God of power, my friend, there's no sinner so lost, no person so backslid. No individual that is so much in sin that the mighty arm of God can't reach in and save them and change their life. He's a God of power. He's a God of power. There's nobody so religious. You know there's a crowd today. It breaks and burdens my heart. They're religious as the day is long, but they're lost. They're lost as a ball in high weeds They don't know God, wouldn't know God if they met him face to face. They need to be saved. And you think how in the world could they ever get saved? Some of you sitting here would say he saved a religious sinner like me. He saved me, even I as a church member, he saved me out of my situation. Look, God can because God is a God of power. It's a fruitful question because of the results. I just want to say this: the God who did is the God who can. The God who was is the God who is. There's no need for us to sit here tonight and mournfully view the past. We need to step up in the present and say, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? God, you're God. Please work. God, you're able. Please help. Lord, I've got a lost brother or got a lost sister. I I I I got family that I care about God, you're gonna have to do something in their heart. And Lord, I'm gonna keep bothering you here at the throne of grace until you do. Because Lord, I know you're a God of power, and you can arrest them on that road to re of rebellion that they're walking down. God, please Some of us need to pray, oh God, would you do a work in our community again? I'm going to tell you, there are places around the world that are going to have a lot to answer for, and I think we live in one of them. There are places around the world where God's done some great things, but I'm telling you, my friend, the great things God did yesterday is not going to do for today. There are people that need the Lord now. There are people, neighbors, and folks up and down these streets and all over this community. They need Christ. They need to be saved. They need the power of God working in their lives. And my friend, listen, God wants to use us and help us, and we need to cry out to him, this isn't about getting the right program, this isn't about even getting the right preacher, this isn't about getting the polished advertisement, this is about the power of God. Coming back on his people and coming back on his church and helping us do what only God can do and doing through us what only he can accomplish. Look, I believe God can still turn this place upside down and set it in order. God can do a mighty work again. Let's not go home resting on our laurels saying, oh, what great things God has done. Let's get hungry to see God do it again. Let's get an appetite that says, Lord, I'm not content. with just what I've seen in the past. I want to see something now. I want this present hour to be an hour of power. I want to see you help again, Lord, the church and the people and the center and see you change lives. Where is the Lord God of Elijah? May we step up and say, God, I'm going to trust you and see you work in my life. And in the lives of others around me. Oh, friend, that his power might be on us individually, collectively. And that we might see God where, look , every one of us here are where we are on purpose You're working where you work on purpose. You're rubbing shoulders who you rub shoulders with on purpose. It may it listen, God's got you there. Point them to Him. That's that's the only reason you're there. Point them to him. Point them to him. Point them to him. And and look, you come across them, they may be aggravating, they may be difficult They may be ornery and a whole lot of other ways of describ describing them, but but you're there to point them to him. You're there to point them to him. That's the only reason you're there. You're there to point them to him. And whatever it is you do, wherever it is you go, make sure you're faithful, pointing them to him. And doing so in the mighty power of God. Listen, when God's power is on you, your witness will be much sharper. It 'll make a difference. It's better to speak two words with God's power than it is to preach a whole sermon without it. Because it'll do the job. He will do the job. Oh, where is the Lord God Elijah? It's a question I want to ask. I'm asking myself. It's a question we need to ask ourselves tonight. Where is the Lord God of Elijah? Might be a good question to get Ms. Alder and ask. Might be a good question getting this alder and asked personally. Lord, I need your power in my life. I need your power. Would you stand with me? Where's my pianist? Let me get you to come and just play quickly. We'll not sing at this moment, but if our pianist will come and just be