I appreciate the special and I appreciate the choir singing this morning that beautiful song, Ten Thousand Hallelujah. You imagine what it must have been like to be in those shepherds' fields when they heard that wonderful announcement. That our Lord was born. And I want to deal with the purpose of his coming here this morning. So if you'll take your Bibles with me, please, and turn to John chapter number 17. John chapter number 17. I'd like to read verse 1 once more in your hearing. And if you're able, I would invite you, please, to stand with me as we honor the reading of God's Word. The Gospel of John, chapter number 17, and it is verse number one that we're reading. The Bible says these words spake Jesus. And lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come. Glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee. I'm interested in that statement. The hour is come. The hour is come. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would help us just now as we open your word. May we open our hearts, and I pray you'll do a work in our hearts. Help us to see the significance of this great hour. for which you were born. And Lord, I realize that at very best I can reach ears. It's going to take the Spirit of God to reach hearts. And we bow before you and we ask, O Lord, would you help us afresh? We'll give you the glory. Hide me behind the cross. Help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. For it's in his mighty and precious name we pray, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. I believe what we have here in John chapter number seventeen is the Lord's Prayer. He said, hold on, preacher. The Lord's prayer is our Father which art in heaven. Well, that's the model prayer. The Lord's prayer is here in John 17 prior to his crucifixion. And he prayed, and as he prayed, he was interested or concerned about the hour. He said, the hour is come. Remember at the beginning of his ministry in John chapter number 2, at the marriage in Cana of Galilee, And Mary came to him with a problem, and he said these words, mine hour is not yet come. But yet now in John chapter number 17 we read that mine hour is come. The hour is come. You see, this was an hour like no other hour, and I don't think we're speaking of a specific hour, a 60 minutes. But we're speaking of a focal point of time. The Lord Jesus is saying, Mine hour is come. What hour is this hour? It is the hour of the cross. We've been looking all months, really , at the manger and the birth of Christ. We've tried to emphasize his coming to this earth. And what started at the manger is going to culminate at the cross. For the Lord Jesus was born to this end. I think in our first message on the uh first Sunday in December, I talked about the painting and I I still do not know where that I saw this painting or or or who the artist was, but The painting just is burnt in my mind that the image of that manger with the little baby and that shadow of a cross that lay over it. My what a what a true thing that that was, because Jesus Christ was not born just for the sake of being born. He wasn't born just to be a baby that was celebrated. He was not born to just be a miracle worker, though he worked miracles. He was not born just to live his life as other men live their lives and be a great teacher, and he was the greatest teacher. He was not born just simply to walk and cause men to marvel. Friend, he was born to die on Calvary. He was born destined for the cross. Laying in his future would be what we sing about and what we glory in as Christians, what we rejoice in, the fact that Jesus Christ died for our sin. I want you to think about the hour. He said the hour has come. The hour has come. There's an intensity, there's a spotlight. In fact, there's more said about this hour than any other moment of time in the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. The life of Christ is depicted in the four Gospels and detailed in some measure. Not everything is written. The Bible says if everything was written that he did and said, the world couldn't contain the books. It makes me wonder what all did he do and what all did he say? Perhaps we'll get caught up when we get to heaven on what happened. But what he did want us to know, we have in detail in the Word of God. And he tells us very clearly here about his life, about his birth. But there is no other event in the life of the Lord Jesus detailed so minutely. And so abundantly as his death. It takes up a great part of the four gospels. So, what is this hour and what does it speak of? And that's what I want to try to answer this morning. I want you to notice, if you're making notes, that this hour speaks of a purpose. It speaks of a purpose. He says the hour is come. The life of the Lord Jesus was not just some random experiment. The life of the Lord Jesus was not some cosmic accident. Christ was born on purpose. He came on purpose. And I want you to see this morning the great purpose of the Lord. Listen to these words in Luke 19:10. The Bible says the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. There's his purpose. That's the purpose of this hour, to seek and to save that which was lost. You know, purpose statements are not popular anymore. Businesses have them. Individuals come up with them. This is our purpose statement. Churches post them and so on and so forth. But this is the purpose statement of the Lord Jesus. If you could summarize the whole reason for his existence and the whole reason for his coming, I believe you could summarize it in that short statement. That the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. And as one who was lost but now is found, I'm glad he did. I'm thankful that he came on purpose. This purpose was a purpose of sacrifice. Remember, John the Baptist announced it at his baptism. In John chapter 1 verse 29, John is baptizing there in the river Jordan, and he's seen Jesus approaching, and he said these words. He said, Behold! The Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. He wanted the attention of that gathered multitude, and not just the gathered multitude, but those that would read the pages of God's Word down through the ages, he wanted us to turn our attention on the Lamb of God. Now, friend, the lamb had one purpose in that culture. One purpose in that society. That lamb was to be a sacrifice. Lambs were raised to that end. They were raised so that they might be taken and offered up as an atonement for sin. They were raised and offered up, their blood was shed, their lives were taken. And they were placed on an altar and offered to God so that their sin might be covered for another year. When John said, I want you to look at the Lamb of God. Not the lamb that was raised to be put on the altar down at the temple, but the lamb that was to be hung on a cross and The land that was to be offered to God Himself, that lamb, and he was not going to only atone for sin, because that word means cover. He was literally going to take away sin. And thank God when the Lord Jesus died, He carried my sin far away. We sing about it in that old hymn. How he died on the cross of Calvary. And buried, he carried my sin far away. Rising, he justified freely forever. Thank God for the work and the purpose of the Lord Jesus. He was a sacrifice. Your sin and my sin said a sacrifice is required. My sin demands an answer. It demands a solution. How many of you know you can't put a band aid over sin no more than you can put a band-aid over cancer? You can't put a uh just a temporary fix. On something that needs an eternal solution. My sin has is crying for an answer. It cries for a solution And thank God when Jesus Christ came to this earth to seek and to save that which was lost, he became my solution. He is my solution. He is the answer. We sometimes get a little flack over a statement used on our station. Jesus is the answer to every question. We've had a few smart alecs who will write or call or email and say, Well he's not the answer to every question. What if I ask this and they ask some silly question? Well I've got news for you. He's the answer to every question that's really important. He's the answer to every question that really matters. And I'm talking about the question of my sin. What will I do with my sin? Everybody's got to answer that. Because we all, the Bible says, have sinned and come short of the glory of God. What are we to do with our sin? Oh, you say, I'll try to make up for it by being good. How many of you know you can't be good enough? My goodness, all of my goodness. The Bible calls that righteousness. All of my righteousness are as filthy rags. Never can measure up. I live a hundred lifetimes. I could never do enough to be good in the eyes of God because I've got a sin problem. And the only answer is the Lord Jesus. I can't join the right church or be a member of the right church. You say if I can just find the right church, that'll answer my sin problem. All you do is become a churchified sinner. Church-ified's the word You say, but I'll be baptized and I'll go through all of the rituals that are required of me by this particular denomination. And my friend, listen, you can do all of that And you'll still not find a solution for your sin. The hymn writer said it best. What can wash away my sin I believe he asked that question because he was interested in getting it washed away. What can wash away my sin? Friend, oftentimes we bear sin we're not aware of. Do you know that? You may ever say, you got something on you. I was doing something yesterday and I I I got soot and tar all over my face. And I didn't know it. I was just walking around like I was normal As if. And my wife said, Go wash your face. And I said, What's wrong with it? She said, Well, go look in the mirror and you'll see. And I couldn't believe I didn't realize I'd I mean I looked like I put my head in a tar bucket. I was just covered all over it. How did I do that? See, I had a I had a problem I wasn't aware of And my friend, there are many people, maybe listening to this preacher this morning, you've got a problem you're not aware of. That problem 's called sin. And listen, the only answer for it is you can't wash it away in a bath, but you can wash it away in the blood of Christ. Thank God for the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ, who made a way for you and I to be saved. The purpose, His purpose was a purpose of sacrifice. But not only that, His purpose was a purpose of suffering. Luke 22, 42 says, Father, this is Jesus now praying, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. I don't know if you've ever thought about this. Jesus Christ was omniscient as a man. He knew all. He was God. He looked down through the the time that was before him, and he could see the cross looming in the future. He could see the suffering that was awaiting him. And my Bible says that he suffered as no man's ever suffered. The Bible says that he was so marred that his very appearance did not even bear the resemblance of a man. That's how bad he was. How bad he suffered, rather. That's how bad that and how how how terrible the cross And sometimes we see paintings of it and we think, you know, what a beautiful scene it was. I'm here to tell you it was a horrible scene The sufferings of the Lord Jesus. In fact, it was so horrible that the very sun refused to shine. The Bible says darkness covered the face of the earth. Such a such a horrible thing was happening as God forsook God and as God became sin as Upon him the sufferings for sin was poured out. The wrath of God. What cup is he talking about? He's talking about the wrath of God, the cup of God's wrath that he would drink to the bitter end. It was being poured out there on Calvary's Hill. What suffering. That was what he came for. He came to suffer. On the old rugged cross. Can I say to you, the salvation of God is free, but it's not cheap. It's a free thing. I can't do anything but come to God for mercy. And when I cast my helpless soul at the feet of the mighty God, there's a salvation That will lift me up where I can't lift myself. It's free. It's a free salvation. It's so free that he says, Whosoever will may come. Let him that is a thirst come. That's how free it is. But it's never cheap. How many of you know in this world you get what you pay for? I don't know if the dollar store sells tools, but if they do you get dollar store tools. You get what you pay for, right? Jeff, if you go to the dollar store and buy a new set of tools, I I'm sure you're gonna go by the end of the week and buy another set. Because you get what you pay for. Here is one instance where that is not true, because you and I pay nothing for the gift of eternal life, but we take it freely from the hand of the Lord. But oh what a cost it came. What a cost that is attached. What a price tag is tied to this great salvation, this so great salvation. Christ came on purpose to suffer, and then I believe he also came with a purpose to be slain. To be slain. There's a verse in Revelation chapter 13, verse 8. It says he was the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world. Imagine that, slain from the foundation of the world. You say, preacher, but he didn't die until 2,000 years ago. Well, in the eyes of God, before he ever laid the mud seals of the earth, and formed and made the earth upon which we live, and made man and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, before that was ever accomplished. He was the lamb slain. He was the provision for man's sin. Hey, Jesus is not plan B God didn't look out of heaven and say, Well, I didn't see Adam and Eve doing that. God didn't say, I I I I sure didn't see it. We better come up with something. Oh no. In the mind and heart of God before there ever was man, there was a lamb slain before the foundation of the world I don't know about you, but I call that infinite love. That He would provide a solution before the problem ever arose. He made a way. See, he came on purpose. This hour, this hour, this was no random hour. This was no no no hour of mistakes and accidents. Or this was not an hour of martyrdom. Jesus was coming on purpose. He came for this purpose. To be a sacrifice and to suffer and to be slain. Number two, let me quickly say it was an hour. That brought forth a petition. See, the Lord prayed in this hour. You'll notice the Bible says, here's what he prayed: glorify thy son. That thy son also may glorify thee. He had a petition, a burden, a prayer in his heart. Lord, I want to glorify you. I want God to be glorified in all of this. I believe that's what he puts in the heart of those that are saved to glorify God It was the concern of the Son of God. That was the concern of the hour. Jesus was concerned that the Father be glorified in this hour. That the Father be exalted and magnified. It was not only the concern of the hour, but it culminated. The glory of God culminates at the cross. Do you know Isaiah 53 says something strange? It says it pleased the Lord to bruise him. Isn't that strange language? It pleased the Lord. My dad used to say something I didn't understand or believe. How many of you experience that? Your parents say things you're like. I don't think you'd lie to me, but I don't believe it. Before I was disciplined, my father would say these words, This will hurt me more than it hurts you. I didn't believe it. I felt like saying if you were on the end to what I'm about to get, you would change your tune, Dad. And when I got a little older, I didn't get much smarter. And I made a comment on one occasion that I didn't quite think that was true. Because I said, You're not the one on the end of this discipline. And he said, You'll see one day. That's all he said, you'll see one day. And then he carried on. Well, I learned. I learned. There's no pleasure. Please understand what I'm about to say. There's no pleasure in discipline. You're a sick individual if there's pleasure in this one. There's no pleasure. There ought to be, you know why? Because there's love. Where there's love, there's grief. And I want you to see something. The Bible says it pleased the Lord. Why? This all was going to glorify God. The death of the Lord Jesus was going to glorify God. And can I say it in this manner? The greatest act of glorifying God is seen on Calvary's heel. That's why we still sing about it. That's why we preach about it. That's why we rejoice in it. We are those that have no confidence in the flesh, but we rejoice in Christ Jesus. What is it about him we rejoice in? He died for my sin. There's glory brought to God. And then thirdly, this this petition For the glory of God was the concern of the hour, and it culminated at the cross, and it leads to the conversion of souls. Which I believe is that next step, that next level of bringing glory to God. Ephesians 3 21 speaks about Glory, bringing glory to God in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages. Why does the church bring glory to God? Because we're who we are? Absolutely not. Not the fact that we're imperfect individuals. Somebody said, I'm going to find a perfect church and join it. And my counsel is, run. Because you're going to ruin it. You'll ruin it. There's no such thing as a perfect church. There's no such thing as a perfect pastor. There's no such thing as perfect people. Now some of you have polished your halo right pretty here this morning, but the reality is there are no perfect people. But thank God there is a perfect Savior and a perfect salvation. And hear me please, hear me please, it brings glory to God when He saves a sinner and makes them a saint. And changes their lives and sets them in the body of Christ. That brings glory to God The Moravian movement is, I guess, the best thing to call it, took the gospel around the world for some 300 years. The Moravians were sacrificial people and people that were willing to lay their lives down to preach the gospel in far-flung places of the earth. Early on, two young men from Germany gave themselves to be missionaries in St. Thomas and St. Croix Islands in the then British West Indies. And these two men wanted to go there. They said God called us there. But there was a problem. Only slaves lived on these islands. You could not go if you were an outsider. They came up with a solution, one that was a reflection of the heart they had for lost people. They sold themselves to a slave owner. And they gave themselves and said, We'll be slaves so that we might preach the gospel. You imagine? Friend, sometimes we won't inconvenience ourselves with a conversation or a gospel tract. But they sold themselves. And it is said that when they left, I think it was 1732 when they sailed. When these men left, they gathered, their families and loved ones gathered around the dock, and these men said, May the lamb that was slain Receive the reward of his suffering. That was their cry. May the lamb that was slain receive the reward of his suffering. As they set sail and said goodbye, because they were not going to stay a term. They were going to lay down their lives. They would never return, and they'd never return. But they went to take the gospel and their concern, you know what their concern was? God be glorified. God be glorified. And the concern in the in this hour, the concern I'm talking about the cross, the concern of the hour is that God would be glorified. Friend, the cross is not some spectacle to behold with mere mere human curiosity. It's not something to look at with just mere speculation. It's something that ought to bring us to our knees in adoration that one would love me enough to die in my place, that he would carry my sin. and take it away for all of eternity by the shedding of his precious blood. Oh, what a savior! The cross should not elicit mere curiosity, it should stir deep devotion. Make me cry with the hymn writer and say I'll cling to the old rugged cross till my trophies at last I lay down. It brought forth a petition. Let me close by saying this the cross, this hour, this hour Speaks of a purpose, and this hour brought forth a petition. And this hour was a demonstration of power. Look what it says, verse 2. As thou hast given him power, John 17, 2. As thou hast given him power over all flesh. that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God in Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent. Here's power. You say, preacher, he looks awful weak hanging there. It's one of those paradoxes of Christianity. You and I as Christians are quite strange creatures. We're strong when we're weak. We're full when we're empty. We get found when we get lost. Paradoxes And here's another one. Jesus demonstrated power and weakness. Here he hangs. The world mocks him. The soldiers scoff at him. The crowd gathered hates him. Save a little handful of devoted ones And yet, what power? He had power in his person. You know what he said in John chapter 10? He said, No man takes my life from me. I have power to lay it down and to take it up again. That's the power he had. Don't think for a minute. I remember a family member who got saved late in life. We were talking about the crucifixion and and in his understanding he said, Man, if I was there, I'd have punched that Roman soldier right in the mouth. And that was his personality, he would have, if if they hadn't lopped his fingers or a hand off. He said, I can't believe that that was done to my Lord. I said, hold on a minute. Nothing was done to our Lord. It was permitted by our Lord. Those Roman soldiers had no power to thrust him through with nails and stab him with the spear and hang him on a cross, had he not permitted it. He laid down his life. Thank God he said I took it up again too. He rose. That's the power. That's the power in his person. But I want you to notice there's also the power of pardon. Look what he says again. He says, Thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. The power of pardon. Who pardons men? The Lord Jesus In Acts 10. 43, the Bible says that it's through his name the remission of sins is preached. Folks, with all due respect, the Pope can't pardon a man. Can't pardon a soul. No preacher can pardon a soul. No individual can pronounce I took part in a funeral of a dear man who, I believe in his last days, believed on the Lord Jesus. And yet his family and and he previously had been uh deeply devoted uh to Roman Catholicism. And I sat there and I listened. They asked me to take part at the end. And I sat there and listened at all of these things that were said that simply made him a prisoner and his family prisoners. So that they would feel compelled to pay him out of purgatory or do something to get him out. As if pardon was bound up In a religious institution. I've got news for you. There's only one who can pardon sin. His name is Jesus Christ. And friend, I I don't care where you are or who you are or what you've done or where you've been, you can find pardon in the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible's cry is, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Philippian jailer. I don't know how much he knew, but he knew enough to say, what must I do to be saved? And that's if you know that, you know enough. And the message was believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. And listen, God pardoned him. The vilest offender who truly believes that moment from Jesus pardon receives. What a savior is the Lord Jesus Christ. A demonstration of power. He pardons. He pardons. By the way, he was saving souls. As he was paying the debt on the cross. Remember the thief? Hanging with him. Both men started out against the Lord. If you're the Son of God, get us down. Save yourself and us. And the Bible says they cast insults. In other words, they were throwing out insults. Both of these men. Somewhere in those moments of death, that one thief said, He's the Lord. And as the Lord, I need him. And so he simply requested, When thou comest into thy kingdom, Lord, remember me. That wasn't a theologically deep prayer, but it got the job done. And friend, can I say to you, it's not bound up in the words you speak to him when you come to him. It's the fact you come to him. And cry out to him. All he did is plead for mercy. Remember me, Lord. I'm dying a guilty thief. He he he confessed his guilt to the other thief when he he said, you know, we're dying because we deserve it. We did something. We earned this punishment. We deserve it. He's done nothing wrong. And as they hung there, that man just simply said, Have mercy. Have mercy. And our precious Lord said, Today, today shalt thou be with me in paradise. What a savior. What I'm trying to say is there's pardon in in him. And only in him. And friend, if you've never been saved today, maybe it is you're trusting your religion, maybe you're trusting things that you're attempting to do. I never take for granted that everybody who comes to church knows the Lord. There are many Baptists that are going to be surprised when they die one day and end up in hell. Because they were good Baptists, but they've never been born again. You can be, you can fit into your system, you can fit into your peers among your peers, you can go along with all of the things that are taught and said and done But yet this new birth I'm speaking of is a work of God. It's a miracle of grace. It's salvation that comes from the Lord. And my friend, listen, if you've never been saved, you will not find pardon in all of your religious activities. You'll only find pardon When you come as a helpless, hopeless sinner and cast yourself at the feet of Jesus and look to him for mercy, and there you'll find it. There you'll find it. And then he speaks here of a possession. I close with these words, this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, in Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. See, salvation's never about a plan. We like to reduce things to lists. Oh, there are lists in the Bible and um I'm thinking when we travel, my wife makes a list and I I aggravate her a little bit about that list, and she says, well, if it's not on the list, it's not going. And sometimes I'll say, Am I on that list? I've been very close to being scratched off a few times of her list. I hope never, but anyway. There's no list I can give you. One, two, three, four. But there is a person I can point you to. Because salvation's not a plan and salvation's not a prayer. You say, but preacher, I I I pray, I pray a prayer. Can I say to you, my friend, be careful of making idols out of things. that are not found in the Word of God. You can trust a prayer and miss the person. My prayers don't save me. My precious and mighty Savior saves me. My hope is not built upon the prayer I prayed, it's on the person to whom I prayed. The Lord Jesus Christ, He's a possession. Do you have Him? If you have Him, you have eternal life. Do you have Him? Have you by faith received him? As many as received him to them gave you power to become the sons of God. So many people say, well, I'd be a Christian, but I sure I know I can't live it. Well get in line with the rest of us, the honest ones anyway, will tell you they can't live it either. Salvation's not bound up in your performance. Salvation is him, the person of the Lord Jesus. I'll tell you what, he moves in, you'll live it. He moves in, he'll make a new creature out of you. He takes up residence in your little house. It'll change everything in order. Do you have him? This hour was so important to our Lord, he said, I want you to never forget it. So when Jesus got ready to die, he gave us an ordinance. And that ordinance is the Lord's table. We're coming to that here in just a moment. And in that ordinance, we are instructed to show forth the Lord's death till he come. He said, It's so significant that I want you to never forget that you're bought with the price, that your sin has been paid for by another. That you and I are debtors to the grace of God and the work of Jesus Christ on the cross. He said, I want you to remember that And so in doing that this morning, I must read the Word of God. The Bible says this In 1 Corinthians 11, 26, for as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he come. Wherefore, whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world. Wherefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, or to come to the Lord's table, tarry one for another. To be faithful to my Bible and my Lord, I must remind you that the Lord's table is for a believer. Someone who's been born again and saved by the grace of God. The Bible tells us that as we do so, we're remembering And again, rem know this. This is a memorial. This is a reminder of what the Lord has done for us. There's no salvation in the juice and the bread. There's no salvation in a ceremony or ritual. We're just remembering. God's given us a tangible reminder in saying, I want you to remember this. Don't forget it. Don't forget it. I want you to remember that I died. I gave my body and it was broken. And I gave my blood and it was shed. Don't forget that. It's the bedrock foundation of Christianity and salvation, the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus. Don't forget it. And so, as we come to the table, I urge you, my dear friend, know this: you must be born again. And then Paul urged these dear believers that they be right with God and they be right with each other. And here's what the Bible says: let a man examine himself. We're not the police. I'm not spiritual policemen. You examine yourself and then take. And then take as you're prepared. We're going to have, Brother Dow, you come, we're going to have an altar of invitation. And if you're here today and you're not saved, well, I've got good news for you. The Lord will save you today. And you can simply cry out to the Lord wherever you are and ask him to save you. You can come to this old-fashioned altar and call on the Lord and be saved. You can bow by your uh by your sofa, you can bow by your chair, you can stop on the side of the road. Wherever you are, you can call on the Lord and be saved Salvation is not in a place. I said it's not in a prayer and it's not in a plan. And it's not in a place either. You don't have to be at 3141 Old Elkneck Road to be saved. My friend, you can be saved wherever you are. Call on Jesus and be saved. But during this invitation, if for any reason You feel as if you ought not to take communion, then I'm going to ask you as we pray and we bow our heads and close our eyes, you'll be dismissed during that time period. But the most important thing is this morning. Friend, you must be born again. You say, why is that important? The answer's in the statement. Because you must be born again. Would you stand with me please? Heads are bowed and our eyes are closed.