Amen. I want you to take your Bibles, please, and turn with me to the book of Ephesians. Ephesians chapter number five. I'm going to read beginning in verse number twenty-one. Ephesians chapter number five and verse Number 21, we'll read down to the end of the chapter, which is verse 33. And perhaps you're familiar with this portion of scripture and As you read it, I want you to remember that the emphasis needs to be put where God has put the emphasis. A lot of times we read Ephesians 5 and we Lean heavy on the practical instruction that's here for the home. But really this portion is not about the home. It's about the Lord and his church. And he says that very clearly here in the passage. But Ephesians chapter 5, verse 21, would you stand with me, please? We'll honor the reading of God's Word. Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 21 says, submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands as unto the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church. And he is the Savior of the body. Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands and everything. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it, that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the Word That he might present it to himself, a glorious church, not having spot nor wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself. For no man ever yet hated his own flesh. But nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the church. For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall be joined unto his wife, and they too shall be one flesh. This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church. Nevertheless, let every one of you in particular so love his wife even as himself. And the wife see that she reverenced her husband. I don't know if you picked up on it, but some six times the church is referenced. The teaching of this passage is really a revelation of God's heart for his church, the heart of the Lord Jesus for the church. And I pray the Lord will help us to see that. Father, we bow in Jesus' name and thank you, Father, for the privilege again to pray. Thank you for this time to open the book. Now, Lord, would you open our hearts? Would you do the work that's needed within each one and God get glory? We sure need you this morning. I pray you'd hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. Lord, I pray that you alone would be preeminent, get glory, be exalted. May we worship together at your footstool. We love you, Lord. We appreciate your love for us. Help us now. We pray and we'll give you the glory for both the preacher and the hearer need help from heaven. And we ask it in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. By way of introduction, there's a couple of things I want you to notice that said early on. Now, I'm going to go around I guess the practical instruction here for this isn't the burden of my heart. But there's great wisdom in God's word for our homes. And uh hearing the word of God, listen, you cannot go wrong building by God's blueprint. If you want to build a home that's strong and will stand the test of time, build it on thus saith the Lord. And it will stand because uh it's built upon the the very rock of truth, the very words of God. But I want you to notice what he has to say about the church. There's a couple of things here. First, I see the preeminence of the Lord Jesus in the church. Look at verse 23. He tells us that the husband is the head of the wife And there two times he uses this, even as, or three times rather, even as, even as Christ is the head of the church, and he is the savior of the body. I want to remind you this morning as we think about the Lord's heart for the church. Not only does the Lord have a heart for the church, the Lord is the head of the church. Jesus very clearly said in Matthew chapter sixteen that I will build my church. The church is his You say , preacher, what are we talking about? Are we talking about the multiplied thousands and maybe perhaps even hundreds of thousands of little buildings that are scattered across the countryside? Oh no, not talking about that. I'm not talking about the brick and the mortar and the and the wood and all of that, the the actual structure. I'm talking about that living body. that living body of those that are saved by the grace of God who make up what is called the church. Now I want to emphasize that As we study about the church in the Word of God, that the expression of the church is always in a local fashion. Now we talk about the universal church. You're never going to see it down here. The only expression of the church that you and I are going to witness here is the local assembled baptized body of believers who have trusted the Lord Jesus and gathered together to follow after him. And he's head of that. He's head of the church. He's preeminent. You'll notice that he's the head of the church. He's the savior of the body. Not only is he pre-eminent, but he's the purchaser. He's the one who bought us. The Bible says we've been bought with a price. What was the price? His precious blood. See, the church isn't an organization that has been gathered by men. It's an organism that's been birthed by God. And bought with the precious blood of the Lord Jesus. I submit to you that the church is the most unique thing under God's heaven Because it cannot be compared to anything else simply because it is the creation of the Lord. I have to laugh when men say, oh, religion's man-made. Well, there's a measure of it man-made. But the work of God on this earth is not of man, it is of the Lord. Listen, salvation didn't start because men petitioned heaven to send a Savior Salvation is because God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Salvation's never been in the heart of mind of man, but it has always been in the heart of God. From the very beginning, God made a way for man to be saved. From the very start in the Garden of Eden, when the first little lamb had its blood shed and and the covering made for Adam and Eve. Listen, from that day forward an anticipation was felt not only on earth but up in heaven as the lamb that was slain before the foundation of the world was to come. Salvation's not a work of man. It's not something we've come up with. We often put too much stock in man's doings and not enough in God's deity. God is God. And there would be no hope or no help had the Lord not come down from heaven. Oh, thank the Lord for Jesus that He would love a l a bunch of people like us. But He's the Savior. He's the Savior of the body. Now look at verse twenty four. Again, by way of introduction, I want you to notice not only the preeminence and the purchaser But I want you to notice the people. Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ We're looking at a peculiar people here that have not bowed the knee to men, but have bowed the knee to Christ. They're subject unto Christ. A believer is someone who's bowed the knee. Now listen, God will take rebels, but not in their rebellion. God will save a rebel so long as he lays down his arms. God will not save a man with fists clenched and raised heavenward, saying, Lord, I'm against thee. But he will save a man who says, have mercy on a rebel like me. Have mercy on a wicked man like myself. Oh, that dear man who would not lift his eyes in the temple. He was so convicted by his vile, filthy, wicked heart, he would not look up. Oh, he was standing with the man who had no problem. That man said, I'm I'm glad. I mean, can you imagine praying like that? I'm glad I'm not like this man. Now listen, somebody prays like that in this church, you got my permission to take them by the scrap of the neck and the seat of their britches and toss them out the door. We don't want that foolishness. I'm glad I'm not like this man. God delivers from that. I pay tithes. I do this. I don't commit adultery. He went down the long list of his proud religiosity, and that's all he had, and God said, didn't hear that. Didn't hear what that man said. But there was a man there said, Oh God be merciful, Miss Hinner. He beat his old chest and wept his eyes out and Brokenhearted before God. You know why? That's the kind of people God's looking for. Isaiah said he's looking to the man who's poor and contrite in spirit That's the kind of men God listens to. That's the person he's looking for. Men who bowed the knee, not to the kings of the earth Not to the imperial rulers of time, not to the individuals who rule over the religious realm, but those who bow the knee to King Jesus. They're subject unto Christ. I submit to you, there's many a men who sit in church subject to the leadership who are not subject to the Lord. And it don't matter, my friend, really, who you're subject to on this earth. What matters is are you subject to Jesus Christ? What a people. What a people. Only God knows. And I'm glad God does know. Paul told young Timothy, he said, the Lord knoweth them that are his. He knows. He looks through this assembly. You know all I can do is take an educated educated guess. An educated guess. That's about all I can do. When you look at somebody, about all you can do is take an educated guess. And you can say, well, as far as I can tell, what I can see, but but there is a God in heaven who knows. He knows who's his. I I'm grateful for that. I'm grateful for that for many ways. I'm I'm grateful for that because it's not on me to figure it out Had a dear brother years ago I pastored and he wore himself out worrying about who was saved and who wasn't. I mean every service. I I believe that I believe that fellow back there saved. And then he'd come back, that fella'd mess up a little bit, and he'd say, I don't believe that fellow's saved. And it would change by the by the blowing of the wind just about. Some days he was convinced, some days he wasn't. I said to him one day, I said, dear brother, that's not your worry. It's not any of your business. Listen, if you want to pray for them as if they're not saved, it's okay because God knows the truth. And listen, we we need to recognize the fact that the Lord sees his church I I'm grateful it's not my worry. And I'm grateful that that what time may bring my way is not going to affect my eternity. You say, what are you talking about? Do you know the time may come that you may forget the Lord? I hear somebody say, Well, preacher, I'll never forget him. I pray that's true. But here's what I do know. I know there's such a thing as sin that's brought sickness and disease on this earth. And there's such diseases that can rob you of knowing all things. I mean, you may get to the place you don't know anything. You may not know the Lord. Now, God was good to old Newton who gave us that beautiful hymn, Amazing Grace. That man lost his mind. I think he lived about a decade without the full functioning of his faculties. But up to the very last day he died, the day that he died. He would make this statement. He said, I don't know who you are. When one of his dear Christian brothers visited him, he said, I don't know who I am. But he said, I know who Jesus is. But you may not be able to say that. But I'll tell you what, you'll never be in a predicament where Jesus says, I don't know who you are. He knows his own. And listen, the church, the church is that body of people who are subject unto Jesus Christ. You can belong to the church down here, not belong to the church up there. You can be a member of a local church somewhere and Have your name on the roll and be a respected individual and yet not bow the knee and be subject to the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm talking about that church this morning. The people of that church Now, as we read this text, it's interesting to me that he describes the church with the illustration of the home. And when he talks about his relationship with the church, he talks about it in terms of a husband and wife. Now, please understand, we don't have a perfect example of this anywhere outside the pages of God's Word. I've preached through this passage before and taught what the Bible teaches that wives are to be submitted to their husbands. And you know what? A lot of times it's the hardest, meanest old husband that'll say the loudest amen. And it's all I could do a time or two to keep myself in check and not just sort of go off on the other end of that thing. But the Bible tells the wives to submit their husbands. It tells the husband, love your wife. And how important those things are. But don't let your skewed view of such a thing rob you of the beauty of what the Lord's trying to teach us Because there's nothing on earth I can compare to this. There's nothing on earth that you can compare to this. But do know this: that all that God desires is perfection, and all that God does, He does in a perfect way. So when he uses this illustration and tells us even as and like as and just like if you will, when he uses that terminology, think about it in the highest terms. Think about it in the place of perfection because that's exactly what God means when he speaks that way. Number one, I want you to notice his passion. His passion for the church. He's got a passion for the church. Look what he says here in verse number twenty-five. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church. And gave himself for it. Do you see his passion? The heart of the Lord Jesus is revealed in these verses. We see how he looks at what his position towards, what his attitude is concerning the church. Now, understand this. There's a lot of different attitudes about the church in the day in which we're living. There are a lot of people who are critical of the church. There are a lot of people that are very um condemning when it comes to the church. We live in a culture where it's almost vogue now to be against what you were raised in. It's in Now listen, I'm not good I'm not condoning any wrong, but I'm telling you two wrongs ain't gonna make one thing right. And to have the attitude that says, Well, bless God, they did everything wrong. Well, I'll tell you what, I I'm grateful I I didn't have a perfect pastor, didn't have a perfect church, didn't have perfect parents, but I had some folk that preached Jesus to me And I'm not going to hell because they preached Jesus to me. And I'm thankful somebody cared enough for my soul to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and tell me that you must be born again. But you'll notice that the Lord loves his church. He has an attitude, a position, a heart for the church. He loves the church. He loves the church. You show me somebody with some sort of animosity towards the church, and I'll show you somebody who's stunted in their spiritual growth. You can't get nowhere hating what God loves. You're not going to make it You're not going to progress. Again, I'm not saying that the church has done everything right. And certainly I I could tell you, if you want to know all the mistakes I've made, come, I'll write them down for you. I used to tell folks they'd be a little critical and and sort of censure me from time to time. I said, listen, I got a lot more thoughts than you're pointing out. I could tell you more than you know about. If you want to know, come along. I'll fill you in But the truth of the matter is that he still loves his church. He loves his church. How do you know he loves his church? The verse says that he gave himself for it. John 15, 13 says, Greater love hath no man than this. That a man lay down his life for his friends. The Lord Jesus laid down his life for his friends. The Lord Jesus gave his life. Listen, he gave his life for every one of us who failed him. He gave his life for every one of us who let him down. He gave his life for that man Peter who broke his heart. And that man, Peter, who denied his name, he gave his life for that. Listen, he gave his life for every sinner. Understand me today, he loves, but listen, he loves his church. He 's got a special love for his church. If you were to ask the Lord what his opinion about the church is, his first words I think would be, I love it. I love them. I love my church. He would let us know that he loves the church and and he loved it so that he he laid down his life for it. Let me ask you something this morning. What's your heart's attitude towards the church? You can be a member of it and not be right about it. He said, Now husbands love your wives even as Christ loved the church. Don't raise your hand, they'll sit in a confessional booth. But how many of you married men Have been at odds with your wife, and yet you still loved her. But you knew until you got them odds right, you couldn't love her like you're supposed to. Well, I didn't mean to kill the spirit here, but it obviously need to be said You you you you can't listen, you you can't live at odds and live in love. There there's got to be a unity and a harmony. Sadly, our homes are tragic episodes of selfish individuals sulking around and being split apart. Because we don't have enough in us to say, hey, I'm sorry. Forgive me And m let me just say to the dear men here, men, it doesn't make you less of a man saying you're sorry. In fact, it takes a lesser man not to have enough sense to say, look, I messed up Oh listen, my preacher used to say, he said, you know, making up is so good. He said, sometimes I start a fight just so we can make up. But you ought to make up. You ought to make up And in regards to the church, there ought to be some making up concerning the church. There's some people today that aren't living for God because they got out of thoughts with the church. And they run it down, they run it down, they run everybody down, and they hate everybody, and they're not going anywhere with God, though they'll tell you they're the most spiritual person alive. You know what their problem is? They need to make it up They need to make it up. I'll never forget just being a wee little boy and a old gentleman On a Sunday morning was in the altar weeping, crying, a great disturbance was caused, and he got up behind the pulpit and he said, I gotta say something, preacher. And that dear old man who had taught Sunday school for years in his later life split our church, took a whole bunch of people and started another one, got right with God, got right with the church, he came back and he said, Church, I'm sorry. What I did here was wrong. What I did and what I said, and I'll tell you what that impressed on me. It's pretty important to be right with the church. Now I'll tell you where we're living. We're living in a day where if you get your little feelings hurt, you get mad, you run over here, and you go down the street and you run everybody down over there and and you say, We don't like him over there, and you'll find a crowd that'll say, Yeah, we don't like him, either come be with us. And then they get mad down here and they run over here and they say, Well, I'm just gonna go over here and run and it it's just a vicious cycle. You know what They're out of sorts with ten or twelve different churches and and try to get right with God and we're praying for revival, and you can't have revival with all that garbage. You gotta take the trash out. Taking the trash out means you might need to go and say, Preacher, I'm sorry for what I said. I said this about you and this one and that one, and I need to get that thing right because I want to be right with God Jesus loves his church. He said, I love the church and I gave myself for it. Oh, what a heart he's got for the church Oh, that God would give us a heart again for his people. By the way, this is his bride. I don't know a red blooded man that'll let another man run his wife down. I'm not advocating anything, but if somebody runs your wife down, you ought to have enough backbone about you to sew their lips. Because that's your wife. You love her. You all love her. I'm not saying your wife's perfect. The Lord's wife isn't. The Lord's bride's surely not perfect. But he loves it. And he's gonna stand up for it. I'm going to tell you something. You better be careful how you treat the Lord's church. Because it's his bride. It's his bride. You know what position he takes? He takes a position. Listen, I remember we first got married. There was a man that he he just had a he was a had a position in our church and he he just was ugly. I couldn't believe the things he would say and do And it's only the Lord that kept me from blacking both of his eyes and swelling his lip. But I it got to the place, and we'd only been married, I think, maybe two months at that point. We passed him in the hallway. And I didn't plan on doing this because I didn't really s uh know he was coming that direction. But have you ever seen the Secret Service when they covered the president? And I scared poor Elizabeth to death. I put her against the wall and I stood there between him and her. And I uh we got out up to the top of the stairs. She said, What is wrong with you? She said, do we need to go to the doctor and get medicine? I said, no. That turkey needs to go somewhere else. But anyway , I'm talking about loving your bride. Don 't think the Lord's love is any less passionate than yours is His is pure. His love is a love of a holiness. His love is a love of pure. And listen, he said, I love my church and gave myself for it. I wouldn't say some things that I've heard preachers say to the church. Because it borderlines offending God's bride. It's his church. Folks, it's his church. It's his church to straighten out. It's not our job to straighten the church out. It's not our job to straighten one another out. It's the Lord's church. Said he loved it. He gave himself for it. Not only do I see a passion for the church, but I see his purpose. He's doing something in his church. Look at it. Verse 26, that he might, he's talking about the church, sanctify it and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word. You know what he's doing? What's his purpose? By the way, he's not making the church happy. He's making the church holy. May the Lord help us get that. He's not interested in how happy I am. He is interested in how holy I am. The church of today has adopted a cruise ship mentality We want all the bells and whistles and performances and entertainments and conveniences, and we want it all now. We want it all best. We want it all so that we're entertained, so that we can come, sit, soak, sour, and go home and be sorry But God saved us by His grace to clean us up. I liken going to church like getting put in a washing machine. This is God's scrub house. He's cleansing us, He's washing us. Now look, you can wash yourself and it needs to be done. I used to go hunting, we'd stay a week or so in a camp and I'd try to take a few clothes depending on how far we went and I would wash my clothes in the creek And hang them up and let them dry. And I thought I did a pretty good job, quite honestly. But when I got home, everything I owned got put in a washing machine And every once in a while I'd say, no, I washed that already. I wash that in a creek. That's clean. Just put it. I'm not putting it in there. I'm going to wash it and put it away. And I was amazed one time she said, come look in this washing machine. You thought that was clean? Just look at this water. You know what? That washing machine could do something I couldn't do in the creek. And I'm telling you, when the body of Christ assembles together under the preaching of his word, the Holy Ghost and the Word of God does something you can't get on your own. He he begins to cleanse and he's washing. What's he doing? He's making he's sanctifying. By the way, that just simply means he's setting me apart from my sin unto himself. He's setting me apart under himself. He's cutting off those things that are offensive to him. He's drawing me into a closer walk with him. He's sanctifying me. That's his purpose for the church. Oh, friend, understand that the church exists not to entertain, not to please men. It exists simply to be the place where God is sanctifying and cleansing his people. I like that word cleansing here. It means to wash off defilement. In John chapter 13, Peter and all the disciples and Jesus are there and he's washing their feet and he gets to Peter and Peter says, No, you're not going to wash me. And the Lord said, if I don't wash your feet, you'll have no part. And old Peter, being like Peter was, he simply said, Lord, wash me all over. Just don't stop on my feet, wash me from head to foot. And he said, you don't need to be washed from head to foot. You're clean already. But there's defilement on your feet. And Peter understood what he was talking about. They lived in that day where you walked dusty streets and you might have been at a bathhouse and been cleansed. But when you got home, your feet got dirty and had to be washed all over again. You and I live in a dirty world. You and I live in a dirty environment. Listen, the filth of the flesh and the filth of the world in which we're in, we need constant cleansing. But aren't you glad there's an agent that can wash and make us clean? He said how? By the word. The word of God. It is this Bible that'll scrub your mind. You know what's wrong with our culture? We've got corrupt minds. We're what Paul said, we're men of corrupt minds. Our minds are polluted. Our culture is polluted. And I'll tell you what will wash it out, the Word of God. The Bible will cleanse our minds. It'll cleanse our hearts. It'll change us and transform us. We see his purpose for the church. God is using his word to cleanse his people. That's why, oh dear friend, that's why as a local church, our command from God is preach the word. Our purpose is to preach the word. Our goal is to preach the word Because it is the washing and the cleansing and the sanctifying of the word that needs to be done in our lives. And this is the agent that does it. This is what will get the job done. Now listen, there are some things you can't remove with soap and water. Huh? I mean there are th I don't care what kind of concoctions you come up with. Remember Joe Joe got sprayed with a skunk one time and we tried to get that off of him? I did everything on the internet I found. I mean we b it's a wonder he's got any color to him. We bleached him. We took borax and put peroxide, and man, it made the awfulest looking bubbles you ever seen and covered his body. He said one time, he said, Dad, I think my skin's coming off. Well, his skin did come off in a place or two, but the stink didn't Did it. Six months later he'd start sweating and smell like a skunk. I we tried everything. They they tell you, and I know some of you will come up and say, Preacher, I got a remedy. I'm gonna tell you, we tried it. We've tried tomato juice, lemon juice. We've tried everything. Man, we've bathed, I I washed them in gasoline once, and it still didn't work. And listen, it just had to wear off. And there's some there's some filth, I'm telling you, that we're living in a world that's awful hard to get off We're living a very dirty time and you can't hardly turn uh a television on and a commercial and and watch it in its entirety without some polluted thought being presented to your mind. But I'm telling you we've got something that has super cleaning power. It's the precious word of God. He cleanses by the word. And you need to be under it. I wouldn't be flippant about going to church. We're living in such a dirty hour. I would not be flippant about going to church. Some of you need to pray, God change my attitude about church. You get here if you can. It's convenient. You come if it's if it's available on your schedule to pencil in and there's nothing else crowding it out. I'm telling you, we're living in two dangerous, dirty days To be so flippant about getting cleaned up. We need to be in the house of God, under the Word of God, getting the preached word of God, and listen, I'll tell you, it'll clean you up. It'll clean you up. I need it. I'll tell you how we need the help of the Lord. Then notice this there's a presentation coming. Now this cleaning, this this purpose, this cleaning the church Is all for a reason, verse 27, that he might present it to himself, a glorious church. Not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. What's coming? There's a day in the future. The church is going to be glorious. Do you see that? Glorious church. Oh, I'm afraid she's not there yet. But that day's coming. John says to us over in 1 John, I believe it's chapter 3, it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear, we shall see him. Oh listen, and when we see him, we'll be like him. That's going to be the glorious church. Now you can sit around and find fault if you want to, but I'm just looking forward to the day when we are not going to be what we currently are. I'm glad there's coming a day. Now listen, if you're saved, you're not what you were You're not what you were. And certainly any honest soul would say, and preacher, I'm not all I can be. I'm not what I ought to be. But thank God we're not what we're going to be yet either. There is coming a day when the church will have no fault, she'll have no failure, she'll have no blemish, she'll have no marks on her, she'll have no sin in her. Oh, she'll be a glorious church. Thank God for that Every once in a while you need to look around and say, God, thank you for the people, not what they are, but what they're going to be. What they're going to be. Thank God, he's going to finish. My Bible says what he started, he's going to complete. He that hath begun a good work in you will perform it Oh friend, listen, he's going to complete the work he started. And you'll notice this, he makes it very clear. They're going to be without spot, without blemish, holy. What a church. What a church. The day is coming. By the way, what's happening today? Preparation day. We're getting ready for them. What's going on right? This is wash day. Amen. I'm not demeaning the Lord's Day. Lord, you know, my heart But I'm saying that this is what he's preparing us. He's getting us ready. The presentation's about to come. By the way, keep in mind, husband-wife, husband-wife. Do you know even in this culture, where do you think our a lot of our cultural influences come from? They come out of this book. Even in this culture, there was a presentation of the wife in a wedding. She was prepared. She made ready. Now all of you men, some of you gonna have to shake some dust off some memories and pull the cobwebs down. Do you remember when you got married? You know something? Chris, I'm gonna tell you something. You got one job. Be here. It's not complicated. Just be here, son. Her preparation. It's a long process. Amen. He already sees. Amen. Pray for him. And her. It's a long process. That morning, you remember? I was thinking last night for some reason. I got up, I couldn't sleep. I was thinking about our wedding day when when we got married, I milked that morning, milked the cows, fed the calves in the four pastures. Did all the business went and got a haircut got the meal of the champion on my wedding day. I went to McDonald's and got my hamburger. And then I went to the house, the little house we're living in, and I started getting ready, and I realized my tie, my necktie wasn't tied. And I didn't know how to tie a tie back then. So I called my brother and I said, Eddie, uh, can you tie a tie for me? And he said, sure. He said, you at the church? I said, no, I'm still at the house. He said, what are you doing? I said, well, I'll get there. I'll be there eventually. He said, you better get over there. I said, where are you? He said, I'm getting ready to leave. He said, you should have been there. He gave me my lecture. But anyway I got to the church and afterwards we were talking, Elizabeth and I, and man, she'd been there early that morning. And you know, I don't have to tell you all the goings on, just getting ready. Boy, it's a lot of work. But I'll tell you, when the presentation was made, all effort was worth it. Man, I can still see her when them back doors opened on Trinity Baptist Church, 216 Shelburne Road, Asheville, North Carolina. And and I must have been about to pass out because the preacher grabbed my arm. He said, You gonna be okay? I said, Yes, sir. He said, That's your bride. I said, I can't believe it There was a presentation. Please listen. There's coming a day. When all the preparation's done. All the cleansing, all the washing, all the getting ready, and he's going to present to himself A glorious church. That church is going to be in her beauty. She's going to be in her perfection. There won't be a spot or blemish. Listen, there'll not be an unsanctified soul among us. There will not be a dirty heart. There'll not be a corrupt mind. There'll not be a sinner or a saint who's backslidden and away from God. There'll not be any such. We'll all be in that glorified state. He's going to present it unto himself. A glorious church. You watch every once in a while people get a little critical, you just remind them. Two things pray for us, and then remember one day all that'll be passed. Be a glorious, glorious church. And then notice finally the preservation of the church. Verse 29. It says, No man ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as the Lord, the church Quickly notice this, two words, nourish and cherish. The word nourish means to bring with care to maturity. He uses it again in chapter six when he says, Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Lovingly bring them along to maturity. Bring them to that place of mature thinking and mature acting. And that's what the Lord's doing. The Lord's maturing his people, he's growing us up. As the Lord works in his church, his goal is maturity. That's where he's going. We've told in Ephesians 4 that he's working in his church in the body so that we'll not be children tossed to and fro He said, but speaking the truth in love, that we may grow up into him in all things That's what we're doing. We're growing up. We're maturing, and he's nourishing the preservation of the church. This was a happy day when I saw this. The maturity of the church is not on my shoulders. The preservation of the church is not in our hand. It's the Lord's church. You're his children. He's bringing us along. He's maturing us. He's growing us up. It's his doing, not ours. And then notice that word cherish. It literally means to show tender love. Paul wrote about the Thessalonians there that he said we were as a nurse among our children. He said, That's how we treated you. We were like a nurse with a child. We cared for you in such tender, loving ways. And I don't know about you. When I read that, I think, who am I and what am I? That he would love me like that? That he would nourish and cherish me? That he would nourish and cherish his church. That we'd have the privilege to be under the watch care of the Almighty, that we would be individuals who received the benefits of being nourished and cherished by the Lord Himself. Don't think for a minute the church is in your hand. You know something as we look out on the future, the that this church has been talking about and praying about future things and and preparing, and I believe we ought to do our humble human best. But at the end of the day, the nourishing, cherishing of the church is in the hand of the Lord. It's his church. He's the one that makes it live. He's the one that causes it to grow. He's the one that feeds it and tenderly watches over it. He's the one that cares for it like you'd care for your own. Oh, listen, who wouldn't want to be a part of what the Lord's church is? It's under the watch care of the Almighty. I'm telling you, folk that separate themselves from a local church rob themselves of a blessing. They literally rob themselves of a blessing. They say, I'm not interested in the nourishing cherishing. Oh, listen, I don't know about you, but I need all the nourishing and cherishing I can get And the Lord said, that's what I'm doing with my church. I'm nursing, I'm bringing her along tenderly, carefully, lovingly. What love? Do you see his heart? Do we get a glimpse? Can we not see that his heart loves the church? And he's longing to work in the church and to make us what we ought to be. Oh, can I ask you this morning, what's your heart towards the church? What kind of heart do you have for the church? Do you see it like the Lord sees it? I believe the reason that we can be seen in this fashion is because we're under his precious blood. And when he sees us, he doesn't see us in all of our fault and failure. He sees us in reality, but he doesn't see us As we perhaps even see ourselves. You know what he sees? He sees us washed in the precious blood, cleansed and made whole Complete in thee, the the old songwriter said, No work of mine, can take, dear Lord, the place of thine. Oh, aren't you glad we're complete in him? He's done the work, he's doing the work. May God give us a heart for the church. You say, preacher, how's a person getting the church? By coming to Jesus Christ. See, you can't go around the corner here and get in a side door. Oh, I know people join the church who have never been saved. But that doesn't put you in the church I'm talking about. You might belong to an earthly organization, but this heavenly organism requires the work of God and grace in your heart. And my dear friend, if you have never seen yourself lost, cried out to him for mercy, been forgiven of all your sin, trusted Jesus in him only for salvation, you need to be saved And the good news is you can be. Christ died for your sin. That's a beautiful truth. On Calvary, he did not pay his debt, he owed none. On Calvary, he shed his blood not to wash his sin or atone for his sin, for he was the perfect Lamb of God. But there he shed his blood for me, and he shed his blood for you. Your sin debt was on the tally when Jesus died on the cross. He was paying your debt in full. And then the Bible says they laid him in a grave. Three glorious days later he rose up. He's alive. He lives. He lives forevermore. We don't have a dead Savior. We don't have a dead God. We have a living, risen Savior. And he rose again to justify us from all things that we could never be justified from, except he'd be punished in our place. Christ died for our sin, according to the scripture. He was buried and rose again the third day, according to the scripture. You say, preacher, then what saves me? Simply Jesus. Nothing else. Oh, but I've been told I must pray certain words. Pray whatever words you wish. Hear me now. It's not the words that save. There's a whole lot of people. Lord help us to see it. There's a whole lot of people. Hey, let me give you something. It has the words right here. Pray that and you'll be okay. Brother, sister, listen to me. Them words don't save nobody. You can say all the words you there's no magic potion But there is a marvelous person. His name's Jesus. He'll save you. And when I read my Bible, I hear men just simply saying, Lord, save me. I hear men saying, Have mercy. I hear men saying, remember me. But you know what happened in all cases? God saved every one of them. Because it's not the formulation of words It's the turning of heart to God. It's the recognition of lostness and the power of Jesus to save. It's the work of God's Holy Ghost in a man's heart that regenerates him and makes him live. Ah, it's not just getting a part of a earthly organization. It's being born again from above. That's what God wants to do if you're not saved. Then you can say, I'm part of that glorious church. One day I'll march the streets of gold with that crowd. I'll sing his praises with that number, simply because of what Jesus has done. Now, dear brothers, sister, you may not be right with God, get right with God. You may not be right with the church, get right with the church. Let's get our hearts where they need to be. Let's say, oh Lord, give me a heart. Give me a heart. Give me a heart. A heart like yours for the church. Let's let him have his way with us this morning. Would you stand please quietly and reverently? Father, help us.