For the mercy of God. And I appreciate the Lord and his goodness saving Brother Hitchens and then doing the work in his dear wife's heart and then using them all these years uh here at Marinatha Baptist Church. We're grateful for them. And uh you just don't know what God 's going to do with whomever He's working in. You just have no clue. And I'm grateful that God is in charge of his harvest and in charge of his church. I want you to open your Bible, please, to Matthew chapter number twelve. Matthew chapter number twelve, and I want to read several verses in your hearing, beginning in verse number fourteen. I'm going to read down to verse number 21 and take verse number 20 as our text. That's Matthew chapter 12. Starting in verse number fourteen, and if you're able, would you join me in standing as we honor the reading of God's Word? The Bible says, beginning in verse 14 of Matthew 12, then the Pharisees went out and held a counsel against him, how they might destroy him. But when Jesus knew it, he withdrew himself from thence, and great multitudes followed him, and he healed them all. And charge them that they should not make him known, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, Behold, my servant, whom I have chosen, my beloved, and whom my soul is well pleased, I will put my spirit upon him, and he shall show judgment to the Gentiles. He shall not strive nor cry, neither shall any man hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed shall he not break And a smoking flax shall he not quench, till he send forth judgment unto victory. And in his name shall the Gentiles trust. I want you to look at verse number 20. Verse number 20 is a quote directly out of Isaiah chapter 42. And in Isaiah chapter 42, we read the same text here. A bruised reed shall he not break, and a smoking flax shall he not quench. In this verse of Scripture, we're shown an attribute of the Lord. And throughout our Bible, there are many attributes revealed in the Scriptures concerning the Lord Himself. This particular attribute is the gentleness of God. And I want to look at that this morning, the Lord helping me. Let's bow our heads together and pray. Father, we want to thank you for the privilege that we have again to gather here. We thank you for the Word of God. We thank you for your mercy. Already been sung about. Our hearts have been encouraged by. Thank you, Lord, for the singing of the choir and the congregation. Now, Father, I pray as we come to this time that you'll settle our hearts. And quiet them and Lord deliver us from the distractions and all the things that would pull our minds away. Give us ears to hear what the Spirit saith And have your way and will in this gathering. And we'll be careful to give you the glory. Lord, you know the need of every heart. If there's a lost soul here, Lord, I pray that you might do thy work in their heart. Convict of sin and of righteousness and of judgment to come. Lord, if there be one away from you, would you draw them home? With your merciful love and kindness, Lord, would you bring them back to that place of full surrender and yieldingness to thee. And Lord, would you encourage your people today? Just meet every need. And Lord, I pray you'll get all the glory and the honor. Hide me behind the cross. Help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus, for it's in his mighty name we pray. And God's people said Amen. You can be seated. I want to remind you that if you want to know what God is like. Open your Bible. The only authoritative truth that you have to know who God is is the precious word of God. Oftentimes we I I think today we we we get our theology and our ideas about the Lord in some pretty bizarre places. And I remind you that the only trustworthy place is the precious Word of God. And in this Bible is a revelation of the Lord. There's an unveiling starting in the book of Genesis, going all the way into the Revelation, is an unveiling of God, a declaring or a demonstrating to you and I and a defining of who the Lord is. We ought to study this out. We ought to try to figure out who God is according to the Word of God. I'm not interested in a God of my own making. There's a lot of that listen, we may not be a country known for idolatry, but we are idolaters in this country. We have idols that are there and and you know what? In many times it's an uh what we would call an Orthodox church, uh a church that might have a name of being once alive and and uh all across denomination boundaries or borders you have individuals and uh they believe what they believe because they want God to be who they want God to be rather than what the Bible says he is. Now, friend, the only the only person you need to be trusting in is the Lord who's revealed from glory through the scriptures as we have them here today. Now, in the book of John you have an example of that. The Bible says in John chapter 1 and verse number 14 that the word was made flesh. And dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth Do you see that attribute of the Lord? Perfectly balanced, absolutely blended. He's full of grace and he's full of truth. Listen, if he was all grace and no truth, he could not be God. If he was all truth and no grace, he would be a God, my friend, that would annihilate and eliminate every single one of us. But the Bible says he's full of grace and truth. Now, my text here today in Matthew chapter 12 and verse 20. Says that a bruised reed shall he not break, and a smoking flax shall he not quench, till he send forth judgment unto victory. Here is a word picture drawn. that demonstrates and illustrates the gentleness of the Lord. Now when you think about who the Lord is, Dr. Hitchens read those texts in the book of Job, and my heart wanted to stop at the end of it, although the bell had already rung. But I thought it had been right fitting for us all to stand together and sing how great thou art Because those verses of Scripture remind us of the greatness of our God. And the the greatness of God is seen in the in the magnitude of creation that is all around us. When I see the sun, the moon, the stars When I see all the animals that God's created, the different uh geography that He's made, when I see all the things that God has done, it doesn't make me want to bow on my knee and worship the Creator, or rather the creature. It makes me want to worship the Creator. Makes me want to worship the one who made it, not the thing that is made. And so we have a revelation of God through Creation, but here in the Word of God we have a demonstration and an illustration of how gentle the Lord is As he made himself known to Job, he reminded him of how powerful he was and how small Job was. He said, look, this is when you when you think about these questions. And he was asking. You just stop and ponder them. Hey, Job, where were you? And he started right in the beginning. Hey, Job. When I put in the foundations and I started to build all the things, where were you? Job, can are you such a man that you can contend with me? The God who made those mighty creatures that are described in those latter chapters, the God who made them can certainly control them, and he does And the God who made all things is certainly in control. I will have to say this because we live in a time of great confusion. Many people are worried that man's going to destroy the earth. You go to sleep tonight and put your little head on the pillow and you rest assured that man will not destroy it. God will one day. Man's not going to hurt it. Man does all he wants to do. There's a lot of things behind that, and I don't want to get sidetracked, but I do want to remind you that a lot of the things that are spouted out around the land today is not truth from the Word of God. There's a lot of anxiety that is pushed on people that would not exist if people knew their Bibles The Bible would take away a great deal of anxiety of things to come if we just knew the one who was in charge and ordering what is to come. And certainly the Lord is doing that. But I want you to think about the gentleness of the Lord Jesus, the gentleness of our God. I want you to see, number one, that the frail are illustrated. The frail are illustrated. Look what he he says. A bruised reed and a smoking flax. The bruised reed was probably one of the most abundant plants that people were familiar with in that day. growing in a in a marshy environment that was very easily broken. A reed can be bent over And if it remains bent over for a period of time, if you go to straighten it back up, often it'll snap because it's so frail. You couldn't think of anything more fragile than the bruised reed. The smoking flax would be the wick, just to understand it in our terminology. The smoking flax would be that wick that is just lit enough to give off smoke, but no flames are visible. And it would be easily extinguished with just mere the pinching of the fingers. You could put it out. So the Lord chose these two illustrations to demonstrate how frail and how he handles those that are frail. You say, well, who's he talking about? Well if you will consider with me this morning that first it's a picture of humanity. You know man thinks he's something. Until he views himself in the eyes of God. Man thinks listen, man, y if you don't believe man thinks he's something, just ask some of them and they'll tell you just how something they are. The reality is, my friend, that that man thinks he he's he's powerful. Man thinks he's he has great abilities and skills and so on. But I remind you that man at his best state is frail. It don't take much to set you or me down. I I think one of the Benefits and challenges of age is recognizing that we are not all that we think we are. If you ever, as an older, say man, work with a younger man, you realize that what you once could do, you can no longer do. But even in our youth, you know Isaiah said this in Isaiah chapter 40, that the youths shall faint and fail. Youth has a limit to their strength. And by the way, how many of you know it don't take much to get us to take us out of here? My preacher used to say back in western North Carolina, Dr. Sexton Sr. used to say a gnat could go down your throat backwards and pull you out of here. And that's all it takes. That's how frail. Humanity is frail. And when you look at yourself in light of eternity, my friend, what's your life? Three score and ten, if by reason of strength four? What is that in light of an eternity? Before God Himself. Humanity is frail. It's a picture of humanity, but I believe it's also a picture of those that are hurting. This is a broken, uh excuse me, a broken reed and a smoking flax. It's a picture of those that have been hurt or broken, if you will, whether by sin or life in general. They're just at that point of barely hanging on. They've been broken. The flames about out. And my friend, you don't have to live very long to know that this is a broken world. We live in a broken time. Whether it's in your own life or the lives of others, you know this, that when sin entered in, it brought death. And much of the consequences of what we see in the world today are simply that, consequences of sin. Say, why do all these bad things happen? I'll tell you why. S-I-N. Sin is abundant, sin is rampant, and the truth of the matter is, is that, my friend, sin has consequences. We live in a world that staggers and reels from the consequences of sin and its mighty effects. And you and I oftentimes are like the broken reed and the smoking flax. But I believe these also picture not just humanity and the hurting, but I also believe they picture the humbled. The reed that once stood proud now's bent over. The flame that once soared high now smokes. There's no light to be given. It's just barely smoking. And I want to remind you that oftentimes that's where God has to get us to get help. The humbled get help. Have you ever noticed in the Word of God, it's not until a man comes low that the Lord will lift him up? He hears the cry of the humble. What does he do? He resists the proud. He knows them afar off, but he hears the cry of the humble. Look at old Nebuchadnezzar beat his chest and stand and look over great Babylon and say, what a great leader I am. And then look at that man like an animal eating grass and the hair on his back like feathers and his claws or his nails grown out like claws and humbling himself and acknowledging Lord your God And the same God who took him down there is the same God who brought him back up from there. Because you know what? He deals with the broken reeds and the smoking flax. Listen, life may have left you sort of like that reed all bent over and broken. And it may have left you like a smoking flash, just uh not giving off light, but just just merely smoking in existence. But I'm glad there's a God in heaven who's got an eye for that sort of thing and an interest in those, and he deals gently with them. Listen, if God were a man, if God were like some men, He'd hurt he He would hurt the broken reed, the smoking flax. I mean, no, you can't be rough with everything. It was always neat to me just thinking about raising our children how opposite they were. Our daughter Sarah was so so quiet and I mean she could sat all day in her room with a book when she was three years old Couldn't read a lick, but should look at the pictures and be quiet as a mouse and never break a thing. Our son started at two days old breaking stuff He's twenty-one years and he's still breaking stuff. He gets his hands on it, he breaks it. Some you don't have to be rough with everything, isn't that right? There's some things you've got to be gentle with For obvious reasons. I was thinking about Sarah when she was born, and I didn't know how to hold a baby. You know, what are we? 20, 19, 20 years old, we got this baby. And the nurse came in there, she was a German lady, immigrated here to the States, and she saw me awkwardly trying to figure out how to pick her up And so uh only thing I could figure, she had this little blanket on, she was all wrapped up, and it just had what looked to me like a perfect handle So I just got a hold of the blanket and picked her up. Man, that nurse, I can still hear her. No, no, no. She got in my face and boy, she gave me a talking to And she said, You never held a bath. I said, well not really. And uh she said, well you better you better do it like this. She said, put it down, put her down And she told sh taught me how to support her head, you know, pick you know, you mothers are shaking your head. Man, I wouldn't let you touch my baby. I hope I've learned something since then, but You know, but you you've got to be gentle with things that are fragile and frail. You hurt them. And I'll tell you, there's some folks that that sin and the devil, by the way, the devil don't care about you, friend. He don't give two hoots or a row of pins about you. When he's done with you, he's done with you. When he's finished destroying you and breaking you and just ruining you and and tearing you down, he'll be done. He'll walk away. You'll be a broken reed and a smoking flax. But I've got good news for you. There's a God in heaven who's got an interest in you. Even when you're a broken reed and a smoking flax, he'll come along and take you up in his gracious arms, and he knows how to handle those. That need gentle dealings. I want you to not only see the frail illustrated, but I want you to see tenderness demonstrated. Because again, notice the text: a bruised reed shall he not break, and a smoking flax shall he not quench. By the way, both of these allude to the fact that they're being handled. They're being handled here. He's handling the broken reed, and he's handling it in such a way that it that it doesn't break it, that it doesn't destroy it. He's handling that smoking flax in such a way that he doesn't put it out. He's taking them up in his hands and he's dealing with them in such a way that they're not annihilated, that they're not destroyed. And aren't you grateful that when everybody else casts you off and when the devil casts you aside, that the Lord comes through the refuse pile and he starts picking up broken reeds and smoking flax? He's got a use for them. You say, what in the world could you do with a broken reed or a smoking flax? Just open your Bible and read what God has done with such as he has taken, broken men and women And done things in their lives that only he can do. Not only does it suggest a handling, but I see in this text a helping. He's going to help them. He's going to help the bruised reed. He's going to help that smoking flax. He's going to help the bruised reed by not breaking it. And he's going to help that smoking f Wax by not quenching it By the way, that little word quench means to come and blow until there's a flame. Now it's a it's about to be put out. He's not going to do that. He's not going to put it out further. He's going to make it live again. He's going to give it life again. He's going to make a flame burn again. He's going to make that reed strong once more. Can I remind you of a man in the Bible who was a great man of God? A man that we would look at and say, how could that man ever get in that shape? His name was Elijah. And he stood on Mount Carmel and challenged those 800-plus prophets of Baal. And he called down fire from heaven with just a mere 63-word prayer. And he stood before the great nation of Israel and said, If Baal be God, serve him, if Jehovah be God, serve him Make up your minds. Quit standing in the middle ground somewhere and just follow whoever's God. And the God that answers by fire, let him be God. And there was a fire from heaven that fell, and those prophets were killed, and then a threat was uttered. And you and I listened to this. Have you ever just thought this was just a threat from Jezebel? And it wasn't her first threat, by the way, on Elijah. And it wasn't her first threatening of life, his and others. But she made a thread and said, your head's going to be like the head of the prophet uh of those prophets of Baal before the next sunset. And you know what Elijah did? He took off The man who prayed fire from heaven ran from the threats of a queen. Now before you get too cocky and say I'd never, how many of you have said I never and there you went never and like you never before? Everybody sitting here. I'd never I I tell you my children will never don't ever utter words like that. Because sure as the world they'll do it Here he goes on the run. And you know he's he's got to the point, he says, God, I'm no better than my father's just kill me. He's a bruised reed and a smoking flax. And he says, what I'm done. He's out in the way. I'm finished. There's nothing else for me to do. You kill me and take me out of here. What did the Lord do? Hey, the Lord didn't send him a sermon. The Lord let him go to sleep. Now don't use that as a Bible text asleep in church. That ain't what I'm suggesting I I think we need to go back to those Puritan days when they had the ushers with the knockers that wake you up. I got men that volunteer to do that, I think. But he let him sleep. You know what? He didn't fuss at him. He made him some food. You know why? Because he was a bruised reed and a smoking flax. Elijah needed to rest. He needed to be physically replenished. And then he needed to be reminded of just how big God was, and God demonstrated his greatness not in ways that would awe or shock us But he demonstrated his greatness by speaking in a still small voice. I believe the shock and the awe Would have shook him as a bruised reed in a smoking flax. I mean, there is a place and time for a demonstration of power I didn't realize, uh, Brother Neil, that it was April that you guys were here. It's May. I was just thinking it was just about a month ago. We were trying to figure out when. Boy, time gets by We had the privilege to see a demonstration of shock and awe down at the proving grounds, didn't we? And there was some power unleashed. Boy, you walked away realizing, man, there there is some mighty weaponry in this country that stands ready for our defense, and we praise the Lord for that. But there's a time you don't need shock and awe. There's a time you need quietness and rest. And you need to hear the gentle voice of God. Now I'll tell you, God knows when I need to hear the gentle voice, and God knows when I need to hear a much harder voice. He'll speak to the condition as it is. How many of you know growing up, your mother had a voice that changed tone based on your behavior And she had a tone that meant, I mean business, and you'll die if you don't do this. Or she had a tone that said, gently, please do this. And that that tone was, how many of them know that tone was entirely up to you? That was a good day when I figured out I set the tone of that voice. And you and I much in the same way set the tone in our Lord's voice. That bruised reed and that smoking flax needed a helping at that moment And then I want you to notice there's holding suggested in this text. And we see that that for the bruised reed and for the smoking flax to get any help from the Lord, it's got to be taken up And to be held in his hand. In that text, back in Isaiah 42, let me read something to you here. Isaiah 42, and I believe it's verse number 6 I, the Lord, have called thee in righteousness, and will hold thine hand, and will keep thee. And give thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the Gentiles. Notice that, he'll hold thine hand. Isaiah 40 says, We're engraved. In the palms of his hands. The Bible emphasizes again and again and again that holding aspect of the hand of the Lord. And my friend, listen, you're held in gentle hands. Our God is such a God that He knows what we need, when we need it, how much we need it, where we need it. And when we're a bruised reed and a smoking flax, you can rest assured the gentleness of God will be demonstrated. But then I want you to see, last of all, this balance that is indicated. The Bible is a great balancer. Now listen, you can get in a ditch on either side of truth. You can get in the ditch on either side. You can take a truth and run it in the ditch on either side. But the Bible is a balancer. The Bible doesn't take the middle of the road. The Bible doesn't take an unfirm ground. But the Bible does balance, like grace and truth. They balance each other. And this gentleness of God is balanced by this truth. Look at it again in the text, please, Matthew 12, 20. A bruised reed shall he not break, and a smoking flax shall he not quench, till he send forth judgment unto victory. Won't you notice that halt to this thing of gentleness? He said, teal. Now he's going to deal with the bruised reed and the smoke and flax to a place in time where he 's going to change. There's a halt, teal. There will come a time when his gentle dealings will no longer be an option. You need to hear that, dear friend. There will come a time when God's gentle dealings will no longer be an option. There'll come a time when God says the gentleness, the day for gentleness is past. The opportunity for grace and mercy is up. Although the grace and mercy of God is never exhausted, it's not always extended. It is never used up, my friend, but there comes a day when you can send away your day of grace. When you can turn away the gentle hand of God and call for a much rougher dealing from his hand To use that same illustration of your parents, if you were raised properly, your parents had a place and time where they no longer just simply spoke. They acted. I don't like to go in public places very often, to be honest, because it frustrates me to see how we're raising a generation of children. I was in the store some time ago and I heard this mother one, two , three. You know what that little rascal did? Four, five. I thought, you know what? He knows she's full of hot air. That counting means nothing. It's just the smoke. Man, I didn't even get a hat, I didn't even get a. 5. Some of you didn't either. You didn't even get good fair warning Until you heard the swoosh, you know what I mean, coming your way. And listen, our our our behavior is what initiated or what called forth. And what I'm trying to say is this, is that there's going to come a time when God says, I can no longer deal in gentleness. I'm no longer going to deal in a gracious way. I'm going to have to deal in a much harsher way. This world doesn't like to think about it, but we're quickly moving towards judgment. We're swiftly running in that direction. And there is going to come a day, the Bible says, if judgment begins, first begin at the house of God, listen, what's it going to be with folks that don't know the Lord? Our God is a gentle God, but listen, He'll not always deal gently with us if we fail to respond to His gentleness. There's a halt. He says, till. Then I see a horror in this text. And it really is a horror. He says, till he send forth judgment. I don't care what judgment you want to talk about, any judgment from God is severe. The judgment of God is real. If you don't believe that, read the book of Genesis and look at the destruction of the earth by a flood. That was the judgment of God. God's judgment fell on this earth. And whether men believe it or not, it makes no matter to me because it's recorded in the Word of God that it happened. And the Bible tells us that God judged man and destroyed every breathing, living thing save Noah and his family. And my friend, listen, that happened. That's the judgment of God. Can you imagine such a thing? Read your Bible and read about a place called Sodom and Gomorrah. And see the fire come, literal of fire come from heaven as it consumed the inhabitants and destroyed the land. And tell me if the judgment of God is not a horrible thing. You think about what the Bible promises to all those who reject the Lord Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. The Bible promises a place in a place called hell and an eternity in the lake of fire. And my friend, whatever words we use to describe fail to declare the horrors of this awful place of eternity where lost men suffer forever. You can't utter the horrors of this judgment. I believe we as a nation are living under that judgment of God. By the way, all God has to do to judge a place or a people is just simply to back off. Take his hand off. Let us do what we want to do. Let us be what we want to be. The greatest curse we've given to a generation of children is we've let them be what they want to be and do what they want to do. And the Bible says that foolishness is bound in the heart of a child And listen, if you don't guide, mold, teach, instruct, and train that child, that child will self-destruct every single time. Take your hands off and walk away, and you'll you've got a ticking time bomb on your hands. Oh, but listen, my friend, we're much the same way. Can you imagine the horrors of the judgment Jesus faced as he took the wrath of God for sin on the hill called Calvary? You and I stop and think about Calvary, and we think about it oftentimes in terms that are not fair, nor are they biblically true. We look at it and we think, oh, what a almost look at it as a romantic scene there, the the Lord Jesus dying for men, and yes, it was great love that held him there. But it was a scene of great wrath. God was angry at sin, and he's pouring out his judgment upon his very son. And the Son of God is bearing the penalty of sin. He who knew no sin became sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God. No wonder the heavens went black and the earth went silent and finally shook it is death. Why? Because Jesus, the very Son of God, had experienced and drunk that cup of wrath right to its very full. You know why he did that? He did that so you wouldn't have to. He did that so you'd never have to enter into that judgment. He did that so he could forgive and cleanse and wash and make you anew. My friend, listen, if you turn away from such a thing and wipe your feet on the blood of Jesus Christ and march into hell, stepping over the cross of Calvary, oh, what horrors of judgment lie just ahead for you. Listen, this goodness and gentleness of God has an expiry date. Then you'll notice a hallelujah in this balance. Because the Bible says, till he send forth judgment unto victory. Thank God one day he'll depose all evil. One day he'll vanquish all darkness. One day he'll reign forever and ever. And when he arose on the third day, he truthfully, literally The Bible says, conquered death, hell and the grave. But there's coming a greater victory ahead. There's a victory that lies ahead. That where we will see, my friend, it's going to take one angel to find the devil and throw him in the bottomless pit. It's going to take mere words from his mouth to uh uh to eliminate all the armies of the earth. He's gonna shut down all darkness. Ma what a savior, what a victory. And listen, no longer will he be the gentle, meek lamb hanging on a cross dying He'll be the mighty king seated on a white horse, ruling and reigning forever and ever. He'll be the king, eternal, immortal, thank God, no longer invisible. He'll be seen by all, and every knee will bow and every tongue will confess. That Jesus Christ is Lord. I tell you, friend, that day's coming. Gentleness will be shelved for his sovereign kingliness. No longer will he deal with gentleness. He'll rule and reign on this earth for a thousand years, the Bible says, with a rod of iron. I want to say this: gentleness should never be taken for granted. Some of you sitting here are the recipients of God's goodness in your life. And you're mocking it. Or maybe you're misunderstanding it. As an approval of God on your wicked ways. And I've got news for you. God's being gentle. And his goodness is looking to lead you to repentance. But the day will come when his gentleness will no longer be available. He'll put that gentleness away, and my friend, he's going to deal in a way that we would not want him to deal with us in. Time's running out for the unrepentant. Time's running out for you, lost friend. You're breathing God's air right now. What are you going to do when he cuts it off? Your heart's beating under his command. God's been gentle. He woke you up, let you get up this morning, made the sun shine on your face Let you come and hear the good news that you could be saved. And my friend, if you go on thumbing your nose in the eyes of a holy God, you are marching into an eternal hell. God's being gentle. God's being gentle. There was a man who stood in an open-air meeting and said, If there's a God, let him strike me dead. And then suddenly people gasped in horror and watched and waited quietly and nothing happened. Then he began to boastfully say, See, I told you there's no God. If he was God, if he was listening, then he would have struck me dead when I challenged him. And the preacher very wisely stood and said, Oh, there is a God. And in great goodness to you and grace and mercy, he didn't take you up on your request. Because had he taken you up on your request, You would have been in hell immediately crying out from the region of the damned for mercy, and mercy would not be had. He showed you an opportunity to be saved. And you know that went like an arrow in that man's heart And the man who told that tale recorded that that man got saved and became a great witness and lived many years for the Lord Jesus. And he was a leader in this group of atheists that was somewhere here in the Northeast. And God used him to reach many of those people with the gospel of Jesus Christ. I'm just saying, don't take the gentleness of God for granted. Your blessings is not God 's approval on your disobedience. Don't think for a minute that your the smile of favor that you seem to enjoy is God's smile of favor simply uh you know b because he's he he he's just being gentle. He's just yes he is being gentle and good. But it's not an approval upon wicked behavior. It may be God's just given you a space of grace. And God's just giving you a little window and opening the window and saying, I'm going to show 'em how good I am just Give them an opportunity to repent. I look at this country and I believe that we've had a space of grace. I wonder when it's going to be over. I believe the goodness of God that we've enjoyed materially and in other ways of prosperity. I wonder when that window's going to shut. I wonder when that time is going to be over. It's just a little opportunity, a little window here that God's given us to get right with Him and to be and to be what we ought to be for Him. And my friend, when that window's closed, it's closed I'm saying today if you're not saved, you need to be. Just because you're not in hell doesn't mean you're not heading there. Just because, my friend, you're not walking the the the corridors of the damned doesn't mean that won't be your eternity. God's being gracious to you, friend. And if you're not saved and you die in that state, you'll die without God and without hope. And you need to be born again. You need to get right with God. And my dear Christian friend, you may be living fast and loose, but let me urge you today, God's been gracious and gentle and good with you. But his goodness and gentleness will soon be shelled for chastisement. Let get your heart right with God. Don't walk astray. Listen, that young man, when he marched out of his father's house, thought he had the world by the tail And he walked out of there and lived it up and spent his money and had many a big party and enjoyed the pleasures of sin for a season. And then it all came crashing down. It always comes crashing down. And it will come crashing down. It will come to an end, a sad end. Look at him there. As he mere a mere shell of what he was. He's tattered. He's dirty He's wanting to eat the food the pigs are eating. And my friend, it was down there he realized, hey, my father's servants are better off than me. My father's servants live better than this. I'm going to go back to my father. I'm going to tell him I've sinned. Forgive me. Just make me a servant. And boy, when he got home, he found out that the father was going to be gentle with the prodigal. He didn't fuss at him, he didn't preach a message to him. He grabbed him up in his arms, kissed him on his neck, began to weep and say, My son that was dead is now alive, and began to rejoice, and he'll welcome you home too if you'll come back to God. There's mercy to be had. I appreciate Dr. Hitchens singing that song this morning, Mrs. Hitchens talking about mercy walking in. And I'll tell you, my friend, mercy doesn't just walk in when you get saved. There are times you need mercy to walk in again. And you need mercy to pay you a visit again. I'm grateful for the times mercy came back to my house and mercy came back to my situation. And the mercy of God reached down and lifted me up out of the muck and mire of my own doing. Aren't you glad that God will do that in your Christian life? When you fail him and you utterly uh just fall on your face and and miserably let the Lord down. I'm glad there's a God in heaven who extends mercy to those that cry out for mercy. I really believe with all my heart no plea for mercy goes ignored. God doesn't turn a deaf ear when a man cries for mercy, when a man cries out sincerely, honestly. With a broken heart for mercy, there's a God in heaven who will dole it out in great measure and give mercy to those that need it. And you may be sitting here needing some mercy. And I'll tell you something. God help us. But a lot of our churches aren't places to find mercy. I'm just going to tell you, a lot of our churches aren't places to find mercy. We'll find rebuffs and rebukes. Sometimes I think it's because we've forgotten what the Lord's done for us. We've forgotten the times he showed us mercy. I'll tell you what you're looking at. You're looking at a man that lives on the mercy and grace of God. And I'm telling you what I'm looking at. I'm looking at men and women. You wouldn't be sitting here if it weren't for God's mercy. None of us can put our thumbs in our spiritual suspenders and crow like banny roosters and say, look how good of people we are. All of us have to bow our heads and say, were it not for the grace of God? And his mercy in our lives, we'd be utterly ruined. But for mercy. Thank God for mercy. Old friend, listen, there's mercy to be had. But please be warned that mercy, though it will not expire, it may not be extended. There will come a point, God says enough. His gentleness will be shelved one day for a demonstration of his greatness. And I want to be on the right side of Calvary when that day comes. How about you? Are you saved, dear friend? I don't care what church you belong to. If you've been in the waters of baptism, none of that will put your sin away. It takes the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And friend, if you're not saved, you can be. You're among people who want to see you saved. And if you're not saved, we're going to sing a hymn in just a moment. In fact, brother, you come on. We're going to stand together. He's going to sing the hymn. And as he sings that hymn, I want you, my friend, to do business with God. These altars are still used in this church. We're grateful for that. And if you're able to kneel and call upon the Lord, he'll save you. If you want somebody to pray with you, would you lift your hand and a man will join you if you're a man, a lady will join you if you're a lady Can I say to you, dear Christian friend, are you right with God? Are you where you ought to be with the Lord? Are you playing with the gentleness and goodness of God? Friend, it's going to run out. It's going to run out just as sure as there's a God in heaven. And you need to be aware of that. You need to let God deal with you. Get your heart right with Him. And listen, I don't know about you, but it makes me. When I think about how good and gentle the Lord is. It makes me want to humble myself before him and just simply say thank you. Thank you for being gentle with me, Lord. Thank you for not extinguishing my light or breaking my life. Thank you, Lord, for your gentleness You mind the Lord this morning, Father