Bibles this morning to Romans chapter number one. Book of Romans and chapter number one. And I'd like to read the first seven verses in your hearing. And the Lord helping me, I'd like to cover at least the first four today. Romans chapter number one. You find your place, I'll invite you to stand with me, please, and we'll honor the reading of God's word. In Romans chapter number one and verse one The Bible says Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle , separated under the gospel of God, which he had promised before by his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. Concerning his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh, and declared to be the Son of God with power. according to the Spirit of Holiness, by the resurrection from the dead, by whom we have received grace and apostleship for obedience to the faith among all nations for his name. Among whom are ye also the called of Jesus Christ. To all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I want you to go back up in verse number one and mark those words, the gospel of God. The gospel of God. And the Lord helping me this morning, I want to preach on the majesty of the gospel. The majesty of the gospel. Heavenly Father, we bow our heads and pray for help. I ask you, Lord, to undertake and work in our hearts as you see fit. And Lord, if there's one who doesn't know you as their Savior today, I pray that the Lord Jesus would be clearly set before them. And I pray the Spirit of God would do his deep and mighty work. Save that soul nearest hell. Speak to us who are saved, Lord, that we might see again the majesty of this great gospel. Lord, again we love you, and we thank you for loving us, giving us this opportunity to meet and worship. Have your way, Lord, and we'll praise you for all that you do, for we ask it in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. As you read this book, the book of Romans is Perhaps one of my favorite books in the Bible, because it sets forth the gospel in just such clear terms. As you study the book of Romans, you begin to find out that the Gospel is its theme. And Paul uses here this title, The Gospel of God. In verse number one, and he's the only writer to use it, and that title simply covers everything about the gospel. Now there are four titles given the gospel. If you'll notice not only the gospel of God in verse 1, but go down to verse 9. It's called the Gospel of His Son. In verse number 15, it's just simply called the gospel. In verse number 16, it is the gospel of Christ. Now, four names, but let me be quick to say one gospel. There are four titles that are given to the gospel. In fact, there are more than four titles. There are many titles in the Bible given to describe the gospel, but there is only one gospel, and that is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, who died for man's sin, was buried, and rose again the third day. The theme of the book of Romans again is the gospel. Someone said it's the most comprehensive description of the gospel. Another writer called it a theological masterpiece. But be that as it may, the gospel is clearly laid out in the book of Romans. And it does so in such a way that it makes you bow your head in awe of what the gospel is. And it's in my heart this morning. It's in my heart to make much of the gospel. It's in my heart to magnify the majesty of the gospel of Jesus Christ. You ever tell somebody about the Lord and they say, well, that's your truth? Well, it's more than just your truth. In fact, there's no such thing as your truth and my truth. There's Bible truth, then there's lies. And so uh the the reality is is that it's a majestic the gospel is a majestic thing. Uh I read recently or or saw some where somebody gave a gospel tract out and the person said, Oh, I've I've I've gotten one of those And just sort of dismissed it. Well, that tells me a little bit about their view of the gospel. The gospel is not an old religious relic. The gospel is not some just cheap, tawdry thing that you can get down at the dollar store. The gospel is the majestic truth. That God came down among men, lived as man among men, died as God for man's sin. and conquered death, hell, and the grave on resurrection morning and lives forever today and gives eternal life to whosoever will. The gospel is a majestic message. It's a message rightly understood, should make every man's heart bow in wonder that the God of heaven would care enough for the likes of us to do such a thing. In regards to the majesty of the gospel, I want you to see three things this morning. I want you to see, number one, the people who are involved. It magnifies the gospel when you understand who's involved with it. And then I want you to see quickly the promises that are made concerning the gospel. And then I want you to see the person who is declared. And all of that's in Romans 1, verses 1 to 4. I want you to see first the people who are involved. And The name right there in the beginning is Paul. Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ called to be an apostle, separated under the gospel of God. Who is this man Paul? And what majesty do we see in his life in the gospel? By the way, I think every Christian. Ought to be a person who demonstrates the majesty of the gospel in the lives they lead. Because, number one, they're saved. That's who Paul is. He's a saved man. And if you go back and read in Acts chapter number 9, you read where he got saved. Now, I hope you've got aware. Now you may not remember a what, and I've met people that don't remember the when, but they do have a where. They know where they were when they trusted the Lord Jesus. You may not remember what you prayed. You may not remember whether it was sunshine or rain. You may not remember whether it was a Monday, a Tuesday, a Wednesday, a Thursday, a Friday, a Saturday, or Sunday. But my friend, there is a place where you met God if you're saved. And Paul had a place. The road to Damascus was that place where Paul met the Lord. Now I've told you before I don't remember what I prayed. I do remember when. I do remember where. I've got a where. And I don't know where they've remodeled the old building if the where is still there, but there was a vent, a return vent for the air conditioner. And it was way over here in the corner because I was such a shy young fellow, I wanted to get where nobody would see me. And so I got up there next to that vent and knelt down and began to ask the Lord to do a work in my heart. And it was there, Brother Worley, come up beside me, an old pastor who was in between churches, and he knelt down and he said, son, what do you need the Lord to do for you? I said, I need to be saved. And he took the Bible and clearly began to just tell me how to believe on the Lord Jesus, how to trust him to be my Savior, and I'll ever be indebted to that dear man. But that man didn't save me. The Lord Jesus did. And I'm saying this morning that that Paul is a saved man. He's a man who, and notice what it says, he was separated under the gospel of God. Now there are three separations in Paul's life. We read in Galatians he was separated from his mother's womb. He was separated under the gospel in Romans 1. 1, and he was separated by the Spirit to the call of God in Acts 13. So what does all that mean? What does it mean, separated under the gospel of God? Here's what it means. That word separated means to feel a horizon. When the sun came up this morning. The night was separated from the day. You know how? Sun filled the horizon. Sun came up. And and all of a sudden all the darkness that once covered the land has now been removed and nothing but light can be seen. So what's that got to do with this? Everything. When you got saved, there was someone who filled your horizon. The Lord Jesus Christ. Here's how Paul would write it later to the Colossians. He would say, Christ is all in all. He would recognize the and listen, that was the great thing in Paul's life, the great one in Paul's life. You can't read a letter Paul wrote without hearing the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus filled his horizon. He was separated under the gospel of God, dominated by the person of Jesus Christ. Oliver B. Green says it like this: He was arrested for God. I like that. That's what it that's what this salvation does. Salvation arrests a man for God. It takes a hold of a man and says, now this was your way, but now you're going my way. You once were the devil's child. Now you're my child. You once had nothing to do with Jesus. Now you want everything, you want Jesus and Jesus alone. Thank God for the gospel of God. Paul said, I was separated, I was saved, I was transformed, I was dominated by the person of Jesus Christ. See, Jesus means everything to somebody who's saved. It's not that he's an a luxury option. He's all you have. And he's all you need. And he's all you want. I need, the hymn writer said, no other righteousness. I need no other plea. It is enough that Jesus died and that he died for me. That's enough. And when you study the book of Romans, you come away from the study realizing that Jesus Christ was all Paul needed. Jesus Christ was all Paul wanted. Jesus Christ he found in him everything, everything. Not Jesus plus. And my friend, I'm afraid Christianity has been weakened and brought down, I believe, from a place that God didn't intend for it to ever come down from by this adding to. This bringing alongside. Now, listen, I hear people say I'm walking the straight and narrow. Well, what do you mean by that? I know where I grew up, there was an old saying that the old mountain preachers would use. They would say, I don't drink and I don't chew and I won't run with the woman who does. And so that was what they meant by straight and narrow. But can I say this? You can do all of that and miss Jesus? I know the Bible says Jesus is the straight gate. He's the narrow way. Well what does that mean? I'll tell you what it means. It means he's the only way. When you came into this building, you came into this sanctuary through that back door, you came in through a straight gate Now this building's a hundred and something feet long and however many feet wide, and there's lots of ways, but there's that entrance back there, that main entrance narrows it all down. Jesus Christ narrows it all down, so narrow in fact, that he said, I'm the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh unto the Father but by me. This salvation gospel, this separated under the gospel of God, the salvation that Jesus gives a man, oh beloved, listen, it's a straight and narrow way for sure, because he is the only way. And Jesus was everything. Paul didn't mix his Judaism with Jesus He realized that all of that was just a foreshadowing of the thing to come. Now, wouldn't it be silly? Charlie, can I pick on you a minute? How long have you and Sister Beth been married? Uh oh, I'm sorry. Sister Beth, how long have you and Charlie been married? Too long Lord help me, please. All right. All these years you've been married. Wouldn't it be a silly thing for Charlie to carry a picture of Miss Beth? And talk to that picture, tell that picture good night. Totally ignore her as a person. And she's sitting beside him and she's thinking, what's wrong with this fella He's looking at the picture when he's got the real thing. He's talking to the picture. I'm here to tell you what Paul had in Judaism was just a picture. What he had in Jesus was the real thing. And beloved, listen, you don't need Jesus plus. Now, I'm a Baptist by conviction. My Bible has made me that, but I don't need Jesus plus the Baptist. Jesus alone saves. Jesus alone satisfies. I'm a member of Marinatha Baptist Church, and I'm thankful for that privilege to be a member, but I don't need Jesus plus my membership. I was baptized at 13 years of age after being born again as an eight-year-old boy. And listen, I believe we ought to obey the ordinance of baptism because it's in the Word of God. If you're saved, you ought to take the next step. But understand this, friend. Salvation does not come because you've been to the waters of baptism. Salvation does not come. You're not saved. Water doesn't wash your sin away. The blood of Jesus does. And so it's not Jesus plus anything, it's just Jesus. And one of the things that you walk away from studying the book of Romans understanding is that Jesus is enough. He filled Paul's horizon because he can feel a man's heart. He can fill a man's heart. There's a lot of things you try to put in there that won't fill it. There's a lot of people today that are empty. They want something. They're looking and searching and and trying and they're finding out, look, it just don't satisfy me, no matter how uh high they get, or no matter how intoxicated they become, no matter how many relationships they have, no matter how many successful jobs they they secure. The only thing that can satisfy a man's empty heart is the Lord Jesus and him alone. Know this, that he filled the horizon of Paul. Paul said, I was separated under the gospel of God. Not only was he saved, but notice he was sent. Look what it says. He was called to be an apostle. He was called. Now Paul had a unique place, didn't he? He says this, I was one born out of due time. He was an apostle, it seems, a day late and a dollar short, so to speak He saw the Lord, resurrected Lord. That was a requirement to be an apostle. Now this these dear people that come around and say, I'm apostle so and so, you ask them straight up and down, have you seen Jesus Christ, the resurrected Lord? There are no apostles living today. When John died, that was it. But know this, he was Sent from God. He was sent by the Lord. He was on a mission. God had a commission for him, a plan for his life. And I'm saying that as a Christian, here's the majesty of the gospel. Not only does he save me and satisfy me, but he saves me and sends me. He has something for me to do. If he didn't have something for you to do, you'd already be in heaven. You say, but what about me? I'm just me. Well, you may just be you, but God has something for you to do if you're saved by his grace. There's someone that you can point to Jesus. There's someone that you can touch with the gospel message. I think sometimes in ministry we think about it in levels. where where we ought to think about it more in layers. We look at it as a level. Here's a level. There's a there there's ministry up here and then there's layman down here. And I got news for you. That's not Bible. All of God's people are ministers. We're all servants. We're all called to carry the gospel message. Paul was an apostle. He had a layer of responsibility that I don't have. He had a layer of responsibility that's not been entrusted to me or you. But you and I have responsibilities that have not been given to others. Let's just be simple right here and say every one of us have a commission to go and preach the gospel to the whole world. Every one of us here, you say, where's my world? It's the person that don't know the Lord. That's your world. It may be your work world, your It may be your community world. It may be your school world. I don't know where you're , but wherever you are, and there's a person who needs the Lord, that's your world. And my friend, you've been sent. The gospel message is this. Not only does he save you, but he sends you. Jesus in talking to his disciples talked about being sent by the Father and he says, even so send I you. I'm sending you I'm sending you back out into this world. I'm sending you back out to men and women who need the Lord. I'm sending you out so that others can hear the good news of the saving message of Jesus Christ. And then notice the last thing he says about Paul here: that he's a servant. He's Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ. That seems to be his favorite title. It's not very often he talks about his apostleship. He even seemed to have to be forced to bring that out. He said to the Corinthians, he said, you're making me do this. You're pushing me to the point that I've got to remind you. that that I am an apostle. I don't come behind the least of, I'm not the least of any of the apostles. I I am called of God in that position. But he always liked to speak of himself as being a servant of Jesus Christ. Now that word servant there is a bond slave. Or another word for it is love slave. He was a love slave. Back in the book of Exodus, when the Jubilee, the year of release occurred, in Exodus chapter 21, they were to set all their slaves free. But if you had a slave who loved you and said, I want to remain with you and be a part of your family, then he would give himself and they would mark him with an awl. They would pierce a hole through his ear. And that would be a mark he bore that said he loves his master so much that he wants to be a servant till the day of his death. He literally became a love slave. You know what Paul's saying? I'm a love slave of the Lord Jesus Christ. I love him so much that I yield my life willingly and give myself completely. to be a servant of the Lord Jesus. Rather than choose freedom, he chose bondage, a lifetime of bondage. I never read that, that I don't think of Jim Whitted. Brother Jim Whitted taught in our school, and Brother Whitted was a missionary for many years in Scotland. He just was a wee little fellow, not that tall hardly. And Brother Whitd had been in the Marines. He had done a lot of things in his life. And God saved him just out of a very Very bleak and dark place. And God put the call on his heart to preach the gospel. And I remember seeing him at times he would he would put his hands up like this and he would say Uh young men, I'm in a prison with no walls. He said, I got into something I can't get out of. And I'd sit there and think, what's he talking about? And now I understand that he was he was sla saying, I'm a love slave, I'm a bondservant of the Lord Jesus Christ. I've given myself over to him, and I can't I can't pull myself back. I can't take what I've given over to him. I love him too much. I want to live for him so long as I live. I got to see Dr. Whitted before he went to heaven. He had lost his memory. Dementia had taken uh just about everything from him. I uh he and I were close friends and I said, Brother Whitty, do you know who I am? And he said, I'm not sure And he had lost, he he he wasn't quite sure at times who his wife was, he wasn't sure about his family. He couldn't remember everything that he had done in his life, that he had lived in Scotland and was a missionary there, a lot of stuff he could not remember. He lost a lot of that. But he and I were sitting there. And we were talking, and the Bible came up, and Brother Whittage said, Do you preach the Bible? He was a very intense man. He grabbed the hold of his You preached the Bible. I said, yes, sir. I said, remember you taught me when I was a young man. I don't remember that. But do you preach the Bible? I said yes, sir. He said, do you preach the gospel? I said, yes, sir. The death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ? I said, yes, sir. And he hit the arm of the chair and he said, Wonderful, keep at it. I said, well, amen. Now he had lost a lot of stuff, but he hadn't lost that heart. He hadn't lost that love for the Lord Jesus. And I'm saying here that Paul said, I want to be a servant till the day I die. And brother, sister, the apostle Paul said this: I fought a good fight. He stayed true to that vow. He was a bondservant of the Lord Jesus until the day he died. See, the majesty of the gospel is seen in the miracle of the people involved. Because we don't have time, but if you go back and study, Paul was Saul. He wasn't Paul the Apostle, he was Saul of Tarsus. He was the Sanhedrin persecutor. He was the man sent to go find Christians. And it was on the way to Damascus God saved him. Here's what I'm saying. The majesty of the gospel is seen and the miracle of changed lives. When somebody gets born again, Jesus starts doing things that only Jesus can do. I hope you're one of them. You know God has a lot of trophies, but he doesn't set them on a shelf. He puts them in skin and puts them among men and lets them live to show how good he is. Now, friend, if you're one of these, there's a miracle in your life that's taken place. We see the majesty of the gospel. Doesn't it make you bow in awe that God would take sinners and make them saints? That God would take a man like Paul, a persecutor, and make him a preacher? That God would take men headed for hell and turn them around and put them on the road to heaven? Isn't that the m isn't the gospel a majestic thing? The church can't do that. There's not a preacher who can do that. Listen, there's not a religion that can do that, but I'll tell you the Lord Jesus can. And he's done that for many of you. And if you're not saved, he can do that for you right now. He can do that even now. Number two, I want you to see quickly the promises made. This shows the majesty of the gospel. Look in verse number two. It says in Romans 1 2, which had he, excuse me, which he had promised afore. By his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. You'll get a lot more out of the Old Testament when you realize that the Old Testament is a whole lot of promises about Jesus. That whether you're reading in Genesis or Leviticus or you're reading in Ruth or you're reading in Psalms or you're reading in Proverbs, there's a whole lot of promises about Jesus Christ. He said he promised a four. He promised a four. He promised in the past through those prophets in the Holy Scriptures. Well, what did he promise? Can I quickly give you three things he promised that are so clear? Number one, he promised the seed. In Genesis 3:15, he said the seed of the woman will bruise. We'll have his heel bruised, but it'll crush the serpent's head. There's a seed. He promised a seed And you know when Adam and Eve, when they had that child, when they came out of the garden, it was a man-child, Eve was thrilled because she said, I've got a man from the Lord. You know what she was anticipating? Seed. This may be him. This may be him. And can I tell you from that time forward The seed that w that was born, they were looking, they were anticipating, they were believing that somewhere Messiah would come, somewhere he would be born, somewhere, and listen, in Bethlehem's little manger In Mary's little teenage arms, she held the seed promised of four by the prophets in the Holy Scriptures. God kept his word. I know centuries of time would pass, but God kept his word. He promised a sacrifice Genesis 22, Abraham's taken Isaac. Isaac sees fire and wood and everything to make a sacrifice, but he doesn't see a lamb, and he's smart enough to know who's going to sacrifice where's the sacrifice. And Abraham said, God shall provide himself a lamb. God did it. God did it. Man didn't conjure him up. God did. God gave the Lamb. And listen, church, I'm glad to report to you the Lord Jesus Is that sacrifice? That's what a lamb was for. A lamb was a sacrifice. And when John the Baptist saw him coming over the hillside, baptizing him the river Jordan, he said, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. There was God's sacrifice. God had given a lamb. Oh my friend, you think about it. Remember the little nursery rhyme Mary had a little lamb? Fleece was white as snow. And everywhere that Mary went, the lamb was sure to go. I'm glad Mary there was another Mary had a little lamb. That lamb didn't follow her around. That lamb was going to Calvary. And that lamb was put on a cross, and that lamb shed his blood. And that lamb opened a fountain that still flows freely this morning. That man's sin can be eternally put away under its crimson flow. I'm glad this morning to tell you God provided a lamb. He made a sacrifice, church, he kept his promise. Isaiah said this, he provided a Savior. Isaiah 53. He provided one who would bear my iniquity. By his stripes we are healed. A Savior. That's what he describes in Isaiah 53. A Savior, one who can redeem man, one who was cut off for man. But yet a man whose travail, whose anguish, whose suffering satisfied the God of heaven that when man when God sees man in his Son, he's satisfied, because that now means You're saved. There's a Savior in the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm saying this morning that God made some promises and kept them. You know, this is going back thirty years. You remember when promise keepers came on the scene? Some of you old enough remember And boy, that was a big deal. Talk about men keeping promises. They keep promises to their wife, they keep promises to their children, keep promises to their church, and all of that. But know this: there was a promise keeper long before that organization. There is a promise-keeper who's never broken a promise. There's a prom there listen, you may be, I've heard people say, and there are many of you I know, you're as good as your word. Your word 's as good as who you are. If you say I'm going to do it, you'll do it. If I'm going to be here, I'm going to be here. You're as good as your word. That's rare in 2024, but thank God it's not extinct. But know this, as purposeful as you try, sometimes you fail. When Josiah was little, I never would tell him I was going to take him fishing, because if I did, he'd worry me to death till we did. Or he had used this on me. Now, Dad, you promised. Now I might be sick as a dog. He didn't care. I had to get up and go fishing. Because I promised we were going to go fishing. And a few times I did, but there were a few times I said, son, I know I promise, but I just can't do it. Something's come up, it's impossible for me to go. And and and you know what? You all know what that's like to be disappointed by a promise not being kept. But listen to me. There's a God in heaven who's made promises. And he hadn't kept them all because it's not time yet. But all the ones that that that we know about that he's kept are ammunition enough to believe he's going to keep the ones to come. Gives me confidence to know. He said he'll be. . Now, you know, I sing this this morning, that he was born in Bethlehem. From Nazareth called out of Egypt. That's all prophesied in the Old Testament. How could that all happen and come together Well, you know the account, don't you? He was born in Bethlehem. He fled to Egypt for two years and came back out and lived in Nazareth. And all of that is true, but it was prophesied in the Word of God. See, God will move heaven and earth to keep his promises if need be. Because that's the kind of God He is. And the majesty, here's the promise I love. You might be troubled and trembling today over your soul. He said, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now you might be troubled about that, and you say, but does he really mean it? No, he does. No that he does. He means that. You say, but does that mean me? Would he save somebody like me? No, he will. No that he will. He'll save somebody like you. He didn't put any disclaimers on that and say now I'll save you if you i if you call on me, but you've got to call on me at 1152 on April the 14, 2024 Now, if you call 1153, you're not going to get me. Out of out of out of order. Out of business. Phones are turned off. We're driving through Maine, had a flat tire and stopped at a tire shop The guy said, I went up to the door. It was two minutes to five. And I saw the sign. I said, they're still open. And I'm walking fast. And the guy behind the counter, he sees me and he starts walking faster. And by the time I get to the door, he's locked it and turned the sign around. And I stood there and I said to him through the glass, I said, Sir, I live over in Nova Scotia and I'm trying to get home. I need a tire. He said, come back tomorrow. I said, come back tomorrow. I look, I said, we're so many hundreds of miles from home and we need a tire. I the the the uh what do you call it the little donut tire that we had was about flat. I'd already driven sixty miles on it. And uh I said, there's there's no way we can get home. And we we've got to get home. He says, It's not my problem, sir. And he turned around and walked off. Now forgive me, I said, You bunch of Yankees. This wouldn't happen down south Lord have mercy on me. That frustrated me. But I was too late. Aren't you glad there's a God in heaven that don't have hours? He'll save a sinner at midnight, he'll save him at two in the morning He'll save a sinner at the break of dawn. He'll save anyone who comes to God through the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the promise-keeper. He made some promises. The majesty of the gospel is seen in the promises God's made and kept. Now, quickly, look at the person declared. I'm talking about the majesty of the gospel. In verse 3, the Bible says, concerning his Son Jesus Christ our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh. And declared to be the Son of God with power according to the Spirit of Holiness by the resurrection from the dead. We've got a sign up here. It says, We preach Christ. Got a sign right here on the pulpit says, sir, we would see Jesus. Why is that so important? Because Jesus is the gospel. The gospel is not a plan, the gospel is a person. And when we preach the person of Jesus Christ, we're demonstrating the majesty of the gospel. When you see Jesus for who he is, You see the true majesty of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Notice he's declared number one to be the Son. He's God's Son. Look what he calls him here, concerning his son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Man doesn't make him Lord. We recognize it He's Lord, whether you admit it or not. And one of these days, every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. That's going to happen. But you'll notice here that he's declared to be the Son of God. He is the Lord. He's Lord of heaven and Lord of earth. He's Lord of all. The Apostle Paul here, as he's declaring the gospel, declares that Jesus Christ is Lord. I fear sometimes we humanize Jesus and deify man and almost draw the picture that he's a groveling subject trying to get men to trust him. Which is not true at all. Jesus is no groveling subject. Jesus is the mighty God of heaven. He's Lord. And he's inviting you to come into the kingdom, his kingdom, the kingdom of his dear son, and only he can translate you out of the kingdom of darkness because he alone is Lord. Concerning his Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Not only is he Son, but notice he talks about the seed of David, verse 3, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh. Now what's he why is he bringing that up and pointing that out simply because he's emphasizing his place in time to come? While he's our Lord as saved men and women, he will be the Lord over all the earth at an appointed time. He will literally rule and reign on this earth. We believe in a literal rule of Christ. Christ will reign. He will reign on this earth. This earth will have his feet walking on it once again, and they won't go to Calvary. They won't be nailed on a cross They will be bowed before and confessed as Lord, and all men will acknowledge He's the one who rules and reigns on this earth. And I say to that, even so, come quickly, Lord Jesus. This world's in a mess that there's not a man on the planet that's going to fix it. All we're doing is making it worse. We're throwing gas on the fire. But when he comes. All hell be put down. All rebellion will be quenched. God in heaven is going to rule. What a day that'll be. He's the seed of David. And then this declaration of the Spirit. He's declared to be the Son of God with power according to the Spirit of holiness by the resurrection. From the dead. The sinless life of Christ was proven by supernatural resurrection. We don't preach half man, half God, Savior We preach a whole man and a whole God who's bound in one individual who's the Savior of mankind. He was tempted in all points like his we are yet without sin. Coursing through his bloods through his vein was not the blood of his of some fallen man, Adam or anybody else. But through his veins ran the royal blood of God in heaven. That prepared blood, that sacrificial blood, that blood that was accepted because it's pure and spotless. You say I can't wrap my head around it. Don't worry about your head. Just acknowledge with your heart the reality that he is the sinless Son of God. If he was nothing more than a man, this is just folly. If he's nothing more than just another man who died as a martyr, we're wasting time. But my friend, listen, he's God. And there he died for you and I. He he was declared to be the Son of God. Now, a lot of men say things I was in Oxford, Nova Scotia. This lady came up to me and she said, Do you know I'm the Messiah? I said, Wow. I'm a way I didn't know it was going to be a lady. And I've got Bible that says otherwise. Oh yeah, and boy, she was convinced. She was convinced. She was scarily convinced. I'll never forget it. And there's a lot of people. Jim Jones, he declared, I'm Messiah. Remember that era? There's a whole There's a whole bunch of people that said, I'm the Messiah, I'm the Messiah. And most of them live morally messed up lives. I'm preaching one that you've got a a record, an eternal record, an infallible record, and its record says he was perfect He was sinless. Even Pilate would wash his hands and say, I find no fault in this man. This man's pure. There's nothing wrong. There's no reason for him to die. And we know in the scriptures it says that he died for no fault of his own, but he was made sin. You and I, as unrighteous, sinful, wicked men and women, he was made sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. I say again, oh, what a Savior. Declared to be the Son of God by the Spirit of Holiness and by the resurrection from the dead. That's one thing to claim. Now, by the way, all those Messiahs, you can go find their graves. All of those professed, I'm a Messiah, I'm a Messiah. Only Jesus. Only Jesus. Lives today. Only Jesus. Hey, know this. He's no fairy tale. He's no foolish imagination. He's what stands between your soul and hell. Someone said he's the sole savior of the soul. Declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of Holeness, by the resurrection from the dead. Do you see the majesty in that? If I can just put it simple, there ain't nobody like him. Look at him and die. I mean, do whatever you want to do, you'll find out and walk away. There's nobody like Jesus Christ. Nobody. The gospel is a majestic gospel. You see its majesty imprinted on the people that are involved. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. If we had time this morning and give you two minutes for every saved person to stand here and tell the difference Jesus made. I think we'd walk out of here saying, wow. What a savior. What a savior. But we also see his majesty in the promises he made, and my friend kept, and will keep. And we see the majesty of the gospel in the person who's declared. Jesus Christ. He is altogether lovely. Now you can find fault in this church. It's awful easy to do because we're a faulty outfit. You can find fault in this preacher. I've often thought, I think one day I'm going to publish a book of my faults. And give it to people so they'll have it and not have to work so hard to find them. But you could pu you could publish a book too. But there'll never be a book published point and fault in Jesus. There's just simply no fault in him. He's perfect. He's God's perfect Lamb. And my friend, I pray, as we walk through some of these verses in Romans, that our hearts will be humbled in adoration. Of the majesty of the gospel of the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not some cheap little story. It's the wonder of the ages. The hymn writer said, I am so glad that Jesus loves me. And you know, I don't think we sing it quite right. We don't emphasize what needs to be emphasized. Because when we sing, we ought to be emphasizing that Jesus loves me. That Jesus loves me. I am so glad that Jesus loves me. Jesus loves even me. Shouldn't there be a note of wonder in that? A note of just worship that he would love me? I mean me, a sinner, me a low-down, rotten Hell-deserving, lost, undone individual. He loves me. Yeah. He loves me and loved me enough to go to Calvary for me to set me free from sin. What a wonder. He loves me. And if you're here not saved, know this. He loves you too. He shed his blood to save you. My friend, salvation doesn't come by belonging to the right church. Salvation comes through knowing the person of Jesus Christ. You need to be saved today. He'll save you. Maybe as a Christian, we get our horizons filled with a whole lot of things. Sometimes it's with the news of what's happening in the world. But I'll tell you, you need to get your horizon filled again with the person of Jesus Christ. Because he is our hope and our only hope. May the Lord help us to let him have his way, like we sang about as we started this meeting. Let him have his way with you. Would you stand with me, please, brother Alcamahair Hin?