Bibles please and turn to Philippians chapter 2. I'm going to read the text again in your hearing and invite you to stand with me as I do. And I'm going to read verses 9, 10, and 11. And I want you to notice what's emphasized in these three verses, please. Philippians chapter 2, verse 9, 10, and 11. Notice again, the Bible says, wherefore God also hath highly exalted him. And given him a name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, and things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth. And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. But you see the great emphasis here put on the name of the Lord, the name that's been given him The Lord helping me this morning, I want to preach about the name of Jesus. And you know, I appreciate the Lord ordering the song service around that very way. I know some of you think, well, Pastor sees Brother Dow every day and they sit down and talk about uh what they're going to he's going to preach and then what he's going to sing. Well, I gotta confess something to you. The first time I saw Mr. Dow this week was this morning when I spoke to him on the platform. And I had no clue what the Lord had put in his heart for us to sing, but God did. And he knew the text this morning, and I'm grateful for that. I'm grateful that God can put things together. Why? Because he's got something he wants to say. And we do well to heed that. I want you to hear something about the name of Jesus. Heavenly Father, we bow in your precious name. Thank you for the privilege to pray. Thank you for these that have gathered in this place. Lord, we realize that we're all here, not by accident. But Lord, you've got a purpose and plan. And you're doing things that, Lord, are beyond our understanding often. But how we pray this morning that you would do a great work in every heart. Help us to be faithful to the text. May the Lord Jesus be lifted up. We thank you already for the sweet reminders we've had of the greatness of the name of Jesus. Lord, we thank you for the special song as well that humbles our heart, that God, you would save a sinner like me We don't know why you would. Lord, never never will on this side of eternity. But we're thankful that you did. I may not know why, but I sure know that you did. And I thank you, God, for saving grace and mercy. Now, Lord, would you please have your will and way work in our hearts for your glory, and we'll praise you for it, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. Again, I want you to look at verse 10 especially. It says that at the name of Jesus. At the name of Jesus. You know, we often make a big deal out of names that are not nearly as important as this name. We make a big deal out of names. We talk about different names, maybe the names of personalities or the names of preachers. Or we talk about the names of doctrinal persuasions and so on. We make a lot of noise about all these names But as far as I can understand, as I read my Bible, there's only one name that really matters. It is the name of Jesus Christ. It's at that name the Bible says every kneel bow and every tongue will confess. Can I remind you this morning that the name of Jesus Is a divinely appointed name. It wasn't just a name chosen out of the air. The Bible teaches us that very clearly. You know, when you go to name your children , a lot of times there's significance behind those names. We talked with Sarah recently and said, what are you going to name this little boy? She said, not going to tell him by until he's born I said, all right. Just don't name him something weird, all right? Don't name him, you know Hal Jashaber, whatever that Isaiah, an old El Testament prophet name was. Just, you know, but let it be a normal name. Give him a normal name. And oftentimes, you know, we just choose names. People, I've heard all sorts of stories of how people got their name. But when Jesus was born, he was Given a name that didn't come from Joseph and didn't come from Mary, but it was a name that came from heaven. God said through the angel to Joseph, when it comes time to give him a name, here's what you call him. Thou shalt call his name Jesus. For he shall save his people from their sins. So he was given a heavenly appointed name. This isn't a name that just comes out of the blue. This is the name that comes from the Father in heaven. This is that name, that name of Jesus. Now you think about all of the songs. I was thinking about how many times Dr. Hitchens read at least three verses this morning in his reading of of in our studies that referenced in the name of Jesus or in the name of the Lord. How many scriptures speak of the great name of the Lord Jesus? There's a lot of them. How many songs, I've already mentioned this, but you stop and think about it, how many songs have been written about that name? Hundreds, thousands maybe. And they sing about that name, and every song gives you a little different insight to the name of Jesus. It gives you a little different look at the name of Jesus. Let's you see him in a whole different light. And yet you say, preacher, you know, we we have yet to really get a grasp On this Jesus that we sing so much about. I think one of the beauties of eternity is that we're still going to discover who He is. I think a lot of people think, well, when we get there, we'll get it all figured out. I I don't think so. We've got a God that's beyond figuring. He's greater than our comprehension. And the Lord Jesus is so wonderful that no matter how many songs you sing, no matter how many sermons you preach, How many sermons have been preached about the Lord Jesus? Hopefully most all of them. Sadly, some of them aren't. The truth of the matter is, I still feel like Charles Spurgeon did. Take your text where you may, but make your way to the cross. Get to the cross. Get to the person of Jesus Christ. He is the answer. And so here we see is it this name, it's been preached about, it's been sung about. And yet, how many books have been written about the name of the Lord Jesus? You think about all the books. If we could stack them up, they'd probably fill this auditorium and more if we put all the books together about the name of the Lord Jesus. But, dear friend, we have yet to exhaust the name. We have yet to get tired of hearing the name. We have yet to get to the end of all that there is to know about the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. But in this name, and again, I think the best way was written in an old hymn that said there's just something about that name. There is just something about that name. The name of the Lord Jesus is not a name that is powerless. It is not a name that leaves you indifferent. You're either for or against. It's not, you know, people talk about God all day long. And you know, in a man's mind, he can just sort of figure which God, his God, their God. It's generic in terms. But when you talk about Jesus, you're getting awful narrow. And when you talk about Jesus, you're getting awful specific. You're getting right to the to what really matters because, friend, Jesus is what really matters. There is something about the name of Jesus Christ. The devils in hell don't like it. They tremble over the mention of it. That name of the Lord Jesus, you remember uh, you know, when uh that that demon was cast out in the book of Acts and And and he said, I uh Paul I know, and this is the devil talking. He said, I know Paul, and I know this Jesus, but I don't know who you are. Well, I'm glad he knows who Jesus is. There's just something about the name of Jesus Christ. Don't think for a minute it's something that i is is just uh circumstantial or coincidental It's divinely appointed. It is that name that God said I'm going to make higher than all the other names. It's that name that I'm going to make so much of that it's the name That every knee is going to bow and every tongue is going to confess. It's a name. It's a name like no other. Dear friend, it ought to be a name that we set much store by. It ought to be a name that we put a lot of confidence in. It ought to be the name that we revere above all other names. We're talking about in Sunday school about using foul speech. And that name of Jesus. You know, we were over at the fair on a Friday, and uh after our opportunity to serve there We went and sat and watched the or started to watch the car smash, but it had a big thunderstorm. They t said we all had to leave. But we're sitting there and we're sitting in a whole group of young people. And if I heard one swear word, I bet I heard a hundred. And it was everywhere you went. I mean, it you we're talking about kids this big, kids this big We're talking about boys and girls. We're talking about old and young. We walked by one fella. He said a bad word. My wife said it very loudly. I don't know if she intended to or what. She said, you'd think a man that old would have more sense Than to use language like that. But it's use and and you know what he was doing? He was using the name of Jesus in a vulgar way. And I'm here to tell you, God's put much stock in that name. That name's not a swear word, church. That name's not something to be used in a vile way. That name is the name that God has given to His one, His only begotten, darling, blessed Son and our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, what a name, the name of Jesus. When you think about that name, I want to say briefly just a few short things about the name. Number one, I want you to notice that it is a name he earned. It is a name he earned. In verse nine, we start with the word wherefore. Wherefore? Now when you find a wherefore or a therefore in the Bible, you need to ask the question what it's there for and what it's time telling trying to tell you to do. It's telling you to go back and read more. Go back and see what this the reason that he's got a name like this. You know, have you ever worked with somebody that had a name? Their name preceded them They had a name, and you know, they might have been they might have been hard to work with. Remember the first job site I went to when I was a grease monkey and they said you're going to Shepherd's site. Shepard was the supervisor over that job site. They said he's like an old bulldog with a bad attitude. Well, he was. I'm out there trying to change oil in a D6 uh uh bulldozer and I'm laying under there and he comes up and he kicks my boots and he says, What are you doing? I said, I'm changing oil. Boss sent me out here. I'm the boss around here. You didn't ask me if you could stop that day. And boy, he lit into me. And he said, we don't change any oil around here until lunchtime. I said, well, when do I take my lunch? I don't care. You take your lunch whenever you take it. When we take our lunch, then you work. Boy, he is nasty. He's just like an old alley cat, you know, somebody stepped on his tail. Well, you know he had a name. Everybody knew that. Everybody knew that. You said his name, everybody's like, ooh. And you've all worked in places like that. You knew people that had a name. And that name went before them. That name is something that identified them Well, the Lord Jesus has a name that goes before him. He's done some things that identify him. He's done some things that say, hey, this is why my name is what it is. Go back with me, please. Verse 5 The Bible says, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Now it's about to tell us something about this man and about his name. who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. You know why he's got a name like this? He's got a name like this because though he was God, he became man. And though he became man, he did not cease to be God. And though he was man who became God and yet did not cease to be God, though he became man, he went to an old rugged cross and he died. He died according to the scriptures, the Bible says, for our sin. It was there this Lord Jesus, this Jesus that we're talking about that's got a name above every name. It is there that he suffered in my place, that he shed his blood for my sin. That he answered the final sacrifice of God, he became the provision for every man's great need, and that is for a Savior. That is this man, Jesus Christ. His act was an act of submission to the Father. We learn in the Garden of Gethsemane that the Bible records that he prayed these words, not my will, thine be done. His act was an act of significance. He said, I am the door in John chapter 10. But do you realize that the door was hung on the hinges of the cross? You know a door's no good if it don't have hinges. I mean it's kind of simple, but if these doors didn't have hinges and just stood in there and you went to push them, they'd fall over They've got to have something to swing on. And the Lord Jesus Christ hung on the cross of Calvary. And it was at the cross of Calvary, he was the door. He became the door to heaven and made a way for you and I to be saved. You see, he wasn't given this name just simply for no reason. He earned this great name. It is a name that has not been given to any other because there's no one else who could do what Jesus Christ did. A lot of good men have died for good causes. A lot of great men have died for great causes. But never has one died as God for man for sin. And then rose again the third day. Only Jesus Christ. And only Jesus Christ can provide a full and free salvation. And that's why he earned that name. What a name has been given to the Lord Jesus. You know, we get so silly about our religion. You know, I've heard people say, Well, bless God, I'm a Baptist. Well, I am too because the Bible has made me one. But I don't boast about being a Baptist. Because the Baptist didn't save me. Jesus did. And we talk about our well, you know, I heard a fellow saying , well, you know what, I'm Baptist born and Baptist bred, and when I die, I'll be Baptist dead. Well, the truth is he's probably dead already in his sin and trespasses if all he was was a Baptist. You can be a lot of things. You can be a Methodist, you can be a Presbyterian, you can be an Anglican. You can be all sorts of different things. Those titles are insignificant. Why? Because they don't register in heaven. What registers in heaven, name of Jesus? What is it that hits the Father's ear, the name of Jesus? What is it that's recognized by God our Father? Listen, what is the answer to man's sin? Who is it that paid the price? How can we enter in? We do so through this man named Jesus. Who suffered, bled, died, rose again, and lives forevermore. What a name, the name of Jesus. It is a name that's been earned by him. But secondly, I want you to notice something else. It is a name that has been exalted. The Bible says it. Wherefore? God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. Won't you notice that? He's highly exalted him. In other words, God's put that name way up here. And he said, I want everybody to see it and everybody to know it because this is the name. The name of the Savior. This is the name that's important. He's exalted Him, He's lifted that name up. Would you go back to Luke with me real quick and look at a few of these? I want you to notice something about this name. In Luke chapter number 24 , And Luke's account of the Great Commission, look what he says, verse number forty-six And he said, or excuse me, and said unto them , Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day. And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name. Among all nations beginning at Jerusalem, and you're witnesses of these things. Do you see that? That name? What do we preach? We preach the name of Jesus We preach the repentance and remission of sins in the name of Jesus. Listen, there is not a man on earth who can forgive your sin. Not one. A lot of dear people believe that somehow or another a man who calls himself a priest can absolve your sin. They believe that if they tell him about what they've done, that they can somehow or another get free from that sin. And that he has a way to do something about their sin. Can I tell you today they've been deceived? It's not true. It's not true. There's no man can do anything about your sin. Listen, there are many men who may want to do something about sin, but they can't do anything about sin. Let me ask you this: can you do anything about your sin? I mean, can you personally suffer enough to answer God's demand for your sin? Is there Is there something that you could do? And I know a lot, and that's what religion, really, religion is nothing more than man trying to do something to gain God's favor. All of it. I don't care what kind it is, you put all of it in one pot, it all boils down to the same thing. It's man trying to do something for God's favor. But friend, I've got news for you. There's nothing we can do. There's no remedy for sin in the efforts of man. I can go to church until I grow roots in my pew and can't get up. I can pray prayers until I can't breathe another word. I can light candles and rub rosaries and do all those things, and yet none of that has the power to remove my sin. But there is one who I can go to that has the answer. There is one that has provided a remedy for sin, and that is this man named Jesus. Isn't it interesting that there at his birth, that the angel mentioned the purpose of his coming? Thou shalt call his name Jesus, and he shall save his people from their sins. That's what he came for. We see that name is exalted. It's exalted to the place that it is the name that we preach. But not only that, would you look with me in the book of Acts? In Acts chapter number four, it's a name that has great, great power In Acts chapter 4, it's really the tail end of a story or of an account of the healing of a man who was lame, the impotent man. And in Acts chapter number three, Peter and John are on their way to the temple. They're going up there to pray And as they go to pray, there's that impotent man. He can't walk. He's unable to provide for himself, and he's crying out for some sort of charity. And Peter looks at him and says , Silver and gold have I none. You know, he said, We don't have any money for you. Probably they were in the same boat he was. We don't have any money to give you. Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have give I unto thee. Listen what he said, in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. And you know what happened? The Bible says he leapt up. He jumped up. And he went leaping and praising God. With those men into the temple. You know why? The name of Jesus has power. You notice Peter didn't say in the name of Peter Or in the name of John. He didn't say in the name of Baptist. He said in the name of Jesus. It was the power. Now, now we're we're after that, Acts chapter four, we're after that. They got in trouble for doing that. They're being accused of being rebel rousers and all of that. Acts chapter 4, verse 10, it says, Be it known unto you all and to all the people of Israel. That by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole. He's the one that did it. You know what they're saying? He's the one that did it. He's the one that healed him. It's this man named Jesus. It's this one that's got wonderful power. You know, we were learning about the the prayer of faith this morning about how God does heal. And it is God who heals. It's not the not the ones who pray, not the ones that, you know, the faith healers we talked about, which are not really faith healers. The reality is it's the Lord that heals. And He did for this man. I mean God did this. And I love what Peter did. Peter could have taken some credit. Peter could have said, Well, you know the Lord did this, but he did it through my hand. Peter could have sort of tried to take a little smidgen of credit and said, you know, the Lord healed him, but you know, he grabbed my hand first. He didn't do that, did he? He said, I want you all to know. I want you all to know. He said, I want you to know that in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth It's his name, it's his power, it's his person. This is the one who healed this man. What a name, the name of Jesus. But you know he don't stop there because it don't end there. He says this, this is the stone, verse 11, Acts 4. which was set at naught of you builders, which has become the head of the corner. Neither is there salvation in any other. Please hear this now, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. There's just none other name. Now, friend, please hear me. If you're trusting anything other than Jesus alone You're going to be sorely disappointed. You might be trusting in in a hundred other things. I mean, we could make a list and stay here the rest of the afternoon. But if you're trusting anything other than Jesus, there will come a day you'll be sorely disappointed. I love the old hymn that says, My faith has found a resting place. It has. Long time I struggled with that. I my I wanted to put my faith in my emotions. And I found out my emotions are like the tides of the sea. They rise and fall. I wanted to put my faith in my experience, but you know, my experience was so different than everybody else's experience, and everybody has their own experience. And none of that seemed to give me no footing, no ground. But my faith has found a resting place not in device nor creed. I trust the ever-living one, his wounds for me shall plead. I need no other argument. I need no other plea. Listen to this. It is enough that Jesus died and that he died for me. Dear friend, there's only one place where you can find salvation. It's in the finished work of Jesus Christ on the mighty cross of Calvary. He's the Savior of man's soul. When a man comes to die, he'll not take comfort in his religious affiliation. When it comes time to make the crossing, what you did or what position you held or what people thought about you, not going to matter at all. It's not going to matter where your name's written in some little church house as far as membership. But what is going to matter, have you believed on the Lord Jesus Christ to the saving of your soul? Is your trust in him? If your trust is in him, you can fill it your head well. You can rest in firm confidence. You see, it strips us of all of our confidence except in Jesus Christ. I'm left not saying, now, Lord, I'm holding on. No, oh my. If if it was up to me. Yeah. To hold on. My wife and I were walking in this park and they had all these exercises you could do And I remember back in second grade we used to do the Presidential Fitness Award. You remember you you could climb, you had to climb that rope that went 30 foot up in the air? And you had a mat about that thick to fall on. So that's why some of us are a little special these days. But I can I can remember, you know, climbing and And lifting myself and all of that. And they had one of these things where you could do the arm walk, you lift your body up and walk. I said, I wonder if I can do that. And I've not tried that in a long time. And we come to it and I said, Well, I'm going to try it. And so with great effort I got myself up. But then when I went to move, I realized I ain't moving all this stuff. Not by myself. I'm going to need some help You know, I did not have the strength at that point. I'm working on it, Lord help me. But I did not, I could not walk myself across through there like I had done so many years ago I'm just telling you, dear friend, you don't have the wherewithal to hold yourself up when it comes time to make the crossing. It's not going to be in your feeble arms of strength. It's in the mighty hand of God. He's the one who's holding you and will carry you across. At the name of Jesus. What a name. There's no other name given among men whereby we must be saved. In vain you will search. In vain men look to religion, they look to religious leaders. They trust in in the spiritual gurus and they say, surely there'll be hope in them, but my dear friend, all of them lie in their grave. All of them have died like you'll die. None of them have come out the other side of the grave except for Jesus Christ. And he on that third and appointed morning got up and he lives, and he lives this very day. My faith this morning is not in some dead religious relic. You know, you remember when they found what they thought was um uh the shroud that covered the body of Jesus, they thought, and man, they got all excited and People get excited when they find some bones of some dead saint and find some relic of ancient days. I'm glad I'm not looking for that. I'm glad this morning that I'm not looking for a bone or a relic or something of where he was. I can talk to him, he hears me. I can cry out to him and know that he hears my prayer. Why? Because he's alive and he's well. Thank God for a living Savior. He's exalted. And let me close with this thought. He will be enshrined. He will be enshrined. Notice what it says, verse 10, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. Things in heaven, things in earth, things under the earth. And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Do you realize this is an actual event? This isn't mystical. There's going to be a day. There's coming a day. I don't know when it'll be, I know it's out yonder somewhere. It's in the future I know this is a future event. I personally believe. This is just my personal belief. I can't say now I can take you the exact chapter and verse. But I believe it's going to be at the end of all things. I mean at the end of all things. At the very end of all things, after the revelation, as we're studying, after all of that is fulfilled, after everything God said He was going to do is done. Then there's going to come this great moment in time. And it's going to be the ending of all time. And it's going to be at that moment, at that moment, think about this, every knee will bow. Every knee. Every saved me, every lost me. Every demon knee, every angel me. Every animal knee, every every creature, everything in heaven, everything in earth, everything is going to bow. Everything Nothing is going to be excluded. Not one gnat 's going to get away with not bowing. Everything is going to bow. Everything's going to lower its head. You say, I don't believe that. Well Lord help you. God 's creatures have often more sense than God's people. They tell me in the Welsh Revival that in one of the mines God came in that mine. And those miners lay on their face and began to cry out, God have mercy and save us. And they said that when that passed, in other words, when they got right with God, they turned around And those little pit ponies that pulled that coal out of the earth had their little heads bowed to the earth. They had their heads down. Now we're talking about animals that were abused and were used hard, and they were often wild and they were mean, and these men had to handle them and did handle them roughly. But they said when God came, it seemed like even the little ponies knew that their creator was there. And I'm here to tell you, we've got such a God that even the animals of the earth are going to know He's Lord And they're going to bow. Everything, everything, everything is going to bow. Every tongue is going to confess. Every tongue is going to confess. Every mouth is going to say these words. He's Lord. Jesus is Lord. It's going every tongue, the devil's tongue, the demon's tongue, the angel's tongue, the saved tongue, the lost tongue. Every tongue is going to say, He's Lord. This outfit that says I'll never bow. You end up, hey, we're going to find out we get toward the end of Revelation. You see men doing this with God They don't repent. They're in anger. They're mad. They've got their fists raised. They're in rebellion. There's a hatred boiling in their heart that comes from hell below. And they're saying, we will not bow to you. We will not bend to you. And dear friend, every one of those who have that heart, who have that spirit, who have that attitude, you know what they'll do? They'll confess. They'll confess. Years ago when God first called me to preach, I just had a desire in me to preach. I couldn't explain it. I mean, I I didn't have any opportunities. I remember saying to the preacher, my pastor, I said, Pastor, I believe the Lord wants me to preach. He said, Well, go preach. I said, Where? He said, just go somewhere. And so we'd preach on the street corner and campgrounds, and my my my girlfriend then, she's gonna be my wife. uh lived over next to a truck stop and I thought, man, uh you know how many guys roll in and out of there? And so I bought me a C B radio and put it in the car And I'd set up on the hill where they couldn't see me, because I didn't want them to find me and whoop me, you know. So I set up on the hill and I tuned into the main channel and I'd preach Jesus real quick and then I'd say, meet me over at channel four if you want to talk more And I remember some fellas, there was one trucker in particular, man, he skinned me alive. This was back when old Baker, Jim Baker did what he did. And that he was making fun of all preachers and just being nasty and all of them were laughing back and forth on the radio. And and boy, God just put something in my heart. And I said, Sir, listen. You may not bow your knee and confess today, but one day on the hot pavement of hell, you will do it. And you talk about silence. Now for the radio to have silence, that's unusual. Because there are always somebody on there jammering talking. And just like that there was silence. I turned over to that channel I'd mentioned, and here in a few moments. Actually, it's a fair while. He must have been quite a ways down the road. He came back on. He said, Preacher man, you there? I said, Yes, sir. He said, I want to apologize to you. He said, I've been raised better than that. He said, I got an old godly grandmother that prays for me. He said, I know I'm a heathen and I need to be saved, but he said, I just want you to know I'm sorry and I want you to pray for me. Now I don't know whatever happened to that man. But I kind of like to think, Brother Charlie, one day I'm going to see him in heaven. One day that man's going to somewhere down the road, maybe he bowed the knee and called on the Lord Jesus Christ. But here's what I do know. Whether he bows there, he will bow there. Whether he bowed back then, listen, if he did or did not, it doesn't matter. Every knee will bow. Every tongue will confess That Jesus is Lord. Notice this, to the glory of God the Father. Do you know what a moment that's going to be? Can you imagine that glory I man, I wish I had time. I don't know how it gets by so quick anymore. But I wish I had time to talk about that glory. Do you know what glory is going to fill the earth? What glory is going to flood heaven? When everything that has breath, everything that speaks, everything that communicates says He's Lord, He's Lord, every angel, demon, devil The whole thing, listen, everyone confesses he is Lord. It's going listen, there's going to be glory like mighty thunder rolls that'll go over heaven as God gets the glory for the fact that Jesus Christ is Lord. Now the truth is, you will bow here or there. And only one, only one, is going to make a difference in your eternity. Listen to John 3. 18, and I'm through. He that believeth on him, that's Jesus, is not condemned. But he that believeth not is condemned already because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. Friend, what have you done with his name? What have you done with his name? Have you? Now listen, have you believed on the name of the only begotten Son of God? Have you? If you have on the authority of scriptures, you're not condemned. You're forgiven. Preacher, I just I don't know. I I don't feel this or I don't feel that. And that's not what it says. It says, he that believeth is not condemned. The authority of the Scripture gives me the assurance that I'm forgiven. I'm not condemned. My old heart might condemn me. My old friends might condemn me. That old crowd that used to run with, they'll condemn me. Maybe even some Christians will condemn me But listen, if you believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, on him in a saving way, you are not condemned on the authority of this blessed book. But on the same authority, he that believeth not is condemned already. Here's the reason. You've not believed on the name of the only begotten. Son of God. You know people think, well, if I don't quit smoking, I'm gonna go to hell. No. Somebody said you might smell like you've been there, but it ain't gonna take you there Not smoking gonna take you to hell. Well, if I don't quit drinking, I'm gonna uh it's gonna take me to hell. It'll it'll hasten the day But it's not taking you to hell. I'll tell you what's taking you to hell. Not believing on the name of the only begotten Son of God. Precious friend. Don't cast off too quick the name of Jesus Christ. Forget Maranatha, forget our name, forget my name, forget everybody else's name. Better take this name with you. This is that name whereby you can be saved. And if you're not saved today, friend, I highly encourage you. To turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. Call on that name that's above every name. And trust Him to be your Savior. It it 's it's something you'll never regret. Never regret. I told somebody two weeks ago, I said you'll never regret Trust in Christ. You'll never regret it. You'll regret not living for Him. You'll regret the life you had before. But you'll never regret trusting on the Lord Jesus Christ. Put your confidence in Him. You'll never regret that. You can do that before you leave here this morning. In fact, I urge you to. You may be saved, and my friend, you've been unfaithful to that name. See, the Bible says we're married to Christ. Hudson Taylor said, compared to that, Hedman Hale are mere incidentals. That's what he said. We're married to Christ. We're his bride. You've been faithful to that name? That precious name? God help us to be a people who are loyal to the precious name of Jesus. His name is the name that matters. Are you right with him? Are you saved? Dear friend, what have you done with the name of the Lord Jesus? Let's bow our heads together, Brother Daniel.