I want you to take your Bible, please, and turn with me to the book of Revelation, the very last book of the New Testament. And normally we stand and honor the reading of God's Word, but I want to read this whole chapter, and I want you to pay close attention to what's being read. So if you'll just remain seated, we'll read this whole chapter together. Revelation one. The Bible says, beginning in Revelation 1, verse 1 The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him to show unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass. And he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John, who bare record of the word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ. and of all things that he saw. Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy And keep those things which are written therein, for the time is at hand. John to the seven churches which are in Asia. Grace be unto you, and peace from him which is, and which was, and which is to come, and from the seven spirits which are before his throne. And from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten of the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth Unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood, and hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father. To him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen. Behold, he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him. And they also which pierce him, and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him. Even so, amen. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is and which was and which is to come the Almighty. I, John, who also am your brother and companion in tribulation, and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ. was in the isle that is called Patmos for the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day And heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet, saying, I'm Alpha and Omega, the first and the last. And what thou seest, write in a book, and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia, unto Ephesus and unto Smyrna. and unto Pergamus and unto Thy Tyra and unto Sardis and unto Philadelphia and unto Laodicea. And I turned to see the voice that spake with me. And being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks. And in the midst of the seven candlesticks, one like unto the Son of Man clothed with a garment down to the foot, and gird about the paps with a golden girdle. His head and his hairs were white like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes were as a flame of fire. And his feet like undefined brass, as if they burned in a furnace, and his voice as the sound of many waters. And he had in his right hand seven stars. And out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword. And his countenance was as the sun shineth in his strength. And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. He laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not, I am the first and the last. I am he that liveth and was dead, and behold, I'm alive forevermore. Amen. And have the keys of hell and of death. Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter. The mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in my right hand and the seven golden candlesticks The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches. I want us to begin at least looking at this chapter. Oftentimes when revelation is called out, we mispronounce it and call it revelations. But if you'll notice that the word is actually revelation, it's a singular revelation. It's a singular revelation because it's a revelation of a single person. That is the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want you to see that emphasized throughout this first chapter. But let's pray and then we'll begin. Father, do help us now. We're so grateful for the privilege that we have to gather and open our Bibles and hearts. We're asking, Lord, for these few moments she'll separate us from the cares of life and the distractions of the moment. And Lord, just turn our eyes upon you. Help us to hear from heaven. Lord, we ask that you would endure us with power from on high. Lord, for both the hearer and the preacher need help. And I ask you, dear Lord, that you would grant it. Now, Father, for all that you do, we'll be careful to give you the glory, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Well, as we begin this study, I feel like I need to do so with a caution. Um I heard someone recently, and I forget who it was, but they said when they first got saved that they started reading Revelation. And certainly, I don't know that that is the best book for a newborn Christian to begin reading. But nevertheless, I believe there are some cautions, some bewares that we need to address before we go through this particular book. I want to begin with this one because we're awful quick to do it. I want us to beware of dogmatism. I want us to be aware of dogmatism. He said, What do you mean? I mean being dogmatic about that which the Bible is not. Now, I 'm convinced and persuaded about some things, but I recognize that with prophecy, some things are just not clear. And we've got to be careful as we study this particular book that we don't get right right dogmatic about these things. Uh many of these things. Now there are many things we can be dogmatic about, but I'm talking about those things that are still in that realm of the fully revealed. Those things that God just shows us a little glimpse of things to come. So just beware of dogmatism. Let me say we also need to beware of uh of allegorism or or turning this into just an allegory. And I mean by that either dismissing a literal interpretation or delving into something mystical that God never intended for his word. I believe the Bible ought to be interpreted in a literal sense when literal sense makes sense. And much of the Bible can be literally interpreted. When the Lord talks about his people returning on the white horses, I personally believe it's a literal A literal interpretation that will return on those white horses. Um my pastor used to be criticized. He had a radio program. I I worked for a man one time and he said, I don't know why sexton's so caught up about riding those white horses. Don't he know that's just imagery? I said, well, sir, I don't know that you know that the Bible is to be interpreted in a literal fashion. And if the Bible makes literal sense, then we're to seek no other sense. And so there's much of this book that It's very literal and we we need to take it in that fashion. Even though it defies our understanding. It may be beyond something I can comprehend, but But but again, uh what what kind of God could you fully comprehend? I don't want a God I can fully comprehend. I'm grateful that the God of heaven defies my comprehension and goes beyond my ability to wrap my little head around. And then let me just say this lastly as far as our introduction here, beware of futurism You say, what do you mean by that? An unhealthy fascination with things to come Much of prophecy is veiled to our understanding. Our Lord said this: you'll know the day In the sense that you'll know we're in that time. We're in that season. Be careful about getting so caught up in trying to identify uh, you know, who the the beast and the false prophet are and putting names on the uh on the man of sin and and and and and and setting dates. I heard just recently there's a new outfit. They've set a new date And they they said they'd gone back through the Jewish calendar and 2026 is the year. I believe it's May, May something of twenty twenty-six. And you know what they've done? They've they've they've gotten caught up in futurism. They've got an unhealthy fascination with things to come. My Lord only gave us a a small glimpse of things to come. Why? Because our responsibility is to live today for the Lord Jesus as if he's coming back today. And so if we live looking simply for those future things, we'll miss the whole point of of our living for the Lord Jesus. It's awful easy to get caught up, and let me just caution us. This is one study or one realm of study that can derail folks in a hurry. I have watched over the years people get fascinated with prophecy, and it becomes fatal to their spiritual well-being. Because it's all they live on, it's all they think about, it's all they study, it's all they're considering. And my friend, listen, you can't live on prophecy. We live on the Lord Jesus Christ. And anything, whether it be prophecy or anything else that takes his place in your life, it is wrong. And will hurt us spiritually. So let's begin our study. I believe there are three words, and I want to give you the three words that describe this chapter. First word, revelation. It's right there in the text. The revelation of Jesus Christ. In verses 1 to 3, we have a revelation. We have that revelation that is intended for us to see. And you say, preacher, what is a revelation? Know this. A revelation is the making known of what was previously unknown. A revelation is a work of God. The Bible is a book of revelation, not just Revelation, the book Revelation. But the entire Bible is a revelation. It's God telling me things I would not know if God didn't tell me. We've got a revelation about creation, don't we? In the beginning, God what? God created We're not left in the dark as to how things began. We don't have to consult the uh geological layers of the earth and speculate just exactly how it all happened We don't have to test the gases in the atmosphere to see exactly what it was that came together. We have a revelation. The revelation is God created. We have a revelation concerning salvation. We're not left to wonder and doubt and try to figure it out how to get to heaven. It's not up to us to speculate and surmise. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And no man cometh unto the Father but by me. We have a revelation of salvation. Friend, you and I would not know the good news had God not revealed it on the pages of his word. He didn't write it in the stars, he didn't put it in the mouth of the birds, he put it in the blessed old Bible. And he reveals to us that salvation is by grace through faith, and that Jesus Christ is the Savior. We have a revelation about that. But we have a revelation also here about things to come. And so the revelation is the first word. Number two, there's a declaration. A declaration. That's found in verses four to eight. So verses 4 to 8 deal with a declaration, and that declaration is an announcement of truth, if you will, a stating of the facts. And uh what we have in those verses is simply uh the the declaring of what is true. And I I want us to see those things because uh I'm grateful that that I have a source That I can go to that is absolutely reliable. A source of truth. Folks, we're not looking for truth in the sense that we don't know where it can be found. The truth is not in the cosmos somewhere The truth is in the precious Word of God. Here's the declaration of truth. And as we study its pages, we learn the truth. By the way, the truth Is not just simply uh relative to your situation. This isn't my truth. This isn't your truth. This is God's truth. And uh i as God's truth, I I've got to respond to it in the way. Remember those Berean Christians, they were noble Much more noble than the crowd at Thessalonica because they received the word for what it was. They received it as the word of God. They took that Bible or the truth that was being declared and they recognized this is God. This is the communication of God. to my soul. Folks, let me say this. This Bible is free of the opinions of man. Now men may have opinions about it, but the but the Bible itself is free from the opinions of man. I don't hold in my hand a collection of ideas come up with by smart religious men. I have the inspired Word of God. God gave us his word. And so that truth, that declaration or statement of truth, we find that in verses 4 to 8. And then the largest part of this chapter deals with a manifestation. So we have a revelation, which is the making known of what was previously unknown. A declaration, a declaring of truth or the stating of facts. But from verses nine down to the very end of the chapter Is a manifestation, and a manifestation is the revealing of one to another. And that's exactly what the Lord Jesus did He revealed himself to John on the Isle of Patmos. There was a manifestation. You see, the revelation is critical. For without the revelation, we're left in the dark. The declaration is important, for without the declaration, we have no knowledge of the truth. But the manifestation is equally important because God is not a theory to believe, but a man to know. He's not just someone that we uh learn facts about, he's someone we have fellowship with. The Lord is not someone that we just simply mark as a doctrine on the parts of our our constitution or whatever and and say that we believe in the doctrine of Jesus Christ. He is the dearest friend, like the choir was singing about, that you and I could ever have. He's someone we can know and have sweet fellowship with. And there he comes and he manifests himself to John. I'm praying as we study this chapter, I'm praying as we study this book. I'm praying as we gather as God's people that we'll have more than just revelation from the Word. That we'll have more than just declaration of truth, but that there will be manifestation of the Lord. Jesus taught us that when he went to the Father that one of the ministries of the Spirit of God would be to make himself known to you and I. That's not mysticism, that's Biblicism. That's the Bible teaching. You can know God in a personal way. He's not just dead letters on a page. He's the living Lord of glory. You have fellowship and I can have fellowship. May the Lord help us to do that. Well let's quickly go back and try to at least begin this chapter tonight, and let's look at the revelation. You see that in verses 1 to 3. The Bible begins this way, the revelation of Jesus Christ. And I want to pause there and say, here is a person. As we consider the revelation, it's the revelation of a person. I believe that there's a key to every book of the Bible. When you study the Bible, look for the key. It's like it's like getting in the house. You gotta have a key to get in the house. And so there's a key in every book. There's a key in every chapter, and that key will unlock the door. I was telling somebody last week Uh when we first got married, uh I didn't use the key to get in the door. We lived in a fifties model, one of them early mobile homes. I think it was twelve by fifty something, we little thing. You had to go outside to change your mind. It was that small. But uh I didn't carry a key because it had those those louvered windows on the door. And so all I had to do is just push that window up like that, run my hand around through, unlock the door and go in. I did that all the time. I'd leave at about 2. 30 and and uh I got up to the to the barn and I felt in my coveralls and I had forgotten my cookies Now look, you don't work without your cookies. Amen. And I thought, what I what am I going to dip in the milk? I don't have a cookie in my pocket And so I got everything going and the milkers were cleaning themselves and circulating, and I run back home real quick, just lived at the bottom of the hill. And uh I started opening that window and to reach my hand in, and then I realized I heard something. It was a sound I was very familiar with. It was the rounding, i it was the putting of a bullet in the chamber of a pistol. And I thought, what is that? And then I remembered, oh, I'm married now She don't know I don't carry keys. And so I immediately hit my knees and I was yelling, Hey it's me, it's me, like she knew who me was But anyway, I was so scared I thought, man, I'm going to get a bullet on the first week of my married life. I mean, from my wife. How's she going to explain this? I had a key. It was my hand. I'm not talking about a key that circumvents all keys. I'm talking about a key that'll open this book to you. If you'll go to the revelation with this key in your hand, you'll understand it a whole lot better. This is, let me say this, this is not the revelation of Antichrist. Though he's in here. It's not the the revelation of the tribulation period, though it's in here. It's not a revelation of all of the unusual and different things that are going to come on this earth, though there's a lot of things that are described in Revelation that are almost terrifying to consider that are going to happen on this earth. It is a revelation of Jesus Christ. It's like following something here, and we're coming to a crescendo. What's the crescendo? It's the unfolding or the unveiling of the person of Jesus Christ Who is, who was, who is to come, the Almighty God. It's a revelation of Jesus Christ. I want you to notice quickly the purpose that's stated here. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him to show unto his servants, things which must shortly come to pass. And I want you to notice the urgency here in the language. He's saying, John, I I'm I'm giving you some revelation, I'm giving you some information about things that are going to come to pass, and they must shortly come to pass. You say, preacher, it's been 2,000 years. That's not shortly You've got to remember that God operates in a realm that you and I do not understand. He teaches us his his and I don't believe this is a a i exact and definitive uh definition of his timing, but he tells us a day is a thousand years, a thousand years is a day He's not bound by this little 24-7 thing that you and I are locked into. And in the eyes of God, this must shortly come to pass. And it will shortly come to pass. And so the purpose of the revelation is first to show the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And then to show the program of God as everything, and I want you to see this, that end times ought to be viewed from this point of view, that everything is leading to the unveiling of the Lord Jesus. Everything is walking in that direction. It's all about the day when every eye shall see him, and every eye will acknowledge. There he is. Every tongue is going to confess. All are going to recognize he is the Lord God Almighty. That's where it's going. That's where we're going. By the way, that's where we're going tonight That's where we're living right now. You say, what's happening? God's getting this thing ready for the unveiling. Hey, when you go to a wedding Nobody cares when the groom walks in. You ever notice that? There's no special mute. You just go for and stand. You stand by the preacher. Nobody cares about that. That's not what you're there for. And and and when the uh groomsman come in as well, that's not a big deal, bridesmaid, all that, what does everybody do when the that special Key is struck. They turn and look. The bride's coming in. Center of attention. Can I remind you that the coming of the Lord Jesus, he's the center of attention? It's not about all of the little speculative details surrounding it. It's about the revelation of the person of Jesus Christ when he's unveiled in this old dark world. My what a day that's going to be. When every eye sees him and every tongue confesses and every ear hears his praises, what a day it's going to be when King Jesus rules and reigns. I say, even so come quickly. Come quickly, dear Lord Jesus. I see the purpose. Then I want you to notice the penman, because he's not passed over, and we need not pass him over either. You see here The Bible says he sent verse one and signified it by his angel unto his servant John. Who bear record of the Word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ and of all things that he saw. This penman is John the beloved, John the Apostle, John who laid his head on Jesus' bosom. That dear man who was so near to the Lord. And I find it interesting that it was this man God chose to reveal these things too. Perhaps it was the proximity of his person to the Lord Jesus that made him a candidate to carry such a special message. Maybe it's because he lives so near. But nevertheless, he's that penman. He's the human agent God chose to communicate through. And we'll notice that as he is allowed this privilege, You read down just quickly verse 17. When I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. John was no special individual outside of the had the call of God, he was an apostle. He didn't come down from heaven. He was born on this earth like you and me. And when he saw the Lord, he did whatever mortal man has ever done. He fell down dead, felt like he was dead at his feet. Friend, know this the majesty of God defies your imagination. The majesty of God. When you come in his presence , When you come before him, this is not going to be a light-hearted matter. Nobody's gonna walk up and shake his hand. I heard an old song one time that said that. I thought, how silly. You you we don't even treat dignitaries of the earth that way. You don't slap the president on the back and shake his hand and say, How are you doing, buddy? You reverence his position. You recognize that place. How much greater it's going to be when we see the God of glory. When John saw him in all of his majesty, his hair white, his wool, his Eyes of flaming fire, his feet like burnished brass. When John saw all that, he got down on his feet like a dead man and laid before him, and God had to touch him and tell him not to be afraid and lift him up He was in the presence of the one who's altogether lovely. And can I say to you, dear friend, that one of these days, if you're saved by the grace of God, you're going to be in that same presence? You're going to see that same person. I don't know that we might have that same reaction or that same response as we see him for who he is. Oh my, what a revelation and how a privileged this dear penman was. But then I want you to see the promise in the closing part of this first section. Blessed is he that readeth. And they that hear the words of this prophecy. And keep those things which are written therein, for the time is at hand. There it is again, the urgency. Time is at hand. This is the most unique book in your whole Bible because it's the only book in the Bible that gives this promise. Now, all scriptures given be inspiration of God. We know that. All scriptures profitable for doctrine, for correction, for instruction, for reproof. We know all of all scripture, the entirety of the scriptures, the Word of God. But there's a special blessing and promise attached to the reading of the Revelation. He says that blessed is he that readeth and hears the words of this prophecy, and keeps those things which are written therein. There's a special blessing. And I'm trusting God for that as we study. That there'll be a special blessing. And I I you say, what's that blessing? I don't know. The Bible doesn't tell me. But it does tell me there's a blessing. There's an attached blessing to this particular book of the Bible. I want you to notice as we move away from the revelation that Jesus Christ is the key to the whole thing. If you study this book for simple end time knowledge, you miss the whole purpose. If you study this book just to Strengthen your argument in the position that you take about last days. You've missed the whole purpose If you study this book, my friend, to find out who the Antichrist is, or to find out who the false prophet is, or to find out all of this information and to simply just sort of stock and store Your mind with information, you miss the whole thing. It's a revelation of Jesus Christ. And Jesus wants you to meet him on the pages of this book. And he wants me to meet him there and meet him for the majestic Almighty God that he is. Oh, may the Lord help us to do that. But let's quickly look at the declaration. In verses 4 to 8, again, we have a declaration and it starts like the revelation. It starts with a person. Look at it. Verse 4. John to the seven churches which are in Asia. Grace be unto you. Peace from him. From him. Don't miss that. Him which is. And which was and which is to come, and from the seven spirits which are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ Who is the faithful witness and the first begotten of the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth, unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood. He's revealing, he's declaring the person of the Lord Jesus. Now, I hope you'll get this, and I'm going to try to emphasize it the Lord helping me all through this book, there's this constant emphasis or spotlight put on the person of Jesus Christ. You don't go hardly a chapter or a verse without the attention being, look over here, look at Jesus. Look at who he is. Look at how great he is. Look at his glory. John John says he's the one that is. I'm glad he is, aren't you? He is. That means he's not out of business. He is. He's the I am. He was. I'm glad he was. But he always was. And then John said he is to come. So there's never going to be a time that he is not. Thank God for that. That's who the Lord Jesus is. He's the faithful witness. I like this, the first begotten of the dead He's the great conqueror of death. He's the great deliverer from the fear of death. He's the one who emptied the tomb, my friend. He's the first begotten of the dead. And then he's the Prince of the Kings of the earth. By the way, you're going to be introduced to some pretty powerful kings. There's some pretty powerful individuals going to walk on the seams and the sands of time. There's some great powers that are going to come to be. There's going to be some individuals who will be raised up that are going to lead. The man of sin is going to be a very strong man. But there's a prince over him. There's a prince of the kings of the earth, and his name is the Lord Jesus Christ. That thrills me. That thrills me because the devil wants you to think that the great men of the earth got everything in their control. No, they don't. There is a God in heaven who sits on the throne. And he's still in charge. He's the Prince of the Kings of the earth. I not only want you to see the person, but then I want you to see the position. Because he talks about what he does for the saved. He says unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood, and hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father. What is the position? This is a position of authority and accessibility. This is what grace does in the redeemed. God does a work when he saved you. Friend, listen, when he saved you, the Bible says that he made you a king and a priest He washed you from your sin. He cleansed you by his blood. He's removed them as far as the east is from the west And then He's given you that place of authority and He's given you that place of accessibility. You can come to the throne of grace like any priest in the Old Testament could approach God. You can approach God through the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. What a position we hold. Isn't it strange that the world looks down on God's little children? I still hear Dr. Sexton in heaven now, but he would say, don't look at me like I'm peddling pole cat hides Translation, that's a skunk. He said, Don't feel sorry for me because I'm saved. I am part of the royal aristocracy of the skies. We're kings and priests. That's the work of grace. That's the work of God. God's done that for you And what a position the Lord has elevated his little children. Isn't it encouraging that out here's John on the Isle of Patmos, exiled from all of his friends? friends and fellowship and he's left alone and being punished for his testimony and yet gr he's still being reminded. I I may be exiled and off scouring of the earth to most people But God has made me a king and a priest. By the way, you are not what this world thinks you are. You are what God says you are. This world don't have much good thoughts about Christians, and some Christians don't help them in their thinking. But the truth of the matter is we are what God's made us. Listen, friend, you're not what your sin did to you. Or what you did in your sin. It's not what you are. You a a lot of people don't ever get over what God put under the blood of Jesus Christ. You're not what you used to be. If you're saved by the grace of God, that's under the blood. That's in the past. Man may not get it out of his eyes, but God already has. And what matters is he gave you a position as a king and a priest in the eyes of the Lord. Isn't that grace and mercy? No wonder John goes on and says this To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. John had to shout at his own preaching here. He had to praise the Lord for these great things that God had done. We see the declaration not only of a person of a position but of a purpose. The Bible says in verse number seven here that behold he cometh with clouds. Note this, and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him, and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him, even so. Amen. We're talking about here, John, you know what he does? He goes to the end of the book. How many of you are like me? When you read a book, you read the last chapter first. I do. I don't like to be held in suspense. I want to know how this thing's gonna wind up. To see if it's worth the investment of time to read the whole thing. And so I'll immediately go to the end and I'll read it and I'll try to figure out what the conclusion is. And that's what John does here. He goes to the conclusion. He comes and fast forwards to the end of the age and says, Every eye is going to see him. Here's the purpose of the book of the Revelation. It's to show us the unveiling of the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. To all of the earth, and they'll see him, and the Bible says they'll wail because of him. Lost man may mock him now, but they won't do that forever. This unsaved world may minimize the reality of Jesus Christ. They won't do it forever. And I don't say that with any joy. But I say it with the reality that it's cut there's coming a day. There's coming a day when the God haters and God deniers and the mock the mockers and despisers are going to wail because of it. They're gonna why are they wailing? Because their fate is sealed. Because their fate is sealed. Because they've recognized He's ruling, He's reigning. Our rebellion was to no avail. Our rising up in arms is not going to stop him. Fancy man thinking he can dethrone God. But men think they can do it. We're increasingly becoming a culture that thinks that we're getting up there close to the level of God. And we think somehow or another we're going to dethrone him. And listen, there's going to be a multitude that will gather around the man of sin, and they'll be ready to make war against the Lamb. And they believe that they are going to be able to dethrone God. But the God of heaven is going to speak a word like he did in creation, and he's going to annihilate the enemy in a moment of time. Because he is the Lord. Oh dear friend, I want you to see finally here in the declaration the preeminence in verse 8. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is, which was, which is to come, look at that, the Almighty. Oh, how preeminent our dear Lord is. The overarching truth throughout the entire book of Revelation. The overarching reality through every scene that unfolds, whether it's on earth in the church, or whether it's during that great tribulation, or whether it's at the end of the age The overarching truth that he that was and is and is to come is still Almighty No matter how powerful the man of sin is, no matter what the devil is permitted to do, he's still Almighty. He's the Almighty God. He that means he's on the throne and in charge and giving orders He's the one that everything moves at his beck and call. Even during that awful time upon earth, he's still the Almighty. I believe with all my heart that up in heaven we're going to be with the Lord, and as these scenes unfold, the worship of the saints are going to give glory to God who's in control while chaos seems to reign. But listen to me, friend, regardless of the circumstances of time, he remains the Almighty. And we need to see that. I need to see that. You need to see that in our daily lives. The unraveling of events, the messing up of plans, the circumstances that are unwanted. Do not remove him from the position of Almighty. He is the Almighty. I want to give you this and then I'll close. The challenge in a study like this is not to drown us, you know. But I I I want to help us and I want it to be a great help to us. But can I just give you quickly the points of the manifestation here in verses nine to twenty? I want you to notice Patmas first in verse nine That little secluded island in the Aegean Sea. It was where John was exiled by the Roman Emperor. He was put there, he says, for his testimony. They wanted to silence him, and so rather than kill him, they thought they'd just ship him out. Isn't it interesting that a place of punishment become a little paradise for John? It's where God came and said, John, I got something for you. John Bunyan spent a collective of nineteen, I believe it was, years in Bedford jail. In and out and off and on. I think his longest term was something like seven years. But Bunyan said that in that prison God made it a palace. Because it was there he made himself known. He wrote that little book that they mocked and said, You're such a fool. That little book called Pilgrim's Progress, that by the way, next to the Bible is the is the is the second most sold book and published book and read book. On the planet. And that man might have looked like a fool to the people of his day, but he was God's prince. And he was a messenger bringing something from heaven. And here John's much the same way. John's in exile. He's there on the Isle of Patmos, they're saying, What a what a fool you are, John. Just Just deny his name and we'll bring you back to civilization. Friend, he had something better than civilization. He had the Lord Jesus Christ. So he's there in Patmos. He gets personal, verses ten and eleven. I love the fact the Bible reveals that he was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. He couldn't assemble with the people of God, but he sure could assemble with the God of the people. He was he was in the Spirit. That means he was yielded to and in fellowship with. listening to and walking with. He was right with God. And it was there on the Lord's Day. Isn't it interesting that it was on the Lord's Day? The Lord made these things known. Don't tell me the Lord's Day is just any other old day. This society wants to say Sunday Fun Day. I feel like saying, Open a Bible and read it, please. It's the Lord's Day. It's the Lord's Day. And the Lord does wonderful things on the Lord's day. The tomb was emptied on the Lord's day. That's a wonderful thing. Jesus got up out of the grave. It was on the Lord's Day that the disciples gathered and Jesus made himself known and revealed himself in that upper room. That happened on the Lord's Day. John got this wonderful revelation on the Isle of Patmos on the Lord's Day. God communicated the things to come, and I'm glad God still has some good things for us on the Lord's Day. A manifestation. He got personal. He's worshiping the Lord here. And he turned, one old writer said, he turned from a worshiper to a writer. He's worshiping on the Lord's day. And the Lord said, John write. I got something I want you to write down. Something I want you to do. I wonder how many hymns. I I'd like I know it's impossible to find this out, but it needd be neat to know how many hymns were written As a result of a sermon on the Lord's Day. There's a lot of them. I know of several dozen at least, and I don't know there could be a whole lot more. I'm sure there are a whole lot more. That a sermon or a statement generated a thought. And a truth was communicated. You know what? That was on the Lord's Day. But then in verses 12 to 18, there's a person who's made known. And I'm not going to rush through this. I want to come back to it because I want you to see the person. And when John sees him, by the way, when he gets down here to the last part, verses 19 and 20, and the prophecy is explained Did you notice that he doesn't have to tell him who that person was? He had to tell him who the candlestick was or who the candlesticks represented. He had to tell him uh uh about the uh uh uh uh the the seven churches and the candlesticks and all of that, and the stars. He had to tell him who the stars were. He didn't have to tell him who the man was That one who was walking in the mist. You know, isn't it something back yonder when they looked into the fiery furnace? That they didn't have to uh g do an FBI investigation to find out who the fourth man was They said that's the Son of Man. That's God Himself. He's down there walking. Hey, he don't have to be, uh Listen, you you don't have to have A revelation about who he is. He you know who he is if you know him as your Savior. John said, I know who he is. I don't get the candlestick, I don't get the stars, but I know who that is walking among them. And I'm glad I know him as my dear Lord and Savior. I hope you do. You have the prophecy explained. He gives us an outline, and I want you to see this. Right here in the explanation, in verse 19, he gives you the outline of the whole book. He says, write the things which thou hast seen. That's chapter 1. John , what you just saw, what you just witnessed, write it down, son. That's chapter 1. Then he says, I want you to write something else. The things which are. The things which are, the things which are. That's what's happening in those churches, Revelation 2 and 3. That's that's which are that's the things that are going on. And by the way, God showed him things no man would know except God showed him showed him the condition of people's hearts, which are And then he said, here's the last part. I want you to write the things which shall be hereafter. That takes you from chapter 4 right to the end of the book in chapter 22. The revelation is clearly understood by the things which are seen, the things which are, and the things which are to come. Boy, it was clear. It was clear to John. This is a revelation of Jesus Christ. I pray that as we study this As we look at the bowls, the vials, the trumpets, as we look at the horsemen and we look at all of the Other details that are veiled and unveiled here in the Word of God. I pray that we'll get the whole point of the book is to see the revelation of Jesus Christ. Because it really is about him. If I could simplify this, I would say the revelation is all about him. Study it from that point of view. Read it from that point of view. Examine it. Now, the Lord helping us, we're going to come back next Sunday night to this manifestation. Because it wasn't enough to get a revelation and a declaration, John needed this personal manifestation. He needed to know God in a personal way. And I fear, I fear that much of Christianity today is somewhere between declaration and manifestation. We've got the revelation. We know God's revealed Himself. There's the declaration of truth. But oh, where are A. W. Tozer called it the fellowship of the burning hearts. Where are the people who know the Lord? Who walk with him, not as a theory, but as their dearest friend. If we go through Revelation and don't meet him, we've missed the mark. If we study this book and No , and we could tell you all the bowls and the vials of the trumpets, and we could line all of that up in order. But we couldn't tell you about Jesus Who showed himself to our hearts and manifested himself in our lives and working in us even as we gather just now, then we missed the whole thing. I'm glad he's looking to make himself known. I believe there's a key here, and I'm trying to uncouple, but there's a key here. Between the revelation or the manifestation and John's manners on the Lord's day. See, John was in the Spirit If I can use an old illustration, he had his radio tuned in to heaven's channel. Remember when the old radios had a knob? Now we got buttons, scans, put the number in. But you had that knob and you had to turn it. Do you remember that? And and and you had to adjust it and if you got just a little bit out of of of tune it would it would then you pull it back just you know And if you were shaky at all, man, you'd be hard-pressed to get a channel. If that channel didn't have power to it, man, you'd be hard trying to zero in on that thing and and hear what it was you wanted to hear. John was in the Spirit. John had his heart tuned into heaven's channel. There was no static, there was no That no bad connection, there was no breaking up. John could hear clearly what it is God had to say Oh, that we could live like John, being in the Spirit and living in tune with the Lord, so that we can hear what the Lord has to say. If I don't hear what the Lord has to say, I've missed the whole point of studying God's blessed word. May the Lord help us to be in the Spirit. Well, Father, thank you for your word tonight and the privilege