If you're saved this morning by God's grace, you can say like the Apostle Paul did, I am what I am by the grace of God. And that's it. What a shape we would be in this morning were it not for grace. No telling where we'd be. But I'm thankful God's grace reaches down and saves old sinners. And as I look over this congregation, I see men and women who are different because of the grace of God. We have to give glory to the Lord Jesus who found us where we were, made us what we weren't. But he's not finished yet. Everybody here who's saved is a work in progress. He's still working on me. The old song says, to make me what I ought to be. And I'm glad he is. He's patient and we praise his name. Boy. That was good. I'd have been happy if he just kept on. I mean, just kept on. It wouldn't hurt my feelings. That was good. I want you to open your Bibles this morning, please, to the book of Hebrews. Chapter number 13. Hebrews chapter number 13. I'd like to read three verses in your hearing. Verse 7, 8, and 9. Hebrews chapter number 13. And I'm going to read verses 7 to 9. And when you find your place, would you kindly stand and we'll honor the reading of God's word together? The Bible says, Remember them which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God. Whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation. Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, and today, and forever. Be not carried about with divers and strange doctrines, for it's a good thing that the heart be established with grace. Not with meats, which have not profited them that have been occupied therein. Paul's closing his letter to these Hebrew believers And he's reminding them of the object of their faith. It's not the divers and strange doctrines that they've been occupied with. It's not their Personal preferences and their weird ideology to Jesus Christ. The same yesterday, today, and forever. I want to preach with the help of the Lord this morning on the unchanging Christ. The unchanging Christ. Heavenly Father, we bow before you and thank you for the privilege to pray. Help us now through your word for your glory and our good. We love you and thank you for loving us and pray now you'll undertake. We sure need your help and we trust you for it. And we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said Amen. You can be seated. Now my text this morning is found in verse number eight. Jesus Christ, the same yesterday and today and forever. While this verse can stand all alone, this verse doesn't need a context. It is a context in itself. But yet the Bible is a book that's written in context, so we can't we dare not pull it out. When you study the book of Hebrews, you find that Paul throughout Hebrews Is comparing Jesus Christ to. He compares him to Moses. He compares him to the law. He compares him to the temple. He compares him to the sacrifices. And hands down, in every instance, he comes to this conclusion. Jesus is better than. He's better than anything you compare him to. It doesn't matter what you put alongside Jesus, you always come to the same conclusion. He's better than all of that. And as we look through the book, and he tells us in chapter 12 and verse 27, he says this word yet once more signifieth the removing. And I want you to see that word, the removing. Of those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken may remain. Now what's he talking about? God was moving things. He was removing things out of the way. He was removing the temple, I believe at this point, had been destroyed The ceremonial law was gone. The priesthood was no more. He he emphasized nearly three chapters of declaring the priesthood is no more. There's no more priesthood. It's abolished. It's done away with. And yet, Jesus Christ remains the same yesterday and today and forever. And then he he goes on as we look in our text and the context here of the chapter in verse seven and he talks about remembering them in verse seven, which have the rule over you who have spoken unto you the word of God, whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation. And I believe Paul's saying, now look back, there's some who were your spiritual leaders who are no more. They're gone. They spoke to you the word of God. Think about the end. How did it all end for them? Where did it all end for them? In the light of former or in the light of changing leadership. Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and forever. In the midst of change, and these believers were living in days like you. In fact, the truth is every believer that has ever lived has lived amid great change. Change is the one constant in our lives. It's always changing. I mean, listen, you stop and think about the multitude of changes that have come in your life. Since you got saved. Who stood by you and said, We're going to live for God till Jesus comes? And maybe they're not no more? Changes. Well, don't we live in a changing world? You live in a changing body. Can I get a witness? Poor daddy went to heaven. He said, Son, I walked by the mirror today, and I looked at it, I said, Who's that old man looking at me? I said, Pop, I don't know who he is. Don't know who he is. You know why we change. Everything you know anything about substantially changes. The Bible tells us here the changing leadership. And then in verse number 9, Paul reminds them about their changing teachings. He said, Be not carried about with divers and strange doctrines. For it's a good thing that the heart be established with grace, not with meats, which have not profited them that have been occupied therein. I if I can put my word to it, I believe he's talking about some of the hobby horses It's what we'd call them hobby horses. People have all kinds of hobby horses. I've oh how I feared as we studied through Revelation that we go off on a tangent I want to keep the revelation of Jesus Christ about the revelation of Jesus Christ. Because that's what it's all about. They're tangents, they're hobby horses, there's There's things that you and I could ride off to the right on or ride off to the left on and get off track. And here's what he said amid changing teaching Jesus Christ, the same. Yesterday and today and forever. Don't don't don't read that too lightly or take that uh just sort of as passing. The truth of the matter is, there is one true object to our faith, and that's the person of Jesus Christ. He does not change. Amid all the changes of life, the one constant, the one stable, the one unchanging thing that you and I can cling to. Is the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Again, let me read it. Jesus Christ the same yesterday and today and forever. I want you to look with me at the person here in the text. The person is simply Jesus Christ. And I say simply Jesus Christ, but I almost feel convicted for saying simply because there's nothing simply about Jesus Christ. The Bible teaches us that he's an exclusive person. If I can just put it in my plain language, there ain't nobody like him. He's exclusively the Lord Jesus Christ. In Acts chapter 4 and verse number 12, the Bible says, There's none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. There's none other name because there's no other person. There's no one like him. Allah doesn't compare, doesn't even come on the radar. Buddha, it doesn't, Muhammad, I don't care who you stand next to, the Lord Jesus Christ. He's exclusive and above all. Paul wrote to the Colossian believers, He's above all and in all, through all. He's preeminent above all. He's exclusive. Everything about Jesus Christ declares that he is above all things. We need to remember that as we think about his person. Not only is he exclusive, but he's exalted. Would you go back to the book of Philippians with me? Philippians chapter number two. And I want you to see how God's exalted him, God's elevated him to a position no other man holds. Philippians chapter number two and verse nine reads this way. Wherefore, God also hath highly exalted him, and given him a name which is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. The Lord Jesus has been exalted. He has a position no one else holds. Folks, please hear me. There's coming a day when every single knee will bow Every knee. There won't be an exception. When uh when Nebuchadnezzar put up his big image and it must have been can you imagine that thing what it looked like? As they gathered on the plains of Durah, and everybody except three didn't bow. It was a mass of humanity, a sea of peoples, and they're all on their face and they're bowing at the sound of the music before this idol that Nebuchadnezzar had made. Not every knee. Not every knee. But all of those that you could see except for the three Hebrew boys were bowing the knee. Listen, there were exceptions to the to the bowing of the knee there. There is quickly approaching a day. When we study the Revelation, you're going to find at the end the consummation of all things, and you know what's happened? Every knee's bowed. Every tongue's confessed. Every individual is acknowledged. There's none like him. He's exalted. Wherefore the Father hath highly exalted him. One day, dear friend, every knee will bow. This crowd that wants to mock him today, they're going to bow. This crowd that wants to make fun and to uh just speak so degradingly of the Lord Jesus, that knee's gonna bow. Every proud and stubborn heart that says, I'll not have this man to rule over me. Remember that's what they said around the cross. That outfit around the cross said, will not have this man rule over me. Crucify him, crucify him. A lot of people have that attitude today. I'll not have this man. Well, you may make that choice in life, but there's coming a time in eternity where you won't have a choice. You won't have the opportunity to choose. You will bow, you will confess, you will give glory to God. Why? Because the Father has highly exalted him, Jesus Christ. Not only is he exclusive and exalting, but he alone is enduring. We don't have time this morning, but if you go back through the Hebrew uh letter, you'll find so many things pass. The old covenant pass. The old priesthood passed. The blood that was shed, the lambs and all of that, that's past. It's no longer needed. There's one sacrifice. The law has passed or been fulfilled in the person of this individual, the Lord Jesus Christ. All these things pass. And then in verse 7, he talks about there in chapter 13 those leaders, and they've passed They're gone. They're no longer there. And you know what he's trying to make the point, and the Spirit of God is delivering this truth, that there's only one who's enduring. There's only one enduring one. You know, sometimes we put so much faith in the secondary. We trust the preliminaries, you know. It's sort of like treating an appetizer like the main meal. You know, it's it's just the introduction of things to come. We uh went one time to a place where they had several coarse meal And I'll be honest with you, the appetizers put near fill you up. And it was it was pretty impressive. But then the meal came out, and I thought, what are we going to do with all that? That was something else. And listen, you know what? We oftentimes we put our faith in things that will not endure. We trust those things that are that are so, we put such a priority on them, but they may pass away. I appreciate the opportunity we get to gather in this uh this building. I thank God for the foresight and the construction of it and the comfortableness and all of that. But but there may come a time when Marinatha can't meet in this building. Will our faith be shattered? Our faith's not in a building. Our faith is not in a structure. You know I was thinking in the near 70, well 70 71 at least uh years of history of this church, it's had three pastors And if time goes on, it may have a multitude more than that. Leadership changes. If we put our faith in leadership, we're sadly and soon going to be disappointed. We don't put our faith in men. We don't put our faith in religious movements. Listen, there's all sorts of religious movements, and we are what we are by conviction, I trust. We are, we, we were, we we didn't just think, well, it'd be good to be an independent Baptist. That sounds like a good name. Let's put it on the sign. We've got convictions about that sort of thing. There's convictions in our heart that say we stand here because we believe it's what the Bible teaches. It's important to us. But we've not tied or yoked ourselves to a religious movement. Our faith is in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the object He's the object of our faith. Our faith is not in one another. Thank God for the fellowship. Thank God for the family. Thank God for the people of God. But as we know, there's an end to all men. There's an end to all men. The Bible I seen this the other day. The Bible says the day we perish, our thoughts perish with us. What did Pastor Dixon used to say, if you think you're important, put your hand in a five-gallon bucket of water and pull it out and see how big of a difference it makes? It don't make much difference. That's how fleeting our lives are, and that's how fragile and frail. But here's the great truth. Jesus Christ, the same yesterday and today and forever. He's the constant one. He alone is enduring. I'll tell you what, as I look on the future Uh it it it troubles me, I've got to be honest, as I think about the world my children and my children's children to live in. If the Lord doesn't come, what kind of world, what kind of place is this going to be But there's one thing that gives me comfort in that. There's one thing that consoles my soul. It's the reality that the enduring one will be the same. The same Jesus who walked with me, the same Jesus who looked after me will be the same Jesus who walks with them and looks after them. You know why? Because Jesus Christ the same. Yesterday and today and forever. We see the person of Jesus Christ. He alone remains. But then I want you to notice the principle that's emphasized here. Two words, the same. The same. Jesus Christ, the same. Of all the things that should thrill your heart this morning, it's this: Jesus is the same. He's the same. He don't change. He doesn't change. We were staying with uh an old captain. Uh brother Harry, his name was Harry. They called him Captain Harry. And as we looked out over the the bay there where he lived, he would get up in the morning. I don't know what time he got up, he's always up. I don't know if he ever slept He was up when we got up, he was up when we went to bed, but he was standing there and he'd drink coffee and he'd watch that bay. And sometimes he'd make comments about the ocean. He talked about it like a person. I didn't know who he was talking about. First morning I'm sitting there at the table and he's drinking his coffee and I thought he was talking about his wife. He said, boy, she's moody this morning. He drunk his coffee. Uh well I don't know where she's at, but hope she don't come around. If she's moody , Lord bless her. And then then then he'd hit some mornings he would he would get there and he'd say, Oh boy, she's calm today. She's calm today And I said to him one morning, I said, what are you talking about, Harry? And he said, I'm talking about the sea. He said, the sea's an awful moody creature. He said, some days she's calm and some days she's crazy, and you never know which she'll be. I said, well, I know some folk like that. I guess that's a pretty apt description. But listen, the inspired record says Jesus Christ, the same. The same He's not moody. He never changes. His attitudes are unalterable. He's perfect in his character. Everything about him is the same because perfection does not need to improve. It's already perfect. We find this as an expression here the same. Some would say that this is a title of the Lord Jesus, and it very well could be. But I want you to see first, it's an expression of consistency. He's the same. You'll always find him the same. You'll never find him different than from what he was. He just is. I love what what the Lord said, what God said to Joshua He said, As I was with Moses, so shall I be with thee. Now Moses was the wilderness leader. Joshua's the Canaan leader Moses was living in a different era, if you will. Joshua was living in a new era. It was a changing of times and place and all of that. But the truth was the same God that brought them through the wilderness was the same God that was going to bring them into the promised land. And the Lord is always the same. It struck me recently as I've been comparing my Old and New Testament that we often make such a sharp line between the two that it's like there's an Old Testament God and a New Testament God. But that's not what the Bible teaches. The Bible shows us our God is God. He's the same. That from one end to the other, he's unchanging. His dispensations or dealings with men may be different. But his nature and character and attributes are all the same. He's always the same. It is an expression of consistency. He is the same. It's an exclamation of immutability, the fact that he does not change, that he's a constant. Malachi 3. 6 makes this declaration, I am the Lord. I change not. I'm the Lord. I change not. I don't change. The Lord doesn't change. Boy, if the Lord could just burn that in our hearts, I believe it'd help us today. That we understand that the Lord does not change. Folks listen, our culture if if if you're over fifty years old, you've seen a lot of change. You've seen change in the country, you've seen change in the culture, you've seen changes just completely across the board. There's a lot of things change. But you've got to know this. There's a God in heaven who does not change. Jesus Christ is the same. He's immutable. Everything about him was set, and we talk about eternity past, but you can't talk about eternity past in that term because there's no eternity past, there's just eternity. We talk about eternity future, but there's really no eternity future. There's just eternity. And from eternity to eternity, Jesus Christ is the same. Oh, listen, you've not put your faith in some little dog and pony show. You put your faith in the immutable, unchanging God of glory, who is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Thank God for that. But not only is this an expression of consistency and an exclamation of immutability, but it is an exhortation of dependency. Would you go back to the Psalms just a minute, Psalm 73? Turn back to the 73rd Psalm, and I want you to see this, please. Two little verses. Verse 25 and 6. The psalmist says, Whom have I in heaven but thee? And there is none upon earth that I desire beside thee. My flesh and my heart faileth, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. Look, he said, everything changes. My heart fails me. My flesh fails me. Men upon earth fail me. But he said, God. God is the strength of my heart. He's my portion forever. Understand that as we live in an ever-changing world, and you live in an ever-changing circumstance, And we live in an ever-changing culture. Know this, there's one you can cling to that'll never change. There's one that you can rest in. Here's a place, dear Christian, you can put your weary head. You ever say I'm just sick of the change? I just wish stuff would quit changing. We by nature don't like change. Most people do not like change We don't like things to change, or people to change, or attitude to change. I was thinking what Paul wrote the other day. He wrote to the, I believe it's the Corinthian believers, and he said, the more I love you, the less I be loved. He talked about when he first went among them, he said you'd give your eyeballs to me if you could. And now I'm your enemy because to tell you the truth, you know why? People change. That's just the nature of people. People are fickle by nature and they change. But bless the wonderful Lord's holy name, he does not change. If you're accepted in the beloved and have rested your faith in Jesus Christ, that never changes. Your behavior may disappoint him But your place of security in the Lord Jesus Christ does not change. It never changes. He's not going to eject you out of the family simply because you failed him. He's made a provision called grace and mercy. That forgives sin and cleanses you and restores fellowship and puts you back on the right track. Understand, the Lord does not change. And so I must depend upon Him. I often think life is like this. It's living with the Lord kicking all the crutches out from under you. And the further you go down the road, the fewer crutches you got to lean on. The further you walk with the Lord, He takes this crutch and that crutch and this crutch and that crutch. And before you know it, all you got's him. And you know what you find out? When all you got's him, he's all that you need. When he he's all that you have, hallelujah, he is truly all that you need. Thank God for the unchanging nature of the Lord Jesus Christ. Cling to him. Cling to him. And then notice finally the passing of time. He speaks here of yesterday, today, and forever. Now, eternity encompasses all He's Jesus Christ the same. But for you and I to fathom this, he's got to put it in our understanding. And our understanding is yesterday, today, and forever. If you go into yesterday, let's ask some of those saints, is he the same? Have you ever thought about this expression, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob? You know what a span of time you're talking about? Three generations, but quite a lengthy span of time. But the span of time does not alter the person of the Lord. See, he's the same. The God Abraham, if you're saved this morning, he's your God. He's your God. The God who parted the Red Sea for Moses, that's your God. That's our God. The God who who brought manna down from heaven for the children in the wilderness, that's our God. Let's go, let's let's back up a little bit and go way back yonder. And the God who said, Let there be light That's our God. That's our God. The God who's who raised Jesus Christ from the dead. That's our God. That's our God. The God who ascended into a heaven a at the Father's right hand, that's our God. I I'm just trying to help us to see That the yesterdays, the yesterdays would say with a resounding unified voice, He is the same. I found him to be the same. Let's come to the present. Let's come to the present. Let's walk these pews and walk these aisles and speak to you who are saved. Is he the same? Have you not found him to be the same? Many of you had saved parents, mother, father, or or grandmother, grandfather, maybe maybe going way back. I don't know. And and and you know, you you heard them say things and you watched them live a certain way and and they declared they talked about the Lord and who he is and what he did. and all of those things. And here you are all these many years later, and you know what? He's still the same. He's still the same. They're gone in heaven, but they're but but the Lord's still the same. He's the same. Oh the passing of time, uh I I believe it was A. W. Pink who said the passing of time does not carve a wrinkle or a or a furrow on the brow. of of God. It doesn't carve. Boy, it's carved some on us, hasn't it? I'll tell you some of us it's plowed like an old field. But the reality is it does not plow the fur of God. Time doesn't touch him. Go back in yesterday. Let's say, is he the same? Yes, he's the same. He's always the same. He's the same in the present. He's the same God. He's the same God. Has it not ever cheered you to look back and say, you know, the Lord did that for me then? Well wait a minute. What does the Bible teach us that God's timing is is such a vast thing that yesterday's a uh uh that that it's a thousand years and and a thousand years is as a day? with the Lord. I mean his his his timing is is certainly not our timing. And none of that none of that affects him. He's the same. He's the same in the present. That same that same Lord who saved you? Ten years ago, twenty years ago, forty years ago, you go on. It doesn't matter the amount of time. He's the same God today. The same grace that was sufficient then is the same grace that's sufficient now. The same God who was able then is the same God who's able now. And so think about that present today. Fast forward, future. What can my expectations be concerning the future? What does the future hold? Or there's something mysterious about the future, isn't there? We don't know. We like to think we know. We put a lot of stock in those who think they know. But the fact is, we just don't know. We don't know what the future holds for us personally. We don't know what the future holds for us congregationally. We just don't know. There's so much of it unknown. But are there expectations I can have that are grounded and founded in something better than mere speculation? You know, there's a there's a, and you may know this, some of you that are familiar with these things, there's a uh a speculative market Farmers play it. Some farmers get in a whole lot of trouble through speculating the measure of crop they'll they'll uh harvest, and they'll sell a crop they hadn't even planted. And they'll get money and live on money uh for things that hadn't come to pass. And all is all it takes is one tornado One drought. W one little thing we didn't factor, one weird little creature that comes out of nowhere and eats everything up And the next thing you know, all that speculation, all that money that we thought would be coming in is gone. And there you're sitting with a great debt and a dead crop, and there's nothing to harvest. Speculating. And of course, it's in every area of investment, this thing of speculating, what may, what could, what. But listen, we're not speculating this morning. We're not sitting here this morning and and and dreaming about a crop that we may never harvest. We're not thinking about something that'll never happen. We got a Bible that says Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and forever. You know what I can expect in the future? I can expect the Savior to be the same. I can just expect that. I can expect that, and beloved, I will not be disappointed. I can expect him to be the same. I can expect salvation to still be the same. I sure can. Listen, when when uh the future generations come along, they're still going to need to hear Jesus saves. They're still going to need a witness. They're still going to need the gospel. Why? Because salvation will be the same. It's always been the same. You can expect the Lord's sufficiency to be the same. God 's grace, he said, my grace is sufficient for thee. You can trust it to be the same. You're not going to get in such a predicament that God's grace won't get you through. Won't happen. You know why? Because the grace of God's the same. The same grace that carried Paul through those imprisonments and finally into death is the same grace that'll carry you home to glory. What does the old song say? Grace has brought me safe thus far, and grace will take me home. It sure will. You know why? Because He's the same. God's grace is the same. His our source, listen, our source is the same. Our source is the same. Our source, oh beloved, is not on this earth. Our source is in heaven. Our source is not fixed to whatever may be going on around us. Our source is in the Lord. We stayed in a little cabin one time. The lady who owned that cabin had renovated it. It perhaps was one of the oldest cabins in North Carolina. And it had been a hunting camp. And they had renovated this thing and fixed it up. She was actually the private nurse for Billy Graham. She took care of him in his last days. And that cabin was fed by spring. And it was the coldest cleanest water I think I'd ever it was it was I I can't describe to you how good the water was. And I remember asking her, I said, Does drought ever affect this spring? She said, No. She said, I've seen springs all around this mountain dry up, but that one won't. I said, Where does that thing start? She had it piped down. She said, I'm not really sure. It's way up the mountain somewhere. So That to me was an invitation. Go find it. And so I had to walk up the mountain, and I went up through there. Man, we climbed and climbed. I can't remember if you went with me. or not, but we climbed and climbed and climbed and kept going and kept going. And just when I thought I was at the top of the mountain the thing would plateau and then there's another peak. And you'd have to climb again And finally, after about half a day of climbing, I came to this place, it it was just a pile of rocks. And the ground, there hadn't been running water for quite a ways, but the water, the ground was damp. You could tell that spring was under there somewhere. And when I got finally to the to this place, and I was probably from here to the back of the building to the peak, we're talking about the top of a mountain. There's a flat spot and these rocks. And when I got up there, I noticed that it was all clear around it. And there was water literally bubbling up. That was the source of that spring. On the top of a mountain. And here it is, bubbling up. And and I d the the the the resource down below must have been awfully good for it to never dry up, being that it come out on the top of a mountain. There must have been some serious underground water that flowed right there. I'm here to tell you That spring may dry up one day. Because that's not an eternal resource. But here's what my Bible says: my springs, all my springs are in thee. There's an eternal spring that'll never dry up. There's an eternal reservoir that you can always draw on. You'll never go to God and He'll say, sorry, windows closed, bankrupt, can't help you today I'm glad his he listen, he's always the same. Thank God for that. We have the same source. I said all that to say this. He's truly all that I need. He's all I need. Ron Hamilton wrote this. I want you to, you know it, but what a precious reminder it is. He said, I am his and he is mine. Jesus knows my name. I can rest in his arms. He's always the same. When I fall, when I call, Jesus takes my hand. Cleansing me, lifting me, he helps me to stand. In his love, I'm secure, we shall never part In His word I will trust and give him all my heart. In the dark of the night when my heart would fear Lovingly, tenderly, my Savior is near. Always the same. Oh praise His name. Jesus never changes. He's always the same Always together, his love forever. Jesus never changes. He's always the same. Listen, beloved, I don't know what changes have unsettled your heart. But I want you to look Jesus Christ the same. Yesterday and today and forever. He's not gonna change. You can put your weary head right on that promise and just rest real good. He won't change. Nothing will change him on earth, nothing will change him in heaven. Nothing in hell is going to change him. Do you know you're so secure that the accuser of the brethren can't lay charges That he's not already cleared through the precious blood of Jesus Christ. Your soul, that's why the Bible says, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. The record's clear. Your heart is made clean. The blood of Christ has secured it. And you can rest there. Oh, your feelings about it may change. Your confidence may change. Your assurance may change. But he doesn't change. Your fears may change. Your circumstances may change. Your surroundings and and and listen, all everything will change, but he'll never change He is the Lord. Old church, lay hold of the fact that Jesus Christ is unchanging. He's unchanging. And because he's unchanging, you and I can rest secure. If you're not saved today, I've got to tell you, because he's unchanging, he's decreed something. He's decreed that there's only one way to heaven. He's decreed that there is a reality of a place called hell. He's decreed that the blood of Jesus Christ alone can cleanse all sin. And he's not going to change on that. He's not going to change on that. He's not going to change the gospel. He's not going to change the message. He's not going to Change the way Now listen, we religiously may change. Religion may put another definition on it. I'm telling you, there's people today that are in cults that are using the term born again. There's dead religions, been dead. Catholicism, to be truthful, is using the terminology accepting Christ. They're talking about Taking communion. They're not talking about believing on Christ by faith. And they're changing their terminology. I don't care what you change about terminology, God hasn't changed his mind. Jesus Christ is the way, the truth, and the life, and no man comes to the Father but by Him. You must be born again. It's not optional. It's required if you're to see God's good heaven. Oh, dear friend, know this. God's not changing the gospel. There's coming a day when rebellious man will think he can dethrone God. And God's going to remind man, I haven't changed. In Revelation 6 tonight, we're going to look at the war or the wrath of the Lamb. We've been talking about his worship. But do you notice they don't change the Bible doesn't change his name when it comes to wrath or war? He's still the Lamb. He's still the lamb that was slain. He's still listen, he's made a way for you to be saved. He's not going to change his mind. And when judgment falls, he's still the lamb. Folks listen, don't play fast and loose with your soul. You need to be saved if you're not saved. And if you are saved, you need to realize That there's only one thing that won't change. Don't put your faith in the preliminaries. Don't put your faith in the secondary. Put your faith in the Lord Jesus, who will never change. Rest there, dear believer. Draw your resources out of that reservoir and you'll never go dry. That's why that man planted by the rivers of water Shall bring forth his fruit in his season. His leaf also shall not wither. Whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. He's drawing from a well that will never run dry. And you can too, because he's always the same. May the Lord help us this morning. If you're not right with God, get right with God. If you're not saved, you need to be saved. If you're not living for the Lord, start living for the Lord. Get your heart right. Whatever sin it is that's kept you from uh being right and close to God, confess it to him and let him cleanse it. And let's go along the way resting in the unchanging hand of Almighty God. Let's stand together, please. Brother, come with our hymn.