Amen. That was worth coming to church for, wasn't it? Amen. I appreciate that. Would you open your Bible to Revelation chapter 17? As we continue our study together. And I'm going to warn you ahead of time that this is a packed chapter. And so we're going to do our best to unpack it, but we may not get it all unpacked here this evening. Revelation chapter 17 and 18 really go together. Both describe a fall. And in the description of the fall, we have a revelation of the Babylonian system. That system that is ran by the man of sin, we see its forerunner in the world today. But what's described in Revelation 17 and 18 is going to really come to fruition during the tribulation period. All that I read here is future in a very real way. And it describes something that we have yet to see. And so please keep all of that in mind. But again, there are forerunners for these things in the world today. Both the description here, chapter 17 and 18 describe a system controlled by the devil. But God's going to unmask it. And he unmasks it here in this chapter. So let's try to focus on chapter 17 first. There's two parts here to this chapter, and we'll try to get at least through one of them. Revelation 17, verse 1 says, There came one of the seven angels, which had the seven vials, and talked with me, saying unto me, Come hither. I will show unto thee the judgment of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters, with whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication. So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness. And I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet-colored beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns. And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet color, and decked with gold and precious stone and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand, full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication. And upon her forehead was a name written, Mystery Babylon, the Great, the mother of harlots and abominations of the earth. And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus, and when I saw her, I wondered with great admiration. Not admiration in the sense of respect or admiration in the sense of any qualities in her, but wonder, admiration in the sense of just wonder at what an abominable, filthy creature she was Verse 7, and the angel said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel? I will tell thee the mystery of the woman and of the beast that carrieth her, which hath the seven heads and ten horns. The beast that thou sawest was and is not, and shall ascend out of the bottomless pit and go into perdition. And they that dwell on the earth shall wonder, whose names were not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, when they behold the beast that was, and is not, and yet is And here is the mind which hath wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sitteth. And there are seven kings, five are fallen, and one is, the other is not yet come. And when he cometh, he must continue a short space. And the beast that was and is not, even he, is the eighth and is of the seventh. And goeth into perdition. And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings which had received no kingdom as yet, but received power as kings one hour with the beast. These have one mind and shall give their power and strength unto the beast. These shall make war with the lamb, and the lamb shall overcome them. For he is the Lord of lords and king of kings, and they that are with him are called and chosen and faithful And he saith unto me, The waters which thou sawest where the whore sitteth are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues. And the ten horns which thou sawest upon the beast, these shall hate the whore, and shall make her desolate and naked, and shall eat her flesh and burn her with fire. For God hath put in their hearts to fulfill his will and to agree and to give their kingdom unto the beast until the words of God shall be fulfilled. And the woman which thou sawest is that great city which reigneth over the kings of the earth. Now, the Lord helping us tonight. We're going to try to get through as much of this as possible. A lot of truth here, but it's a lot of truth I think we need to be aware of. And so may the Lord help us. Let's pray. Father, do undertake in this meeting. And Lord, would you please help us to have clear minds and help us to have an understanding heart? And may the Spirit of God be our teacher here just now. I pray, Lord, for these moments we have together. You'll hide me behind the cross, help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus, and may you be pleased to both walk and work among us. Lord, we're a needy people And Lord, we need the every hour, and we need the every moment of every hour. And we pray for your help in a fresh way, and we'll give you all the glory. Father, we thank you for your kindness to us already today. Lord, we appreciate it. We appreciate you meeting with us in the morning service. And we appreciate you being so kind to come near. But we've come tonight again hungry. We've come in great need, and we need help from above, and we ask that God you'd grant that and get the glory from it. We'll praise you and thank you for all that you do and for who that you are. We praise you anyhow in Jesus' strong name. Amen. I want you to divide this chapter in two parts. We're going to look at it in that fashion. In verses 1 to 6, we have the mother of harlots. That's what She's called here in these verses, verse number five, the mystery Babylon, the great, the mother of harlots and abominations of the earth. And then when we get to verses seven to eighteen, we have the unveiling of a monstrous system. A monstrous system. Now please keep in mind that the uh the workings of the devil have been from the beginning of time From the fall of man to the present hour, all that I'm reading here has been being put together. It's sort of like bricks in a wall. These little bricks have been put down through the ages. In fact, tonight as we sit here, more bricks are being placed into this wall. But when we come to this chapter, we come to the end of the tribulation period, and we begin to see the culmination of all of this This mother of harlots is the culmination of all the religions in a one-world church. It's the coming together of this of this mother of harlots. Now, I believe quite fully that the greatest similarities between this mother of harlots and any other religious organization on the planet is the Roman Catholic Church. I believe they're the forerunner of this. They're laid But when you see this woman riding the beast, you see a religious system that is bigger than and goes beyond what we know as the current Roman Catholic Church. It's laying the groundwork for all of this to happen. And by the way, that's exactly all that the devil's doing. He's laying the groundwork for all that is about to come. And so he's doing that through this religious system. Now Here we see many things about this, we'll call it an apostate church. I want you to notice that in the last days, in the tribulation period, There's going to be a ruling power that is religious in nature. There's going to be a one-world church, a ruling church. I often thought as a little boy when I heard them talk about prophecy and preach about the end times that men would be lawless and godless and and vile and they would uh hate religion and turn away Well, men will be lawless and vile and ungodly, but they will be very religious. Religion will rule the day. Religion is going to be, notice that mother, she's called the mother of harlots. If I can say it in as plain and yet as gracious a way as I can, she's going to be used for the purpose at hand. And the purpose at hand is to get power. And religion is going to be the ushering in of the power of the man of sin. I want you to notice several things here. I want you to notice first that she rules many peoples. It says There came one of the seven angels. Now, think about this for a minute. Revelation 17 and 18 is sort of a parentheses in the midst of God's judgment. Those seven vials have been poured out. Those seven vials have been emptied out on the earth. And as Dr. John Phillips says, it's like one of those angels is walking back with an empty vial and stops and says, John, let me tell you what's going on here. And he begins to tell him what's happening on the earth as this mother of harlots is being dismantled right before their very eyes I want you to notice again, it says in verse verse 1, Come hither, I'll show thee the judgment of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters. Waters, oftentimes, in the in the revelation uh speak of a great multitude of people. When you hear the voice of many waters, that's the voice of many people. And here she she's ruling, she sits upon many waters, she rules many people. In fact, this religious system is going to rule the entire earth. And it's not going to be a rule of a persuaded will, but it's going to be the rule of pressure. You either bow or you die. You either come or you'll go. I mean, it's it's a it's a ruling power here over many peoples. And I want you to see that. Verse 2 it says, even the kings of the earth have committed fornication. And the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication. In other words, there has been a great amalgamation of all the powers of the earth, of all the peoples of the earth, And she's going to rule over them for a time. The man of sin is going to use religion in his favor. Now please hear me. He won't be the first. He's not the first. Do you know before Hitler rose to power? He scoured the countryside and spoke in church after church after church. He spoke to young people. And his moralistic ideas caught flame among the peoples. And he was a great influence and had great power. And he used religion to get to power. When he got to power, he devoured it. Now listen, the man of sin is going to be the same way. That was a dress rehearsal for what the devil's going to do on this earth during the tribulation period. And I want you to watch this here as this mother of harlots rules many people. And then look in verse 3, she rides something peculiar. Look what he says. So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness, and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet-colored beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns. This religious system that she rides is going to be regal in its appearance. It's going to have the that scarlet is is not only a picture of wealth, but it's a picture of of of of a king. Someone that rules with with splendor, if you will. And so uh it it she's going to ride this peculiar beast. She's, in other words, this religious system is going to mount the back of the devil and ride triumphantly through the tribulation period. Now keep that in mind. I'm going somewhere with all this. But I want you to remember what's happening. Religions being used by the devil. Religions being used by the man of sin. Religions being used by this beast. And he's taken this woman, this mother of harlots, and he's using her for his purposes. He's using her for his ends. Look in verse four. Her riches are described. The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet color, decked with gold and precious stones and pearls. You notice that? She's very wealthy. And I said there's a correlation here between the Roman Catholic Church. I read something recently that said there's about $70 billion. In in the Vatican as far as assets and wealth. Seventy billion. We're talking about a chunk of change. That's a lot of money. And she's going to be a wealthy system. You see, you you see the marriage, and here's what we see. Constantine tried this back in 300 AD, but here is a marriage of a state system and the marriage of a religious system and the joining together. What's it all about? It's all about getting power, and power needs money to prosper. So the money is gathered, and the power is gathered, and the peoples are gathered. And then notice her rottenness being exposed. Look what it says. She had a golden cup in her hand. By the way, a golden cup full of filth is still filthy. A religious system run by the devil is still the devil's system. A religious system, it might be religious. People say, well, I don't want to say anything bad about religion. Well listen, if it's full of filth, it's full of filth. If it's the devil's system, it's the devil's system. She had a golden cup and it was full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication. And then notice in verse 5, and upon her forehead was the name written, Mystery Babylon the Great, the mother of harlots and abominations of the earth. My how filthy and full of idolaters. And by the way, that that abominations in the Bible is often associated with idolatrous behavior. In other words, she's an idol worshiper. And I know of no other system under heaven that names the name of Christ and yet still worships idols. Like the Roman Catholic Church. It's a forerunner. Do you see what I'm trying to say? It's a forerunner of this thing that is to come, this monstrous uh system, this this mother of harlots that's going to usher in this power for the beast and bring peoples in subjection under them, and it's going to do it. She's going to do it under the name of idolatry. Anything put above Jesus Christ is an idol. It matters not who or what it is, if it takes his place, usurps his position, it is idolatrous in nature. Whether it's a church system, I spoke with someone here uh last week about this, and they said, well yes, we we believe in Jesus Christ. We believe that he's the Savior, but we also believe that the fathers teach us, the church fathers teach us. that tradition has a great place and and and our traditions teach us that these uh these idols and such have such power, you know, that these these images, the crucifix and so on, that they have power. Let me say to you, dear friend. Hear what Jeremiah said. He said, you go out in the woods, and I'm paraphrasing. And he said, you cut down a tree, and with that tree that you cut down, you heat your home and you cook your food. And then you carve an idol and bend down to it and say, Save me. He said, How ridiculous is that? How ridiculous is it to think that an inanimate object has any power whatsoever I'm glad tonight that salvation in Jesus Christ sets us free from idolatry. We don't bow at an image, we don't bow at a picture, we don't bow At some crucifix, we bow at the feet of King Jesus, who's alive and who's well. And then I want you to notice as this rottenness is exposed, That both idolatry and immorality go hand in hand. They're joined together at the hip. You cannot separate the two. When you have idolatry, you'll always have immorality. Then remember this in verse number six, we see her rage expressed And I saw the woman, listen to this, drunken with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. And when I saw her, I wondered with great admiration. John is taken back here as he sees the atrocities. Man, I'll tell you, I read some fresh this week, the atrocities of the Roman Church. Are indescribable. There are things I've read I wouldn't speak in a mixed audience, such as this. The rage, the rage. You know what it is? It's a hatred for Jesus Christ expressed upon the people of God. And in the tribulation, there's going to be an unleashing and an unhindrance of that kind of rage. I promise you, if the devil could, he'd annihilate every Christian right here. If he could. But he's hindered at the moment. He's being blocked at the moment. He's being checked at the moment. But when the Spirit of God is taken out of here and the church is taken out of here in the rapture, the hindrance is gone. And the checking is gone and the blocking is gone and the rage that's going to be expressed. The Inquisition is going to be a walk in the park compared to what the tribulation is going to bring for those who put their faith in Jesus Christ. I believe that. You know why? Because the devil hates God's people. We might as well get it in our system and understand that the devil hates God's people. You can't sit down at the table and and uh negotiate with him because he hates you. I can still see Dr. James Quitted. He's in heaven now. He was a missionary to Scotland, he was all of that big He was a Marine, and God called him to Scotland to be a missionary, and he planted several churches there. And I can still see him With that little pursed lip and his finger stuck in the air and the fire burning in his heart, even as an old man, he said, The devil and I belong to a mutual admiration society I hate him and he hates me. And that's the way it's gonna be, he said. I went to see him before he went to heaven. He got Alzheimer's and He he forgot a lot of stuff. And he got he got to the place. He really didn't know his wife. He didn't know a lot of people. But I got to visit him on a good day. And he sat there in his chair and and uh he's always very anxious, but just moving all the time. He was moving his hands on the chair and he said, Now tell me who you are again. I told him my name and he he said I c I I know I I remember your face. You went to school there and I said, yes sir, I did. I said I used to milk cows. Oh, he said that man. You're that man. I said, yeah. He said you you were up north somewhere. I said, yes, sir, I was. And Now I'm back in in in the States and we got to talking and always started bragging on the Lord and talking about how good God was. And then all of a sudden in the middle of conversation he said, Did I tell you I hate the devil? I said, Yes, doctor, you've told me you hate the devil. He said, I still do. I just wanted you to know that. I said, Well, praise the Lord. And I'll tell you something, the devil hates you. And the rage of the enemy is going to be exposed during this tribulation period. Then I want you to notice this. As we consider uh this mother of harlots, this mother gives birth to an apostate Christianity. And rules with a religious fervor that only judgment will be able to extinguish. She gives birth to a religious apostasy. Now listen to me. It troubles me deeply to see God's people going down this path And once strong churches walking hand in hand with this mother of harlots. Oh, we joined together in what we call good causes. And I've got news for you tonight. There's no good cause that takes you away from the Bible. There's no good cause that makes you walk different than what this book describes. No good cause. You say, but it's for the sake of evangelism. For the sake of opposition to abortion. It's for the sake, I'm here to tell you there's no good cause that takes you away from the clear lines of the Word of God. And apostasy is creeping in. Listen, there are churches wholesale tonight that have thrown the Bible away at the altar of being acceptable to the culture in which we live. And that, friend, is apostasy. To turn your back on what the Bible says and to turn your back on what the Bible teaches is a rejection of the truth of God's word. Now, dear brother, sister, hear me well. This mother of harlots is going to birth a system, and that system is going to be apostate. It's going to turn from the truth. It's going to march to the beat of the devil's drum. It's going to walk in opposition to Christ and all that is godly and true. And it's going to stand and when it stands Listen to me, God in his Almighty judgment is going to unmask her and unseat her and unsettle her and ultimately destroy her. And she'll be no more And this mother of harlots is going to mo move, move in a monstrous system. A system that is going to be so powerful that it devours the very things that it uses. We'll see that in a minute. It's going to be one of those things that eats that just literally eats the heart out of itself. Look with me in verse number 7 as we go on. It says, the angel said, Unto me, wherefore didst thou marvel? I will tell thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carrieth her, which have the seven heads and ten horns. Now let's read to verse 11. The beast that thou sawest was and is not. That's important. Understand that. Thou sawest, he was and he is not, and shall ascend out of the bottomless pit and go into perdition, and they that dwell on earth shall wonder He's going to work a miracle. The ones that wonder will be the ones whose names are not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world when they behold the beast that was and is not and yet is. You know what that sounds like That sounds like the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who was and is. See, listen, the devil is a mimicker. He wants to do what God did. That's what he wants. He wants God's power. Now watch this. Verse nine and and here's the mine which hath wisdom, the seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sitteth And there are seven kings, five are fallen, one is, the other is not yet come, and when he cometh, he must continue a short space. And the beast that was and is not, even he is the eighth, and is of the seventh, and goeth into perdition Now, verse seven to eleven reveal a person. The emphasis of these verses Are not so much on the Roman Empire or the revised Roman Empire, but upon the ruler of the Roman Empire. The one who rises up and takes over this monstrous system and says, Go with me. Listen, we're living in a world that's ripe for somebody who's got an answer. Because it doesn't seem anybody's got answers We're clamoring for a political leader. We're clamoring for someone to step on the scene and say, show us a way out of this mess. Lead us through here. Get us out of here. And people will do the most ignorant of things if they find someone they think God answers. And they're looking and they're looking, they're saying, Oh, give us a man, give us a man to rule over us. Now listen to me, dear friend, as we see this monstrous system in these verses come to come to fruition There is a revelation of a person. A person who works a miracle. It says he was, and then he is, he is not, and he is again. In other words, it he does something. We read a little bit about this, I believe, earlier in our study, about this man of sin who appears to get a mortal wound, who seems to die, and is brought back to life. Mimicking the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And the devil's going to say, see, I told you that just like Jesus died and rose again, Here, the real Messiah, the real f the real leader, has done the same thing. Now please listen to me You and I need an incredible amount of discernment in our lives right now. He's going to work miracles. Don't think for a minute that this age of miracles, the age of reason and the scientific mind is going to give way in the last days. to mesmerizing miracles and is going to say, my reason can't grasp it, my thoughts cannot get around it. I cannot explain it. But I'm going to believe it because it wows me We're a I don't know if this is right English, but let me say it the way I'm feeling it. It we're a wowable people. That's just what people seem to live for. You go to these amusement parks, and you know what's all that's about being wild. The rides get bigger, they get scarier. The the the electronics and all of the uh the the animatronics, all of the things that go on get more realistic. Now I remember years ago going down to to um to Disney World And uh we went into the Epcot Center and we rode through that that display and saw all those things and man some of it was so real. I mean you felt like you were actually living uh right in the uh the middle of something that that was just hard to wrap your head around. And now we have we we've gotten the technology to the place to where we can virtually make ourselves think that things that are not real seem real. Is it the Bible Museum they had that helicopter ride? And I couldn't set through about two minutes of it. I got so seasu, not seasick, what do you call it, airsick or whatever, because you're sitting in a seat, you're surrounded by a screen Your seat moves and the sound, and I thought, man, what am I doing in here? I got up and had to leave. Because it made me , I was just about ready to turn green and do the rest. I thought this is insane. My feet never left the ground. But in my mind, in my body, I thought, surely goodness, I'm flying over Washington, D. C. and I knew for sure I was going to fall out of the air. Well somewhere and they they'd take you on a train ride. They did I rode one of those. And I could handle the train ride, but the crazy thing crashes at the end. And man we're chugging down the tracks, I think, man, this is pretty neat, and you get to thinking, because on the sides of this street in this place it's passing by all the scenery and then all of a sudden there's another train coming and man you to start scooting back in your seat and you're like somebody turned this thing around and then wham you hit that other train and Smoke goes up. You wouldn't believe the people that are screaming and crying out. Oh, and they're all dying, you know. We haven't left this room. We're all sitting there safe and sound. But we've been fooled. Our senses have been fooled. Hear me, church. The devil's a master at that. And he's gonna fool the world of peoples with the miracles that he does. I'm going to tell you something. If you don't know your Bible, hear me tonight. If you don't know your Bible, you're on dangerous ground. The only thing you've got standing between you and deception is truth. This is no time to take a man's word for it. This is no time to say, well I believe what the preacher says, because some preachers are snakes. They're just ministers of darkness wrapped in clothes that resemble the light. You better know your Bible. You better be men and women of this book. We don't have time. Listen to me, church, you don't have time to lean on somebody else's knowledge. This is no time to count on the understanding of another. This is no time for you and I to be slack about our noting the no knowing the scriptures. This is no time for you and I to be loose about our Christianity. We better know thus saith the Lord. The one thing that will keep you from being deceived by the miracles of the devil is thus saith the Lord. I read recently of a priest who had gotten saved, and he was went to his head, whoever was over him. I guess it was a cardinal he spoke to. And the cardinal was telling him, look, we all have doubts, we all question the church, and let me begin to tell you some things, begin to share some things with him. And he began to share the history of the Roman Church in honesty, in an honesty perhaps he had never heard before. And he said, as he continued to speak, I heard a faint whisper, By their fruits you shall know them. And he said it was like light flooding into my soul that the continual uh attempts of this man to convince him that the Roman Catholic Church is the true church The Holy Ghost inside of him said, not so, not so, not so, not so. And I'm telling you, dear friend, he did that through the word of God. By their fruits you shall know them. By their fruits you shall know them. God does not communicate in the heavens. Ask Constantine about that. The formation of the cloud, conquering in his name, going under the cross. He started away the terror that was born in hell itself. A miracle, something wow, if you had only believed the Word of God and believed the Bible. I'm saying to you, dear friend. There's a multitude of things that will deceive and destroy us, but we've got a good safeguard in our lives. It is the scripture. It's the Word of God, and the Holy Ghost speaks through the Word of God. He doesn't talk to us in any other way. He doesn't send the birds to communicate a message. You may take a walk tomorrow and a squirrel might wink at you and make gang signs. But it's not listen, it's not God talking through the squirrel. God Almighty speaks through the Word by the Spirit. And when He has something to say, He'll say it through the book. And when he has something to say, he'll say it through the book, and you better have ears to hear what the Spirit saith. And beloved, you need to know your Bible. There's a correlation between. Hearing God's voice and knowing God's word. You say, preacher, I don't hear God speak. Well, let me ask you something. Have you read your Bible lately? I don't hear God communicating to me. Someone said, I want God to speak audibly, then read your Bible out loud. That's an audible voice. This is the voice of God. Brother, sister, know your Bible. Be a student of the Bible. You say, Preacher, I don't teach a Sunday school class. I don't preach messages from the pulpit. Oh no, but you live your life and you need to live it in light of what the Bible says. Whether you're going to preach it or not, teach it or not, you need to know it. Be a student of the Bible. Brother or sister, if I have one point in this message, it would be be a student. Learn your Bible. Read it for yourself. Find out what God's saying. Dig deep in there. Get down into what the scripture says. Compare scripture with scripture. Trace truths from Genesis to Revelation. See the great wonder. You've got a treasure in your lap tonight that is i it's indescribable. There is no wealth on earth as valuable as the Word of God. I like to watch these guys on TV mine for gold. And I'm amazed at what lengths they go to to get it. We're talking about they work long, long, long hours. And they risk their lives a lot of time. And man, they punish their bodies And they're digging and mining a all to get and they'll get a little vial of gold about like that, maybe half full, and man they think it's the greatest thing in the world. It's worth a lot of money. And it's getting more valuable And and and they uh and they they do all of that, they go through all that effort. And I've got a gold mine in my hand I can't get up in the morning and read it and at least hear God say something to me for a minute. Take a little time to do more than just read it and study it and find out what God's going to say. I'm just saying that when the when this monstrous system comes to culmination and fruition, this monstrous system is going to feed itself on the ignorance of men and women who do not know what the Bible says. Or maybe have gotten so depraved in their heart they do not care. And thus they're carted off under a system engineered by the devil. Well, uh the emphasis in these verses is not so much on that revived Roman Empire, but the ruler of that empire. This man of sin will rise to power with the aid of the woman. See, the mother of harlots was exposed first because she's the power force. She's the one who carries this man of sin into a place of power. She will be used by the man of sin to get what he wants. Sounds a lot like politics to me today. Use to get what they want. Amen. I'm here to tell you that these promises are as empty as a tin can bouncing down the road. Hear me. That rise to power is going to be on the fruits and the efforts of this woman, this mother of harlots. And then we see in verses 12 to 18 this ruling power. I want you to see in verses 12 to 13 the coming together, the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings. And I believe this is that revived Roman Empire. It says they have received no kingdom as yet, but received power as kings one hour with the beast. Now look at this. These have one mind and shall give their power and strength unto the beast. This revived Roman Empire will bow together, come together, bow and give allegiance to this beast who will rule over them all. It will be a sub uh a subjection of power in a systematic way. Now understand something. All that framework's in place. All that framework's in place. We see a a political society, a political uh structure. That has subjected itself there once was sovereignty in countries, ours included. But now we we we bow to another assembly, we bow to another power We and and and and and of course this revived Roman Empire, uh uh Empire rather i is is bowing already and is coming together uh under that European Union. And they're coming together and they're giving that power. And there's some people upset about it, but they can't do anything about it. It's like a river that you want to turn that you can't stop And friends in Scotland, and man, you you have never met a people who are more proud of their sovereignty than the Scots. And they're enraged at the authority of this union. And I know they voted and people have exited and all of that, but the structure's there. I'm just saying the structures there, the the the the coming together of societies and this new Roman and and I don't think it's on the earth at this point But I believe the structure is in place for that revived Roman Empire, and they're going to come together and give power to that beast. Notice what their cause is that unites them. In verse 14, these shall make war with the Lamb. That's what they do. They hate the Lamb. Veiled in the background of current rebellion is a rebellion against authority, is a rebellion against personalities, is rebellion against certain policies. But it all boils down to this: there is a hatred for the Lamb of God which takes away the sin of the world. Notice they make war with the Lamb. They hate the Lamb. Do you realize what they're saying? We hate that sacrificial one. That one that said, I'm the only way to heaven If you want to be labeled a bigot, just say Jesus is the only way. If you want to get some label of hatred from this world put on you, just stand up and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. And the reality is, I don't care what relig uh uh uh political affiliation or what it is, that boiling underneath is a hatred For the Lamb of God. And there's going to be a cause that brings these nations together, and they're going to say, We'll make war with the Lamb. We'll join together and make war. Can you imagine puny man thinking he has power to fight Almighty God? Such as the deception of the devil. The devil's going to flood my men's minds with and look, you already see it. Bear with me, would you let me try to get through a little bit more of this? But the the there's there's there's such a delusion that will be sent upon man's mind. We already see it. There are people that are confused about what God has biologically created them. Now I'm not smart. But I do know what I see with my eyes tells me in my heart What's true? I'm trying to be plain and yet polite. The reality is That delusion, darkness. I'm going to tell you something. When men choose darkness over light, that darkness is incredibly bad. When you turn from the way, the truth, and the life, you know what you turn to? You turn to confusion. You turn to darkness. You turn to the devil. You turn to all the delusion that he has to prop propagate and and and to put out. I'm telling you, they'll unite in a cause. This religious system will have a hatred for the Lamb of God. And they'll move. We live in a day of replacement. They replace the Lamb with works and other things. We will soon see the rising of rebellion, not replacement. It will be an outright rebellion. And when they'll say this man will not rise over us, uh rule over us. Notice the coming demise in verses fifteen and sixteen I love verse 14, and I I must mention this. He's the Lord of Lords and King of Kings, and they that are with him are called chosen and faithful. And I love that statement, the lamb shall overcome them. The lamb. Not the lion. He don't have to be the lion in this case. He's the lamb and as lamb, he's still Lord. And the Lamb shall overcome them. This religious system, this monstrous opposition, will be squashed by the Lamb. And by the way, if you're saved, you're right here in the Bible. Do you know that? Because it says they that are with him are called chosen and faithful. There's a crowd that'll be with that lamb when he comes down to make war. And that crowd, I'm looking at some of them. That crowd is going to be you and I who are saved by the grace of God. We'll be uh viewers, we'll be uh uh watching and we'll see this great battle unfold. But I want you to notice this coming to my, as I'm talking about the mother of harlots, she's going to be devoured from the inside. Because verse fifteen and sixteen says, He saith unto me, The waters which thou sawest where the horse sitteth are peoples, multitudes, nations, and tongues. And the ten horns which thou thawst upon the beast, these shall hate the whore, and shall make her desolate, naked, shall eat her flesh and burn her with fire. So this religious system that brings to power this ruling person is going to be turned on by those people. And they're going to devour her. Notice what it says that they're going to do to her as they take her apart. It says that they're going to hate her, they're going to despise her. See, the devoted are going to turn and they're going to make her desolate. They're going to take her wealth. And then notice that word naked. That word in Revelation means exposed. They're going to expose. I'll tell you what the man of sin is going to do. He's going to publish the most honest record of the atrocities of religion that you've ever read in your life. He's going to expose it. Here's that evil system. That system that deceives you, that system that that that that that has uh devoured poor people and witness houses and all of that. It's going to be exposed and all the wickedness of that evil system is going to be published across the land. They're going to turn. They're turning power. They're turning the people. And then they're going to eat her flesh and burn her with fire. They're going to judge her. We're talking about this mother of harlots, this religious system. It's going to be destroyed. It's going to be devoured. By that ruling man of sin. He's going to turn. And that's why he calls her a harlot. When he's used her, he's done with her. And he's going to devour her. Church, hear me tonight. God has more ways than one to take care of evil. And often he uses the devil to do his own business. He sure does. Now look at the conclusion. Verse 17. For God hath put in their hearts to fulfill his will, and to agree, and give their kingdom unto the beast, until the words of God shall be fulfilled. And the woman which thou sawest is that great city which reigneth over the kings of the earth. I want you to notice in this conclusion, God is still sovereign. Practical reasons can be clearly seen as to why this mother of harlots is completely destroyed. But practicality doesn't rule the day. Providence does. God will put it in their hearts to fulfill his will. You know what this tells me? He's still on the throne. He's still in charge. He's calling the shots. The man of sin is using the religious systems of the world to prepare a bride for himself, a follower for the devil, and as he brings it all together, God is just putting the pieces in their places. And he's put it in their heart to fulfill his will. Don't let fear of what's to come Rob you of the peace that knows God's still in charge. Don't let the terror and and the and and and and the as we understand more of this I'll tell you sometimes my heart trembles as I study this. And the more you you you start to see what's coming it, you you almost get an an anxiousness on the inside and and and yet I'm grateful for these little nuggets planted all through the revelation. That God's putting us in their heart. That God's on the throne. He's the Lord. The Lamb is the Lord of Lords. He's the King of Kings. He's the one in charge. I'll tell you there's some big old powerful people think they got the tiger by the tail tonight, and they don't even know that it's God in heaven who's in charge. I think of some great leaders in the past, powerful men. You think about Pharaoh, you think about Nebuchadnezzar, you think about all these people that had the world at their at their table. and the world at their lap and they could do what they wanted to. But yet they did not do what they wanted to. They did what God wanted them to. Because He's in charge. You dear precious brothers and sisters, pillow your head tonight on the great truth that God is still God. He's still on the throne. He's still in charge. Hell may rage, the devil may roar, the lion may stall, but God sits on his throne. And he's still the one who's calling the shots. And he'll do it right to the end. He'll do it right then. Even when the man of sin looks like he's got the things covered, he's ruling the earth. He's devoured that religious system now. He is the power. God says, I put it in his heart. I'm the one that's in calling the shots. I'm glad that I know him as my Savior. I'm glad I know he's the dearest friend I have on this earth. I'm glad I know I've got one in whom I've believed, and I know I am persuaded he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day I'm grateful that he is is still the God I pray to is the God who's calling the orders, who's given the orders. It may look like in your life and mine sometimes that the devil's one It may look like that he's got the upper hand. It may look like that he's called the shots for the day. You just remember this. There's a God of heaven that can take the wrath of man and make it praise him. There is a God in heaven who will take the evil of this world and work it for his ends. There is a God in heaven who still rules. Though the devil roars, he is still the Lord. And bow and worship him. God 's decrees are the blueprints for time, not man's evil schemes. I'd go hide in my house, buy as much ammunition as I could, lock my doors, and build me a fort. We'd call it Fort Jones Chapel. If you behave, Richard, I might let you in before it. And hide till Jesus comes, if I didn't believe that God's decrees have already drawn the blueprint. And God's determinations will be exactly what's done on this earth. Not the devil's desires, not evil man's schemes But the Almighty's wisdom. We're going to step into eternity and we're going to realize, oh How deep, broad, wonderful is the great wisdom of God. And as you stand and as we sit, I believe we'll be on those horses. I have no other reason to believe it's anything else But when we gather around that great valley and see him speak and destroy the enemy, we'll sing praises to God in heaven that he is who he said he was. I don't know that we'll not have a measure of memory to say, I read that in the Bible. I read that in the Bible. I knew it was coming. Hallelujah, Lord, it's here. Thank the Lord. And we'll praise and bless his name forever because God has done exactly what he said he'll do. Don't let the devil make you a doubter when you ought to be a believer. The safe way home is through the scriptures, strong in faith. May God make us such. Stand with me please. Father, thank you for the word for Jesus for your faithfulness. Father