Chapter number fifteen. And when you find your place in verse number twelve, would you stand with me please and we'll honor the reading of God's Word in that way this morning. John chapter number fifteen and verse number twelve And we're going to read down to verse number seventeen. The Bible says, beginning in verse 12 of John 15, This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. Ye are my friends if ye do whatsoever I command you. Henceforth I call you not servants, for the servant knoweth not what his Lord doeth, but I have called you friends For all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you. Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you that ye should go and bring forth fruit. And that your fruit should remain. That whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father, in my name, He may give it you. These things I command you that ye love one another My text this morning is verse number 13. And again the Bible says, greater love hath no man than this. That a man lay down his life for his friends. Let's pray. Father, again we come in Jesus' name, and we certainly need your help this morning. We ask, O Lord, that you'd speak to us right where we are. And Lord, I pray you'd meet the deep need of every heart that's gathered. Lord, I pray for the lost to be saved. I pray for the saved to draw close. I pray for the backslidden in heart to be revived, refreshed, and renewed, Lord, and drawn home. And I pray above it all the Lord Jesus would be glorified and lifted up. I pray that the eyes, Lord, of each one of us would be fixed afresh on who Christ is and what he's done. And Lord, for what you do, we'll thank you and praise you because we ask it now in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. We're recognizing Memorial Day this morning, knowing it is, of course, a holiday celebrated tomorrow. A day that's very rich in meaning, and I think it's something that needs to be passed on to the next generation. That we are a people that are free, but our freedom came at such a high price. And the principle is clear here in the Word of God that there's no greater love than a man lay down his life for his friends, and countless thousands, hundreds of thousands. of brave soldiers have laid down their lives for you and for us. We think about this and you think about uh the the fact that we're free today because of the sacrifice of another And the Bible says it's a principle, it's the highest expression of love that we know about. Somebody lay their life down on our behalf. But yet there's more than a principle in this text. The fact is, Jesus spoke these words. These words are more than principles. These words for him were prophetic. For they spoke of something to come. They spoke of the sacrifice that He would make for you and for I to be saved. And the Lord helping me, I want to preach on this ultimate sacrifice that the Lord Jesus made on our behalf. You and I need to be reminded this morning that blood bought our freedom. Blood has bought our spiritual freedom, and I'm thankful for a national freedom. But do you realize there are places around the world that our freedom is not recognized? You find yourself in a communist country or where uh Islam dominates, and you say, well, I'm a citizen of the United States of America, and that doesn't mean anything. That freedom's not recognized there. But I'm glad to report to you there's a freedom that defies national and international boundaries There is a freedom that you can have even sitting in the four walls of a prison. It's the freedom that comes in knowing Jesus Christ as your personal Savior and Lord. The Bible says that you shall know the truth, and the truth shall what? Thank God for the freedom that there is in the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. You can bind the man's body, you can put uh iron chains around his arms and hands and feet, but I'm glad to report to you that bound man can be more free than the free man is, because he knows Christ as his Savior. Many of our forefathers went uh through great martyrdom and and suffered terribly in different places simply uh because of their faith in Christ. And yet they weren't bound. They might have been outwardly bound, but thank God they were free in Jesus Christ. Now there's freedom this morning you and I need to consider. There's a lot of men today in our country who think they're free, but they're the devil's slave They're bound in sin. And sin's a horrible prison to be locked up in, and every man who doesn't know Jesus is locked up in that prison. And there is a free I'm glad there's someone who can set you free though And it's not, listen my friend, it is the Lord Jesus Christ. Now think with me this morning about several things that are seen in this text. I want you to notice, number one, the motivation for this sacrifice. What moved Christ to die? What is it that made him lay down his life for his friends? Well, the text spells it out. Greater love. A greater love. Now I know it says that a greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. But the scripture is pointing us to a greater love. There's a greater love. There's a love earth knows nothing of except it look back at Calvary. And Romans chapter 5. Listen to these words. Romans chapter 5, verse 6. For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. Yet peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die. But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us Much more than, being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. Church, that's love. That's the greatest love known to mankind, the love that we see demonstrated on the cross of Calvary. Now you think about the love of God in the Lord Jesus. There's no greater love ever known. I believe there's no greater love because, number one, it's universal. John 3. 16 says, For God so loved too the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. There's no greater love than that. There's not a place this love don't go. There's not a people, a race, a language, a nation. There's not a dark corner of the earth barely inhabited where the love of God does not reach Every sinner is a candidate for salvation for God's love is a universal love. You say he don't love me Now the problem is that we define God's love by the circumstances we experience. We say, well, if he loved me, why did this happen, or why did that happen? I don't have an answer for that, but here's what I do know. Two thousand years ago, God erected a monument on a hill called Calvary. And there he established his love for all mankind, for all of time and eternity. And I only have to look back to Calvary and see I'm loved with an everlasting love. I only have to see the blood run down Calvary's hill and know that I'm loved with a love I cannot understand. I'm loved with a love that is greater and deeper and further. Listen, a love that is That that goes beyond my sin and the stain that my sin left behind. Thank God for a universal love in the Lord Jesus Christ. There's no greater love. Maybe you've been loved well. I hope you have. You've been loved by a mother or a father or a husband or a wife or a child or a grandchild. But I've got news for you. You've never been loved like you were loved. By the Lord Jesus Christ. Only He has a no greater love. Not only is His love universal, but His love is unequaled. It's an unequalled love. It is a love that if you took all the loves of the world and bound them up in in some package or something All of that would pale in comparison to the love of God in Christ Jesus. I mean, you think about all of the love that's been expressed. I mean, you you think about how you grandparents, think about how those grandkids love you. And they they love you like no other. And maybe uh maybe it's not a a grandchild you're thinking about. Uh you know, someone said a dog's the only thing That loves you so much. You could take that dog, you could put him up somewhere, lock him in the trunk of the car, open the thing, and he'll be glad to see you. Now do that to your wife and you'll see how much she loves you I don't recommend it, but I'm just saying. It's an unequalled kind of love. The love of God is unequaled. You you there's that this love is so higher and broader and greater and and that no wonder Paul prayed that they might know, those Ephesian believers might know the love of Christ, the width and the breadth and the depth and the height. Because it's such an unequalled love. It defies our understanding. Just when you think you've got it figured out, here he comes along and shows you something, and you say, Well, he loved me more than I understood. And I believe in heaven, heaven's going to be an unveiling. An unveiling of God's great love for us And we're going to, I don't know that we'll get into all of it up there or understand it completely, but here's what I do know. His love is unequaled. Paul said there'll be some people who would die for a righteous man. There'll be others that would die for a good man. But God didn't do that. He died for a sinner man. He died for the ungodly man. He died for the wicked and the vile and the unclean. That's all of us, my friend, without the blood of Jesus applied. That's all of us. That describes everybody here who's not been saved. But thank God he loved us in that condition. His love is unequaled. Let me say this quickly. Number three, his love is unending. The love of God does not have an expiry date. Doesn't have an expiry day. The love of God will never run out. The love of God, my friend, listen, will not be exhausted. You say, too many people in the world. There's some people that think there's the population's too big and they gotta do something to whittle it down. I don't know what they're worried about. God in heaven said there'll be seed time and harvest and He'll see to life sustained on this planet. He that's not my problem. That's not your problem. It's in his control. But the truth of the matter is, is that the love of God will not end if there's ten billion people live on the planet. You'll not exhaust his love. You'll not exhaust his love. You say, but preacher, I failed the Lord. Aren't you glad his love's unending? I fall short of the glory of God. That's what the Bible says about all of us, that we fall short of God's glory, but his love's unending. God's love does not have uh a measuring amount. You you don't find in the Word of God that God's love is measured by ton, or it's measured by mile, or it's measured by uh by any other way, you'll find that it's an unending thing. Just when you think that you've d used it all, discovered it all, I imagine That prodigal son sitting down in the hog pen said, Well, I the father won't love me. I believe he believed that, because he said, I don't want to be a son anymore. I've I've lost that right. I forfeited that right. I just want to be a servant And I'll go home and be a servant. He don't have to love me to be a servant, but maybe if you'll just let me live in close quarters. And I'm glad to report to you when that boy got home. He didn't he wasn't made a servant. He was restored as a son. And he was loved as if he never left. Now that's love. Church, that's unending love. And my friend, I'm glad the love of God's greater than the oceans, all of the earth put together. You can't exhaust it. You can't exasperate it. It's unending love. The problem with many here today, and listening maybe to my voice, is that you measure the love of God in the little bucket of the love of man. And you've tried to imagine going down to the Atlantic Ocean and taking a five-gallon bucket and say, I'm going to measure how many gallons are in this big pond. And you stand there and you dip and dip and dip and dip, and you know what you'll find out? You'll dip yourself war out. Because you cannot measure the Atlantic Ocean with the five-gallon bucket. You can't measure it with a 5,000-gallon bucket. It's like an unending, but I'll tell you, there's somewhere a measurement of the waters. You know where it's at in the hands of the Lord. Isaiah said he measured the waters in the hollow of his hand. He's got it measured. He knows the number. But I'm telling you the love of God can't be measured It's an unending thing, man. It's bigger and greater and deeper and wider than anything you can comprehend. Oh, listen, there is no greater love. What nailed him on Calvary? What held him there suffering the shame and the reproach of sin? What made him take the wrath of God and drink it right to the very bottom of the dregs? What made the Lord Jesus become sin who knew no sin? so that we could be made the righteousness of God. It wasn't the threat of a Roman soldier with a spear held up. It wasn't the swords of the of Rome. It wasn't the hatred of the Jew. It was the mighty love of God for sinners lost, knowing there's no other way for you to be redeemed except by this great sacrifice, motivated by love. When I think of the ultimate sacrifice, I've got to think about the great love of God for sinners like you and me. Don't ever get over it. Don't ever take it for granted. Don't ever say, well, I've heard it my whole life. Well, hear it the rest. And and rejoice in it throughout because listen, the only reason if you're saved this morning, can I say this? The only reason that you're going to heaven The only reason that you've got hope of sin forgiven and hell don't yawn in waiting to receive and destroy and damn and devastate you The only reason that, my friend, you'll never hear, depart, I never knew you. The only reason that you'll not suffer throughout all of eternity With those that are damned and doomed forever, is because God loved your soul and shed his blood to save you from your sin. That's the only reason. That's the only reason And God's holy name be praised for the great sacrifice motivated by love. He didn't have to do it. That makes it even better. Somebody I had a man tell me one time, he said, I didn't ask him to do that. I said, Isn't that wonderful? Don't you like things that are done for you when nobody asks? When you're not told? I mean it's one thing to be told. You need to do this Or or to do it out of just mere duty, but it's another thing when it's done out of love. I'm just doing it because I love you. There's no other motivation When you look at Calvary, I don't care what your circumstances are saying, or the devil or people around you, or the culture that we live in says, I've got news for you. You can't go back 2,000 years. See Jesus, the Son of God, hanging on the cross. Watch him suffer, bleed, and die, and walk away and say, Nobody loves me. Listen, it may be the sad lot of your life that no human being does, but there's a God in heaven who does, and the Lord Jesus loves you with an everlasting, unending, unequaled love. Know that, my friend. It's the truth of the Bible. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. Now look at the man here, because he's getting right particular now. I know the principle is here, but the text is very prophetic because he speaks of a particular man. You say, how do you know that? Because verse 14, after he says No greater love hath no man than this that a man lay down his life for his friends. Verse 14, he says, You're my friends. So reason tells me he's going to lay down his life. Reason tells me he's talking about himself. See, many men have died for a country They tell me, and and I guess the number is quite difficult to really put together, that nearly 1. 5 million, possibly plus, soldiers have died protecting the freedom of this country. Isn't that amazing? That they've laid their life down somewhere, some foreign soil, some on home soil Have laid down their life to protect us. People die for a country. While their people will die for a cause. There's people who will die for a cause. They're willing to lay their life down. They're willing to risk it all for a cause. They tell me that some of the high mountains of the world that people try to scale are littered with the bodies of people who've attempted to climb and failed. They're dying for a cause. They want to reach a summit. They want to get to a top. Do you know there are people that die for a cult? They'll die for a cult. They'll lay their lives down for a lie of the devil. And they'll die. They'll die. But here is a death that's like no other. This man died and faced death like nobody ever has. The Bible tells me that Christ died for sinners. In 1 Timothy 1, verse 15, we read these words. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation. That Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. He didn't die for a country, he didn't die for a cause He certainly didn't die for a cult. He died for the lost person, the sinner, the wicked, the ungodly, the undone. That's who he died for. That was his concern in death. He was not dying for his own sin. He wasn't dying for simply as a martyr. And he certainly wasn't murdered. He was dying for the sins of the world. We see his concern. But can I remind you of something else about this man? He not only was concerned about sinners, but he was in control of his death. He was in control of his death. Go back to John chapter 10. Now no man died like Jesus died. No man ever faced death like Jesus faced death. In John chapter number ten, look what the Bible says in verse 17. Therefore doth my father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down on myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father. Now, church, you need to know something. You need to know that he had control over death. Do you know Jesus could never have I mean he the Bible says the soul that sinneth, it shall die. Jesus would have never died had he not decreed it and determined it I don't care how many swords pierced him. I don't care how many nails they drove in him. I don't care how many thorns that they pierced his brow with. There was no way for Jesus to die except he dismissed his spirit. He had control, absolute control. We read in the Word of God that when that moment came, he cried, it is finished. He bowed his head and gave up the ghost. That means in another gospel that he dismissed his spirit, that he was in absolute control. He wasn't a martyr or murdered. He was master even in his death. For in his death he surrendered and said, I give up the ghost. No man ever died like that. Now you can talk about people dying for different things, but no one's ever died in such fashion. Not only do I see his concern and I see his Control, but I sure love this. I see as conquering death. The Bible says over here in Revelation 1, we're many years past the crucifixion. Many years past the burial. John's on the Isle of Patmos, and Jesus says this, I am he that liveth and was dead. Now, I'm not an English scholar as you can well tell. But I've got enough sense to know if something was something, it ain't no more. Alright? It's just not anymore. Listen, he was dead. That means, listen, he was dead, but he's not dead no more I am he that was dead. Look, I am he that liveth and was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And have the keys of hell and death. That means he took over. Amen. He's got the keys. He took over. Thank God he conquered death. No man ever faced death like this No man ever faced death like this. Buddha didn't do that. Muhammad didn't do that. Uh Confucius didn't do that. You go down the long list of of religious relics and all you'll find are dead men somewhere in the grave. But I'm glad to report to you Jesus sitting dead and he's not in the grave. He's alive and he's alive forevermore. And he the reason we got hope around here this morning is because he's alive. He conquered death. The cross wasn't the end of the story, it was really a beginning. And thank God he won over death. He's got the keys. That's why God's little children, when it comes time to die, do it without fear. I'm reading some sermons, old D. L. Moody preached up in New York City. He preached 50 evenings, 50 evenings in New York and tried to win men and women to Jesus Christ. And he gave testimony on the sixth evening. He gave testimony about his own experience. He said, when I was a boy, I was scared to death to die. He said the churches of that day had a way of letting the community know who died and how old they were. He said when somebody would die, they would ring the death bell. And he said then would follow the ringing of how many years old, if a person was four years old or ten years old or seventy. He said, I remember laying in my bed and counting the number of rings. And thinking that one's 70, I've got time. Or thinking that one was 80, I've got time. He said when they died near his age, he said, I couldn't sleep for days. Because I was afraid to die. He said it was that way, he said, until someone told me about Jesus. And he said, when I got saved, he said, I noticed that the fear of death was taken away. You know why? Because the one that saved you conquered death. It does get better farther along. That's what the kids were singing about this morning. Farther along, it may get worse for a sinner, but my friend, if you're saved, you're not a sinner no more. It gets better farther along. Thank God we got a bright day coming. Heaven's real. It's not the figment of our imagination or a religious creation. It's the reality of everyone who's born again. Listen, heaven's going to cure everything. You might be sitting here sick and crippled up and broke down and just trying to get through the day. I've got news for you, you're going to land where that won't happen no more. Imagine no more Advil for pain or Tylenol or whatever it is and a proxin or I'm not advertising them for those outfits. I'm just trying to name some of the stuff that I know God's little people have to live on sometimes. That's that's no more. If you're saved, that's no more. Further along it's just going to get better And listen, when it comes the time to cross, it comes time to die, you are not going to face death alone. You may die alone physically. There may not be a soul around you. But I'm glad to report to you the God of heaven will show up to escort you into his presence, and there you shall ever be with the Lord. That's what the Bible says. And I can believe that based on the fact that Jesus conquered death when they put him in the grave, and three days later he arose again. We see this man who faced death. Now let me quickly bring this to a close and get you to look at the message that was delivered here. Look at the message of this text, John 15, 13 Greater love hath no man than this, that a man laid down his life for his friends. Now you might be asking the question, who's his friends? Well, he goes on to explain in verses 14 and 15 and 16. He says, year, my friends, if you do whatsoever I command you. By the way, that's not a threat or a bargain. That's the reality of the new birth. The transformed life of a Christian. You know, one of the ways I know I'm saved is because I want to please the Lord. Does that mean I always do? Sadly not. But I'll tell you I got a burning desire in my heart, God put there. And and it grows as I grow in the Lord. And he says, henceforth I call you not servants, for the servant know not what his Lord doeth, but I've called you friends, for all things that I've heard of my Father I have made known unto you. You know, he's letting us know that his death was intentional and beneficial. What did he accomplish? What's the message of his death? Why the sacrifice? What did he do when he laid down his life? Well, I want you to see three things real quick. Number one, he made a way for your sin to be forgiven. He made a way for your sin to be forgiven. A very prominent psychologist said he believed That he could empty America 's psychiatric hospitals if he could convince the majority that they had been forgiven. Think about it. If he could convince them that they had been forgiven Do you know the great weight of life as a sinner is that there's so much to be forgiven There's so much that needs forgiving. Where do we find forgiveness? Religion says, well, you find it in doing thus and so. Fill in the blanks. It's the religion of do. You gotta do something. Well, you gotta go to church, you gotta read your Bible, you gotta dress right, you gotta act right, you gotta live right, and all of those things. Listen to me. That doesn't get your sin forgiven. That doesn't get your sin removed. I love what Acts 13 says. Acts 13 and verse 38. Be it known unto you, therefore, men and brethren, that through this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins. And by him all that believe are justified from all things from which you could not be justified by the law of Moses. You can take all the laws of the religions of the world and Baptists got their laws. You can take Baptist laws and Methodist laws and Catholic laws and Presbyterian laws, and you can line all those laws up until they circle the earth ten times over, and not one of them will justify you before God or remove the awful weight of sin. But one trip to Calvary where the blood was shed. Oh my friend, get your sin washed eternally away, and the load lifted from your soul. Aren't you glad for that? There's forgiveness to be found. In the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, the the the Pharisees, you remember what they said in Matthew 11? He's a friend. I can almost see them curl their old rotten noses when they do it. He's a friend of publican and sinners. One old writer said, I believe it's William J. , said their scandal published his reputation. I like that. There's it was a scandal, Andy. It was a scandal. He's a friend of publicans and sinners. I'm glad the sinners got a friend. He would be in trouble and I'd be in trouble if a sinner didn't have a friend. There's not a friend like the lowly Jesus. No, not one, no, not one I'm here to report to you, my friend, that there is a friend that sticks closer than a brother. Jesus is that dear friend. And you need to know, you need to know this morning that the sinner's got a friend. The church may scowl, the Christian may frown, but Jesus received sinful men. Forgiveness is found for his friends. There's forgiveness. I hear someone say, but Pastor, you don't know what I've done. Don't need to. I don't need to. I don't know what good it does to people. I old preacher friend of mine used to say, Why go confess your sin to a knot head through a knothole who can't do one thing about it? What good's it gonna do? You're not gonna get any help come and tell them the preacher you sinned. A bunch of young preachers and I were with an older preacher and some of them started telling their meanness. And boy, he got mad. He stopped him. He said, What do I look like? He said, I can't do anything about it. He said, get on your knees and talk to the Lord. He's the one that'll help you. He's the one that'll cleanse you. He's the one that'll change you. Listen, friend, there's forgiveness in this man Christ Jesus That's the message of the sacrifice. When you look at Calvary, you don't look in just mere pity. You look for pardon. There's where your pardon was secured on Calvary's dark heel. But note here in that same text of Acts 13, not only is forgiveness found, but it's found when faith is exercised. Look what he says, and by him, verse 39, all that believe, all that believe, all that believe Are justified from all things, from which you could not be justified by the law of Moses. You say, but preacher, I I gotta do something, surely. You've done enough already, you've sinned. You can't do anything but believe. This is a work, but it's not a work because there's no work in believing. The reality is we take God at His Word, and when you take God at His Word, He stands true to His Word, and He saves all who believe. I know I've told you this, but I find people struggle. I struggle with my salvation, being sure. Just being sure. I wanted to be sure. Most important thing I've got's my soul. The most important thing you have, I don't care what you own or drive or live in or possess or have the title to, none of that's worth a hill of beans or a row of pins compared to your soul. That all of that stuff will be gone when your soul is still in eternity somewhere. All of it. All of it. You sat and polished that little god in your driveway, and I've got news for you, it's gonna be rust in a few decades. Decades. Man, they don't even last that long anymore. I should say a decade. All of these little gods, things that we put such value in, none of that, none of that is the same value as your soul. And I wanted to be sure I didn't want to go to hell. I wanted to be saved by the grace of God. I heard the message. But I had also heard a lot of other stuff. By the way, best thing to do is plug ears to me and open them to God. Because people have a lot of foolish ideas when it comes to going to heaven. And the best thing is get it right from the mouth of the author, on the pages of the book. And from the pages of the book I began to search. I thought, well, I heard an old man get up and say, When I got saved, I shouted and ran. Well, I didn't do that. That wasn't my nature. That wasn't my personality. I'm backward and shy. And then I'll tell you, I snuck down to the altar, and when I got saved, I got up and snuck back to my seat. And I was not ashamed of the Lord, but I was embarrassed, you know, as a person. That's just who I was. And I remember driving home that morning and man I couldn't keep my tears in. I was just so broken and so I was grateful and I didn't know all that was happening in my heart. And my dear mother heard me. We drove an old Dodge Pickup extended cab. It was probably 32 feet long, if I remember right. Great big long. You remember them old trucks? And I was sitting on the little jump seat behind the main seat, sitting on daddy's toolbox And I was sitting back there, of course, no seat belts, and they didn't worry about stuff like that. It was survival of the fittest in that day. I mean, if you lived, you lived. If you didn't, you didn't. They didn't worry much about it. But I remember mom turning around. Dad stopped the store to get some gasoline. She said, What's wrong with you? And I just quietly said, Mom, I asked the Lord to save me. Boy, those tears just, I I couldn't hold it back. But I didn't have the experience I heard. I heard all these experiences And then as a 13-year-old boy, a dear evangelist, got up, and I don't fault him, but he said these words. He said, If you can't remember what you prayed, you're lost. And I couldn't remember what I prayed. Couldn't couldn't remember the words. Boy, I struggled. I really got under some mental stress trying to remember what did I say? Did I say the right thing? Did I pray the right prayer? What were the words that I spoke to the Lord? And that put me in a spiritual tailspin. And for three years I struggled. Am I saved? I don't know if I'm saved. And I'll oh, I praise God for the day when a very brazen old preacher knelt down. And after me coming to the altar probably a hundred and fifty times, he said, What do you need God to do? I said, I don't know if I'm saved. He says, What do you mean you don't know you're saved? I said, Preacher, I want to be saved. I know Christ died for my sin. I know he shed his blood On the cross. I know that. I I believe that. I I'm counting on that. But I don't have what I hear other people talk about, this this experience. I don't have some story to tell. I was only eight years old when I cried out to the Lord. And he stopped me. He said, What are you trusting in right now? And I just simply said, Jesus. Just Jesus. And that old man looked in my face and I can see his stare now. He said, then just go to hell, trust in Jesus. Now some of you are a bit refined, you wouldn't do that. But I'm glad he did it, because it shook me to my bones. I got up out of that altar and I went back to my seat and I thought, go to hell trust in Jesus. Who does that old man not know his Bible? You don't go to hell trusting Jesus. Nobody perishes believing on the Lord Jesus Christ, and like that it dawned on me. You big dummy. You're not going to heaven because you remember what you pray. You're not going to heaven because of something you've done. It's in the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh beloved, know this. Faith must be exercised. Then let me just say this and I'm through. This message is a message simply that it is finished. The work's done. You can take the religions of the world and put them in two categories. I don't care what denomination or whatever name you put on them. There's a religion that says do. D-O. Do. And there is the real thing called done. Jesus cried, it's finished. I'm glad he didn't say I'm finished. He said it's finished. He was finished. Salvation, salvation was secure. There's nothing else to do. He don't need a hand He don't need assistance. He don't need your contribution. He don't need your good works. He don't need your tears. He don't need your prayer. He don't need all the efforts we often frame and form and make them spiritual sounding, saying I gotta do this to help him out. No, my friend. All he needs you to do is come to him by faith. He's done it all. You take what he's done and you receive the gift of eternal life. He's the giver of eternal life, and you can't get it any other way. A lot of Baptists are going to miss hell because they're good Baptists and not saved. They've done everything the Baptist told them to do. They've got and look, I'm a Baptist by conviction, so don't look at me so weird I'm convicted Baptist by the Bible. The Bible's made me a Baptist. But I've got news for you, my friend. There's a lot of Baptist things we say uh that that are a part of salvation. The only thing that is required for salvation is to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. Amen. Thou shalt be saved. I love Mr. Spurgeon's testimony. He tells how he struggled with repentance, he struggled with mourning, he struggled with all these things. And it wasn't until a very simple and uneducated Methodist minister stood, a lay minister, and said, Look! Well he said it began to dawn on me. It's that simple. I'm looking away not from what I'm doing down here mourning over sin. And listen, the work of the Spirit of God will make you mourn over sin. You you won't you won't be if if God's convicting your heart of sin, you're going to be troubled over your sin. You won't be enjoying it. You won't be walking in it, just chewing, chewing gum and blowing bubbles and saying, What a happy day You'll be broken over the reality I'm lost. Without God, no hope, and Jesus, you're my only hope. That's the work of the Holy Ghost, not of man. Man don't do that work. Yet, my friend, listen, when he realized all I gotta do is look at the Savior. And looked at the Savior, and he said, I at that moment, at that moment, I began to look And when I look, I look. Remember when Moses walked through the children of Israel and they've been bit by the serpent. And listen, he didn't tell them to get up and put bandages on. He didn't walk through the camp and man, a lot of them had been bit because they had murmured and sinned against God and they were dying. They were dying from this bite. And as he walks among that multitude of dying men and women, he held up that brazen serpent and he said, Look and live. That was his message. That's all he said, look and live. And the Bible says that every man who looked lived. Everyone who looked and looked at that provision was healed from that sickness or healed from that bite of the serpent. And they did not die. And Jesus is the same way. All I'm trying to do is stand up here and say, Look, look and live. Look to the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't look to Marinatha Baptist Church, you'll go to hell trusting her. Don't look to the waters of baptism, you'll perish in hell over it. Don't look to your little memorized prayer. Or the program or three steps or whatever it is. Look to Jesus because Jesus only can save you, and if you'll look to him, you'll live. That's the only way to live. If you look to him by faith. My friend, nobody's ever come to God and believed on Jesus Christ and perished. None. None. Look, it's awful simple. It's not a complicated thing. Us simple folk ought to thank God for it. Those of us that probably wouldn't be scoring in the high categories of intellect ought to thank God he made it easy for us to get saved. But don't let your high intellect keep you out of heaven's gates simply because you think you're smarter than God, the God of the universe who gave you your intelligence, commands you to humble yourself like a little child and believe on Jesus Christ and be saved. Oh listen my friend, God's made the ground level so that all can come in. Now will you? Will you look Will you look to Christ? Stop looking at your church. Some of you are prouder of your membership than you are of your salvation. Look away from that. That membership won't get you nowhere Friend of ours, you know him, brother see. A friend of ours got his got his second doc doctorate degree this week. Old Chuck. You know him. He's Maine 's curmudgeon. Old Chuck Barnes. And he made this state. This is his second earned degree. His second earned degree. Say, what does he do? He's a logger. Pastors the church, little church on Mount Desert Island right now, I think is where he's at. Loves God and serves him. He got his second urn doctrine. He said he he joked on Facebook. He said I can take this one and the first one and take about three dollars and get me a donut down at the shop. You carry that membership around and wear it like a badge, I got news for you. It don't make heaven available. Doesn't open heaven's gates. You can sit on a church pew fifty years and die and go to hell from a church pew You can call yourself whatever you want to call yourself, but at the end of the day, the only way we're going to heaven is because of what Christ did on Calvary. Now, what are you trusting in? That ultimate sacrifice? We're honoring, and we should honor, and we do honor. We do honor the great sacrifice made for this country. That flag means something. I want it to mean something around here. We we stand and recognize it. We honor it. We know this thing tells a tale. This thing tells a story. And my friend, it's a story that's dripping with the blood of brave men and women. That's a story worth telling again and again and again. But I hope something else tells the story. It's the greatest story that's ever been told And my friend, it's not embellished by time or man. It's the reality that Christ died for our sins. He was buried and he rose again the third day. My friend, it's the message that'll keep you out of hell. If you'll believe on Christ. But let me just warn you, it's the message that will condemn you on that great day if you reject it. Because Christ has gave the warning. He's made the way. I said to a man this week, I said, Sir, what's keeping you from being saved? I just want to know. You know the gospel as good as I do? You've heard it longer than I have because you're older? Tell me one thing is keeping you from being saved. There's nothing on God's side, He's already paid everything. He's made the way. The cross made the way. I said, What's keeping you from being saved? And he looked up And he thought and he was quiet for the longest, and finally he said, You know, not one thing. I said, That's good. Can I ask you, what's keeping you from being saved? What's keeping you from being saved By the way, it's not up to you to do anything. Christ paid the price. Trust him. But what's keeping you from being saved? Why will you go to hell? Why will you sit on a church pew and hear the message and die and go to hell? Why don't you listen to the gospel and die and go to hell? Do you know what a tragedy that is? Now let me say a word to the brother, sister, brother, sister in Christ. Who are you living for? You see, somebody paid a price for you, and I'll tell you what makes me want to be a good citizen of my country is those brave people that shed their blood so I could be free. You're not going to catch this preacher kneeling like a coward when the flag goes up. You're not gonna you're not gonna I look there's a lot wrong with my country. We need God. We need God in a bad way. And I believe, my friend, the the the clouds of judgment are gathering thick for this land. But I'm still proud that God in his sovereign wisdom let me born it be born in this country. I don't know why he chose that. I'm glad he did. I'm glad I had the privilege to grow up a free boy. I I was able to go to school and learn and grow and and listen, we went to church and and and could go freely. I'm there's so much I'm thankful for. So much I'm thankful for. But greater than that, somebody paid my sin debt. My life's not mine There are things there are times I say, Lord, I want to do, and the Lord says, well, go ahead, but it's not your life. I'm bought with a price. I'm to glorify God in my body, my spirit. And listen, I don't belong to me. And if you're saved, you don't belong to you. You're his. Are you living for him? The old hymn writer said it best when he wrote, Jesus, faded all, all to him I owe. I owe a debt. Paul said, I'm a debtor. He was a debtor to grace. He owed a debt. He lived his whole life trying to pay it. Not for it, but from it. You don't pay back salvation, you can't. But you live for God because you are saved. You live your life because He He pardoned you and set you free and did what nobody else could do. You know what that does? That takes the drudgery out of it. That puts delight in your duty as you serve the Lord. You know why? Because Lord, I don't know why you'd love me like that, but I'm going to live for you because you did. And Lord, I don't know why you died for me like you did on the cross, but I'll tell you what, I'm going to live for you all the days I got. Be they many or few. They're yours. They're yours. I take my hands off. They're yours. Listen to me. There are some of you who are saved and you're miserable. Because you won't take your hands off your life. You need to just let the Lord be the Lord and let Him have control and say, Hey, it's not my life, it's yours. I don't call the shots, you're God, I'm not. And bow the knee. What a blessing when you bow the knee. I don't know what you say. What what God God may send me to some some foreign country. He may, but more than likely he'll just send you home to act right. Live for the Lord. Go to your job tomorrow and point people to Jesus. Who's in charge? Who are you living for? Would you stand with me please? Jesus