Please this morning and go with me to Psalm 26. Psalm 26. And I'm going to read one verse in your hearing. It is verse number seven. And when you find that, would you stand with me please? as we honor the reading of God's Word. Psalm 26. I would urge you to read the entire Psalm, but for sake of time and emphasis this morning, I want to focus on the one. In Psalm 26 and verse 7, the scriptures read this way: that I may publish with the voice of thanksgiving and tell of all thy wondrous works. It is in my heart this morning to tell of all his wondrous works. And I know it is an impossible task because there's so much to tell. But there are some wonderful things that the Lord has done and some wonderful works that we need to publish with the voice of thanksgiving. Father, help us this morning. Turn our eyes upon thee, give us ears to hear what the Spirit saith, and work mightily in our midst. Lord, hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up Jesus. And I pray your will be done in each of our hearts, for we pray in Jesus' strong name. And we thank you, Lord. That we have access to the throne of grace through the Lord Jesus who loved us and gave himself for us. Thank you for this privilege to pray in Jesus' name and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated In this verse, the psalmist David makes his determination known that he is going to make his thankfulness A matter of publication. He's going to publish his thankfulness. He's going to make it known how grateful he is to the Lord. Gratitude does not grow naturally in the soil of man's heart. Our old fallen nature is such that we take for granted much what God does, and rarely do we give Him thanks for all the things He does for us. When ten lepers were healed at the word of the Lord Jesus. Ten. And he told them to go. They cried out. They said, Have mercy on us. They cried out. Please heal us. They realized that they had a death sentence working in their body. And they turned to obey the Lord, and as they went to show themselves to the priest, which is what Jesus told them to do. It says their flesh came anew. Can you imagine? And I don't know what state these men were in, what condition their bodies were. But they have leprosy, and leprosy is commonly a disease that begins to eat away the extremities And little by little, maybe fingers were missing, maybe ears or noses, various parts of the body were missing, and as they turned and walked away. All of that came. Can you imagine? You imagine your fingers missing and you go to walk away and you realize, whoa, it came back. And no longer do I have those blotches and spots of leprosy eating away my flesh is new like that of a newborn baby. One Just one. Came back and kneeling gave thanks. And Jesus said, Were there not ten? Where are the nine? And I believe the statistic holds pretty good this morning. Usually it's about one out of ten that realizes how good the Lord's been. Well, this morning, with the help of the Lord, I want to turn our eyes on some things These wonderful works. And oftentimes when we think of the goodness of God, we often talk in tangible and sadly sometimes more material things, but I'm glad there are things God's done. That you can't put a price tag on, you can't put your hand on, but they're gifts nonetheless from the Lord. And so again the text says, that I may publish with the voice of thanksgiving and tell of all thy wondrous works. Let me give you a quick outline just by way of introduction. Notice the purpose of the psalmist He said that I may. He's purposing here. He's saying, I'm going to be thankful on purpose. How many of you know you're not accidentally thankful? Right. You had to teach your children to say what? You had to teach them say thank you Children, it wasn't in them, was it? Nor was it in you. And it's not in us normally or naturally. But here the psalmist David said, I'm going to give thanks on purpose. I'm going to purposefully be thankful. Um that's the choice we make. And it's a good one. I believe that's why in Psalm ninety-two the Psalmist said, It is good to give thanks unto the Lord. He realized that it's a good thing to be thankful. It's a good thing to recognize there are some things to give thanks for. Friend of mine bought a house, never looked at it, never looked at it, bought it off the internet And he said, preacher, I'm going to be moving. And he said, I want you to go look at it. And make sure the, if you don't care, turn the heat up and get it ready. Now this is this is December 23rd, he called me. He said, I'm going to be there December 24th. And so I went over to the house and I thought, man, it's cold in here. And as I walked through the house, I turned the the uh thermostat up, nothing, didn't hear anything, and I went and opened the basement door, and when I did looked right down. And the water was about two steps away from the floor main floor of the house. I got on my belly and I laid down to where I could shine a light and look across through there and I realized that somebody had left the sump pump unplugged. Well that's not a good thing to do when there's a creek that runs under your house. And that's what they had under that house. I called him, I said, Brother, do you know that there's a creek running under your house? And uh he said, No, the realtor didn't mention that I said, yeah, I reckon they didn't. So anyway, we I I got in a which isn't wise, I got in a metal trash can and I floated over to where and I didn't you know, that doesn't make that didn't make good sense after. It did at the time. But I got over there, got that thing plugged in, and and it started pumping. And so I sat there and we waited and he came in and man it was still cold in there and water still pumping out. And he's sitting there looking at this house and it was a mess. The furnace was flooded, the basement was flooded, all the wood down there was wet, uh, the oil tank had water in it. I mean, it was just a a disaster And we're sitting there, and his wife had uh turned on the stove and made uh uh him a cup of coffee and me a tea, and we're sitting there, and he's got his head in his hands, and then all of a sudden he looks up And he says, you know something? I'm thankful for that door. I said, what do you mean? He said, well, there's not much good in this house, but it does have a nice front door And you know, I I sat there and I thought, you know, that's being thankful on purpose. And he was serious about it. He said, that's a beautiful door. He said, that's the best front door I've ever had on a house. I said, well, at least we got a good door. Thankfulness. You know what David said? That I may. He said, I'm going to do this on purpose. I'm going to purposefully be thankful. But then notice what he said about publishing. He said that I I may Publish with the voice of thanksgiving. I'm going to publish, and that's a neat little word there. It literally means to make known or cause others to hear. He said, I want other people to know how thankful I am. I want to make it known. Well, aren't we quick to make so many things known? We often make things known we ought not to make known. We often make our grievances known, but how about our gratefulness? When's the last time we published our gratefulness? Wouldn't it be something if social media was flooded with thanksgiving to the Lord? I mean, you couldn't open a page or look at a person's statement without understanding, man, they're thankful to God for this and they're thankful to God for that. Listen, he said, I'm going to publish with a voice of thanksgiving. And then notice what he's going to promote here. Notice the promotion in this text. And he said, I'm going to tell. Of all thy wondrous works. He said, Lord, I'm going to make sure that when I publish with the voice of thanksgiving, I'm going to tell all the great things you've done. I'm going to tell all of your wondrous works. This morning I'm going to deviate from how I normally preach, and I'm just going to preach topically a message on things I'm thankful for. I want you to make a list. I want you to make this list. I want you to use this list because it's going to come straight out of the pages of God's Word. If you're sitting here confused or wondering or maybe a bit disillusioned and saying, I I really preacher, uh there's so much going on in my life, it's hard for me to say I'm thankful for much of anything Well, take these things and just ask yourself if they're not true in your life and be thankful to God for them. Because here's the truth. The things that we give thanks for that we're going to talk about this morning are eternal and unchanging. Because they're the wonderful works of God. They're the things He's wrought. Listen, aren't you glad the things God does, He does well? And the things God does, He does in a permanent way. The things that God does, He does in a very powerful way. When God does something, it's not for time. God does things eternal. So if you're making notes, and I and please, these are things we say, but please, let's ask the Lord to make them very real to us. But number one, one of the wonderful works, in fact, it is the premier work of God, that is the work of salvation. The work of salvation. Paul wrote in Ephesians chapter 2, verses 8 and 9, these words. For by grace are ye saved, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Are you grateful and thankful today for God's salvation? Are you saved today? Do you know Jesus to be your personal Savior? In fact, the most important thing that you'll ever settle on this side of eternity is do I know Jesus as my Savior? And once you get saved, what a world of difference is made by the work of grace done in the heart of a believing sinner. It changes everything. Could you just stop and think about for a moment where you would be had you not gotten saved? Would you stop and think what a difference would be in your life this morning had you not been born again? Stop and think about the different path you would be on if you weren't saved today. Think about the the direction you would be headed. You know, the Bible tells us that that broad way leads to destruction. Every person who's unsaved is on their way to hell. That's just the reality It's not something we gloat in or take joy in, but it is the reality. And listen, if you weren't saved today, you would be on that road. I don't doubt that some would already be in that place. Had you not got saved Had you not been saved, the choices you had made in life, the direction you would have chosen, would have led you to a swift and sure destruction. And so ought we not stop And thank God for a salvation. Notice he says, that is by grace. If you had to work for it, you'd never earn it. You could never get it. There's nothing you could do or I could do that could amount to anything much to make salvation achievable. But salvation is not by works, it's by grace. Aren't you glad that it's not uh uh based on economic achievement or it's not based on social standing and it's not based on heritage or parentage or or or or your background? Salvation is by grace plus nothing, minus nothing. You're not saved because of who you are. You're not saved because of what you are. You're saved if you've trusted in the finished work of Jesus Christ. He alone is salvation. Could we not publish with a voice of thanksgiving? You know, I think sometimes the danger is we get used to being saved. Many of you have been saved longer than you were lost. You've been saved longer than you were lost. You've been saved for a greater period of time. The Lord lets me live until January. I'll be on the earth 52 years. And let's see, forty-four of those years I've been saved. And that's to God be the glory. It's been his mercy. Listen, we're saved by grace. And it's not of worse. Notice this lest any man should boast. Nobody in this building, nobody on this planet can put their thumbs in their spiritual suspenders and crow like a rooster and say, look at what a good Christian I am We all have to bow our heads, look to God, and say to Him be the glory to save a sinner like me. Grateful to be saved. God could have passed you by, friend. Still been God, still been good. Still been gracious. Left you in your sin. He didn't do that. If you're sitting here saved by the grace of God, You must understand that it is a work and a gift and the goodness of God, and we ought to give him the glory and publish with the voice of Thanksgiving. In fact, all thanksgiving begins at the cross. All Thanksgiving begins at salvation. You know that man who came back to Jesus, the leper who was cleansed. He got more than a healing physically. When he bowed, the Lord said, Thy faith hath made thee whole. His body was already whole when he said that. What was he making whole? He was making his his eternity whole, his spiritual man whole. He was making him a new creature. This man not only got healed, but he got saved by the grace of God, which if you had to pick one of the two, the latter is better than the former. It's better to be saved and have a sick old body than it is to be lost and to be well But he gives God the glory. He was praising God for the gift of salvation. And when you think about the things that we're thankful for, please Don't take lightly the fact that God has saved you by his grace. Don't make it a little thing that God would wash your sin away It's gone. It's all gone. According to the Bible. Your sin is as far as the East is from the West. It's cast behind his back, never to be remembered against you anymore. Listen, as far as darkness, the old song says, is is removed from dawn So far has He removed our iniquities from us. Friend, your sins are gone. You say, preacher, where are they? They're underneath the blood of the cross of Calvary. Our sins are gone. Are you not grateful today for a salvation, by the way, that's not only free, but it's full? God doesn't do anything partial. You might be sitting here not knowing your Bible well enough and thinking that, well, I'm almost in. I'm halfway in. I'm just about it. Listen, there's no halfway, almost, partial. My friend, if you're saved, you're as saved right now as you're ever going to be. And you're as saved as if you were walking streets of gold and seeing the Lord Himself. That's not boasting in man. That's boasting in Christ. Jesus has made that possible. And I don't have to wring my hands and worry and fret and wonder and hope and say, I think so, maybe so. I'm glad because I have a Bible. I know I have eternal life. And I know it because that the work was done on Calvary. I'm not adding to it. I'm just simply resting in it. Thank God for a full and free salvation. But there's much more. Let me say quickly, number two, another thing we need to be thankful for is the security of that salvation. The security of that salvation. In John's Gospel, chapter number 10 and verse number 28, the Bible says, And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. The security of that salvation. Have you ever stopped and thought what a mess you would be in if this all rested on you? Well, I gotta I gotta stay in, you know. I I have friends that they it breaks my heart that they don't believe the Bible, but they think They have to get saved every time they mess up, every time they fail the Lord. And they and they they've gotten saved so many times that It really don't mean that much anymore. They just they just have to get in all the time. And they and you know what I've noticed? They never really know. They don't have peace. How could you have peace if you didn't know? How could you have how could you and you know what? They never really grow. Because you're always wandering right there around that first principle. Am I saved? Maybe not today. I guess I better get saved. What a tragedy. But our Lord in mercy spoke words that ought to resonate in every person's heart who's born again. First, Jesus said, I give. I give. You you're not you're not performing to get, he said I give. I give unto them what? Eternal life. Now look, the word eternal means forever. Look it up in the dictionary. It's not temporary, it's not just a down pavement, it's not partial, it's eternal. I give unto them eternal. That means it won't ever end. It don't have an ending. Yes, it had a beginning in the sense that you got born again, but from that point on, my friend, there is no end. Eternal life. And here's the promise, as if that was not clear enough. They shall never perish. They shall never perish. That means that that never will they be lost, never will they be destroyed, never will they be damned and doomed. Listen, that'll never happen. Why? Because Jesus gave them eternal life. And if you have eternal life, there's no future of damnation before you simply because of the promise of God to keep you from that very thing. They shall never perish, neither Now this destroys religious hierarchy. Any man. Pluck the mouth falls in. We were visited one time and this this very staunch Roman Catholic man said, Look, we know who you are. And I'll tell you, when folks that follow such heresy say they know who you are, that's a badge honor, in my opinion. But he said he made this statement. He said, I want you to know the priest has already put you on a list. I said, For real? My first thought was the hit list. I thought, well, at least I know. But he said, no, you're on a list. He said you will never be prayed for and never be pardoned. Talking about purgatory and all that stuff. I said, well sir, let me tell you something. You can't pluck me out of my father's hands. Christ has already given to me eternal life. And I'm as good as heaven as if I was already there because of the goodness of Jesus Christ. Man does not have the power to pluck you out of the Father's hand. There's no one who can take your salvation, and by the way, you don't even have the power to lose it because God in heaven is the one who gave it. Thank the Lord that He gives us eternal life. You're secure. Now remember this, please, the devil's a liar. And he wants you to fret and worry over what is established once and for all. He wants you to be plagued with troubles, and and he wants your heart to be full of fear. But know this truth. Truth will set you free. And the truth is that once you have been given eternal life, you'll never perish. You'll never perish. Call it what you will. We believe in a God who keeps his own. The Bible says we're kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed at the last time. You're kept by God's power That's why we are humbled people. That's why we're a people that realize we don't it's not our doing. If you've lived for God a decade or two or three or four, it's the goodness of God. It's God that's kept you. It's God's power that has kept you. And it's God's power that will keep you. You say, preacher, but what happens when I get old? You get But what happens if if I if I forget him? What if my mind I began to lose my mind and it deteriorates to the point that I don't know who Jesus is and I don't know what's going on and I don't know who uh who who he is or I can't even remember what he's done. Have I got some good news for you? You may forget him, but he won't forget you. My friend, he's written you in the palms of his hand. Your name's recorded in the Lamb's Book of Life. There's no way, shape, form, or fashion of you being forgotten by the Lord. You may forget everything, but he won't forget you. Paul said Timothy, The Lord knoweth them that are his. He knows. He knows. They may not know, but thank God in his mercy he knows. He knows. I'm talking about a security. Are we not grateful this morning? Can we not publish with a voice of thanksgiving for the security that we have in Jesus Christ? Someone said, well, preacher, if I believed that, I'd live any old way I want to. And I say, you just don't understand it. Because I believe that, I want to just please him and live close to him. Because he's done something so wonderful that I don't deserve. And he's been so good to me that I owe him everything. That's why the hymn writer said Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. I can't live. Listen, if he died for me, I can't live for myself. The Bible tells me if he died for all, then they that are alive in Christ should live for him. I'm obligated, not under a duty, but out of devotion. I'm obligated from a heart of love to live for the Lord. In fact, it's treason not to live for the Lord. If if you accept the love of God in Christ Jesus, it's treason against a holy God to live a selfish life. Because you're not your own. You've been bought with the price. You've been washed in the blood. You've been redeemed by the grace of God. And you owe him everything. You owe him everything. The security of the believer Let me go on, please. I've got about 10 or 11 points, and I know it's a quarter of, so don't panic. But I want you to see number three, the sanctification of the Christian. Philippians, Paul wrote to them in chapter 1, verse 6, and he said this about them, being confident of this very thing. That he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. He that hath begun. He said, I'm confident of this. I'm confident that what God started, he will finish. Confident of that. That's a work of saint. You say, preacher, what in the world does that mean? It means he's cleaning you up and fixing you for heaven. He's making you like Jesus. Sanctification is the inward work of the Spirit of God and the Word of God, making you the child of God, like Jesus the Son of God. That's what sanctification is. He's taken the sandpaper of truth and the hammer and chisel of the Holy Ghost, and he's taken everything out that don't look like Jesus. By the way, that's a lifelong work. You know, I was thinking as we were singing uh I'm so glad that Jesus loves me. Jesus loves me. Jesus loves me. I'm so glad that Jesus loves me. Jesus loves even me. I I sat there and thought, you know we ought to just pause and stand and sing, Jesus loves me, this I know. But you know sometimes, oh that's a little children's song. There's a whole lot of truth that we have relegated to the Sunday school that ought to be everywhere else. That little song he's still working on me, that'd be a right good hymn to sing. Because he is still working on me. And if you're saved, I know this to be true. If you're saved this morning, he's working on you. Preacher, I don't sense it. Well y you don't always sense what the Lord's doing, but he's doing something. We're about to enter the winter and Things though they look dead, they're not dead. The trees don't have leaves and the grass is not green, but you wait till spring and she'll look she'll look a whole lot different. But she's still alive. The trees are alive. The grass is alive. It's dormant in a sense. But that doesn't mean nothing's going on. There's work underground. And oftentimes in our spiritual life, there's not a lot of things to see. There's not pretty green leaves or fruit or flowers Or things like that, but God's doing something deep down inside, and He's growing roots that'll hold you in the depths of your storm. Those roots of faith grow in the dark nights of the soul. I was thinking this morning early. I was meditating on Paul's life and ministry, and I thought about Paul's nights. You know how many times God came to him in the night? It's interesting to study that, that God would come in a night. Now, what happens at night? Well, that nighttime is usually the quiet and solitude, but it's also a time of suffering and struggle. It's a time of difficulty, and it was those times God came in his life. There stood by me, Paul said, this night, the Lord who strengthened me. And in the night the Lord appeared to him when he first got arrested in Jerusalem, and the Lord said, Be of good cheer, Paul. The Lord cheered him up in his night. You know what was happening? Not a lot going on. Paul's ministry was pretty much over publicly as we would know it. He wasn't preaching in a sense He was testifying now to individuals. He was secluded from the saints. And now a whole different chapter was about to open in his life. But he was still the Lord was still faithful. The Lord was right there. And the Lord was working in the life of the Apostle Paul, just like he is in everybody who's saved, my friend. Listen, being confident of this very thing, he that hath begun a good work. We 'll perform it. He's still working on you. And I know he's got this goal in mind. He's gonna make you like Jesus. And if I can be as bold as say it, whether you like it or not. My mother, I was thinking this morning she'd she'd make us get ready for church when we were little and she'd help dress us. She always made us, you know, dress up for church, and I'm thankful for that. I'm thankful because I realized when we went to church, even though I didn't understand it all, we were going somewhere different than the playground. We were going somewhere different than the flea market. We were going somewhere important, obviously, because man, she sure put a lot of work into it. And she would make me wear these little ties. For a long time she made me wear bow ties. And they were them little um clip kind, they have the little spring thing on them. And being the portly little fella I was When she would put that thing in there and snap it, it'd pinch my fat, you know. That's why I don't wear them now. I got a whole lot more to grab. But she would she and it would hurt, and then I'd fuss. I'd say, Why are you doing that I'm getting you ready. I want you to look good. We're going to church. We don't go to church just looking any old way. We're going because we want to please the Lord. And she had talked to me about those things and I didn't understand what she was doing. Then she made my hair lay down. And you know, some of you mothers remember doing this. We get in the church and and my hair might be standing up because I had my head under the seat going you know in the truck playing and all of that and she'd lick her hands and Boy, I hated that, Andy. I thought, well, can't you find water somewhere else? I mean, why you gotta lick your hands and make my hair lay down? You know, she rub you have how many of your mamas are guilty as charged? Huh? You you know what I'm talking about. And and listen, that that's just the way it was. But she was trying to trying to make you what you ought to be. Now my Lord is doing a far deeper and greater work. And I don't get it all, and I don't understand it all. Sometimes it hurts Sometimes I have to say, now Lord, I don't understand the pressure, I don't understand the disappointment, I don't understand the pain. Lord, why do you do it? And the Lord just says, just be still. I'm trying to make you like Jesus. He said, I'm confident. I'm very confident. I'm convinced beyond a shadow of a doubt that what God started, He's gonna finish. And He's gonna do it, friend. Now I found out a long time ago it's a whole lot easier to give in and to go forward than it is to bow up and have a battle. Guess what? He always wins. He always wins. I'm talking about the sanctification. God is working in your life. Say, preacher, what what's going on in my life right now? If you're saved, I know this is true. God is making you more like Jesus. It might be an attitude he's dealing with. It might be some old habit he's working on. It might be some spirit that you've developed in your heart. It may be a thousand things, but I know this. I'm confident of this. I'm confident of this. That he that hath begun a good work in you We'll perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. He's going to keep on working on you, keep on putting the pressure, keep on dealing with your heart, keep on convicting you, keep on working in your life until the product is complete. And one day John said it like this, when we see him, we shall be like him. Be done. Works finished. Job completed. Thank God for the work of sanctification. Can I give you a few more? Notice Psalm 23 and 1. I love this verse. Psalm 23 and 1 says, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. What are we publishing with the voice of thanksgiving? Our satisfaction with the shepherd. I'm satisfied. Dr. Hitchens talked about it this morning. There is a hunger and thirst that nothing but God can feel. Nothing but God can feel. You can make all the money you want to make until you have to roll it in wheelbarrows back and forth and hide it somewhere. But it'll never satisfy you. You can have all the thrills that life has to offer from one thing to the other, but yet you'll still be unsatisfied There is a part of you that only God in heaven himself can satisfy, and only when you can say, The Lord is my shepherd, then are you able to say, I shall not want. He'll satisfy you. Now some of you don't believe that. You say, preacher, I I I don't know about that. I uh there's some things I believe will satisfy me. Well go get them. Go get them. They'll come with damage, they'll come with a lot of hurt, they'll come with a lot of heartache, but I'm here to tell you there's only one thing that'll satisfy you, it's the Lord. Only one thing There's some people sitting here that could testify. Look, I chased this my life, I chased that, and none of it ever satisfied, nothing satisfied until I met the Lord. Listen, my friend, there is nothing or no one that can satisfy you like Jesus. That psalm is they call it the shepherd's psalm, but it's really the sheep's psalm. Because the sheep's talking. The sheep's bragging on the shepherd. The sheep saying, I'm took real good care of. Philip Keller wrote a book and I I love that book uh about the shepherd and the sheep and uh he he wrote about uh his own experience as a as a shepherd and he he said down the road was a man who raised sheep and he didn't really care for them. He just sort of got him in for uh something to do to take care of his pastures and he said they were scrawny and they were sick and they were always getting out of their fence. And he said, I envisioned them one day looking across the way at my sheep He said I took raising sheep seriously. He said I fed them well. They were well-fed. He said they were flourishing. And he said they were healthy because I took care of them and gave them medicine when they needed it, and I tended to them. He said, I often envision those six grony sheep looking across the way and saying, oh, how I'd like to belong to him. And then he said it dawned on me one day, that's just what the people of God should be. We are sheep of his pasture. And he takes real good care of us. In fact, we're not sickly or scrawny. If we are, it's by our own choosing. Our God is a God who satisfies to the full. If you're hungry, He'll fill you. If you're thirsty, He'll satisfy you. He, my friend, will come and meet the longings of your heart. Are you not grateful for a satisfaction with the shepherd this morning? So much of our world is near mad. They're just plain near mad. Running mad after this and that and hoping that something will just sort of fill them up. Something will sort of make a difference. I feel bad for folks uh run into these parties and beer joints and places on Fridays and Saturday night hoping that something will satisfy them, something will make a difference. But I've got news for you. All that's going to do is give you a headache and a hangover and make you sick and do dumb things. But I'm glad that, my friend, you can find Jesus and have a good time and live your life and not have a hangover to boot. Thank God for Jesus, the satisfying work of Jesus Christ. Are you satisfied? Let me say this God's little people need to publish that. We're quick to publish what we don't like. And I think we portray to a world a savior that doesn't satisfy. But I'm here to tell you he's satisfied. And if you're not satisfied, it's sort of like leaving a good cook's table. If you leave hungry, it's your own fault. I can hear my little old grandmother standing there in that big pot. She was a healthy lady. And Maul Warren would stand, she'd say, now if you leave this house hungry, it ain't my fault. And that's the truth. You left her house hungry, you were sick, or you just didn't eat what she made. And I'll tell you there's a God in heaven who feeds his little children. It may be that you're just not scrooching up to the table. You might be hungry and thirsty because you're just drinking out of the mud holes of the world. You need to get back to the water of life. I'm talking about being thankful, thankful for a satisfying shepherd. Let me quickly say these. Aren't you thankful for the scriptures? 2 Peter 1 4 says, Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises, that by these you might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. How thankful I am I've got a Bible. This Bible has been a staff that I've leaned on on many a weak occasion. This Bible has fed my soul when it was hungry. It's watered my spirit when it was thirsty. It's been a compass to say, this is the way, walk ye in it. It's been a sword to face the enemy. It's been a shield to put to take away or put back the fiery darts of the wicked one. It's been a pillar. I put my head on many a night I didn't have much else to look to, but I had the book. And I've laid my head down on the pillow of truth and said, God, your word's true, the devil's a liar, I can't trust my feelings, but I know it's true. And rested on the pillow of truth. I'll tell you, it's been a help when my heart's been weak. It's been an encouragement when I've been discouraged. It's given me strength. Listen, this book, thank God for the Bible. The Bible has been the chastening hand of God when I've gone astray. It's afflicted me faithfully and said this is wrong. It needs to be made right. Thank God for the scriptures. Publish Publish with the voice of thanksgiving. God thank you for my Bible. I'm glad I've got a Bible man didn't write, but God gave. I'm glad I've got a Bible that God's watched over from the beginning to now and will for all of eternity, for it's forever settled in heaven. I'm glad I've got a Bible that I can trust Uh without hesitation or reservation, if God said it, that settles it. End of story. People say, well, I some old preachers used to say God said it And I believe it and that settles it. Well it don't matter if you believe it or not. It's settled already. Your feeble little attribution of praise or or or your vote in favor don't change what's true. It's true whether you believe it, if you reject it, if you deny it, God, listen, God is faithful. He'll not deny himself What he said will stand forever. And when this old world's wrapped up in just the ash heap and the heavens are folded up like a curtain, When all of time is ended and eternity begins in that sense, I've got news for you. The Bible will still stand, the Bible will be true. The scriptures, my friend, listen, I think in heaven we're not going to throw the Bible away in heaven. I know we'll be in the presence of the living word, but I still think there's going to be a place for the written word. There's still going to be a purpose and listen we'll have that Bible and thank God for the Bible the scriptures When's the last time you published with the voice of Thanksgiving? God, I want to thank you for my Bible. Now, on Sunday morning, if you're scrambling around looking for it because you didn't open it Monday through Saturday, you probably aren't very grateful. If you have to blow the dust of the week off of it so that, you know, you don't look like a proper heathen and you just bring a clean Bible, then you're probably not very grateful. But if you get up in the morning, the first thing you do is say, Lord, where's my Bible? God, I need something from you It's a new day, and this is a new moment, and I need help. And so, Lord, please speak to me and talk to me. Now, if that's the case, you you are thankful this morning. You know the importance of your Bible What about the Spirit of God? John 14, 16, I will pray the Father, he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever. Thank God for the Holy Spirit. See, the Spirit of God lives inside of you according to the Word of God if you're saved. And He's there. He's there to guide you, He's there to convict you, He's there to show you truth. He's there to empower you, to be a witness. He's there to enable you to live holy. My friend, you can't live without the Spirit. You need the Spirit of God. What about the sovereignty of God? Have you ever thought, thank God, that He's a sovereign God? Psalm 115, 3 says, But our God is in the heavens, he had done whatsoever he hath pleased. Listen to me. God is not your genie. He's not at your beck and call. You don't order him. He's the Lord. He's in charge. He's as much God as he's ever been God. I'm going to tell you something. When the Antichrist comes on this earth, God will still be God. And he'll show at the end of the age, he will show that he truly is the blessed and only potentate, as Paul describes him to Timothy. He will show that he is the Lord God of all. And listen, you and I need to remember that our God is a sovereign God. He rules and reigns in heaven above. And don't let that make you nervous. Let it make your heart rejoice. I'm glad he's not so fickle that man can change him. He is the Lord and He's faithful. The Old Testament writer said because he changes not. Right. We're not consumed. Because he's merciful. What about the strength of God? Psalm twenty-nine eleven, the Lord will give strength unto his people, the Lord will bless his people with peace. What about the supplies of God? Philippians 4. 19, but my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus What about the shed blood of the Lord Jesus? You've been bought with a price, not with the corruptible seed, not with vain tradition, but by the incorruptible seed. Listen, thank God for the shed blood of the Lord Jesus. Could we not? This isn't comprehensive. I want you to add to your list. And I want you to use your Bible to do it. I want you to open your Bibles this week and say, now Lord, show me some things I can make on that list. I can add to that list that I'm thankful for, that tell of your wonderful works. That tell this is the Lord's doing, and it's marvelous in our eyes. Sometimes we get so caught up in what the devil's doing, what man's doing, what we're doing, or what we're not doing That we forget what God has already done. And listen, if you're going to be grateful, truly grateful, and publish with the voice of thanksgiving, let's get back our attention on the things, the wonderful works of the Lord. God 's done some wonderful things. And I've got news for you today. You may be sitting here unsaved, but God can save you today. Today can be the day of salvation and today can be the beginning of your thanksgiving. You can leave here with a real grateful heart because you're not going to hell and Christ has redeemed you from your sin. Listen, my friend, call on him. Marinatha won't say you never could, never will. Whoever stands in this pulpit won't say you never could, never will. You can get in that water baptism until you're wrinkled up like a raisin and it will never save you. My friend, you can get on your knees and pray prayers until you blew in the face and prayed everything you can pray, and prayer won't save you. But if you'll trust in the finished work of Jesus Christ, he'll save you instantaneously, make you a new creature, take that old man, make you a new man, wash your sin away. Why? Because Christ died for your sin According to the scripture. And he was buried, and he rose again the third day according to the scripture. And my friend, he saves whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord. Cry out to him. He'll save you today, friend. And dear saved friend, dear brother and sister in Jesus Christ. What a joy it is to be on our way to heaven. And to have some things that we can say, God, I just want to say thank you. You know, we ask a lot of stuff in this altar, and I'm glad we can. Oh, how glad I am. There's people sitting here who've been prayed for, and people pray And how glad I am, boy, in those crises of life, there's somebody getting a hold of God saying, Lord, come to their aid. I think every once in a while we ought to just use this altar, not to get, but to give. Lord, thank you. Just thank you. I want to thank you for saving me. I want to thank you for my security. I want to thank you for sanctification. I want to thank you that you satisfy me. I th Thank you that you're my shepherd The scriptures go on and on. Lord, I just want to say thank you. I'm not asking nothing. I just want to say thank you. Might be a good morning to do it. Might be a good morning to do it. Let's stand together, please. Father, you know the need of every heart. If there is a lost soul in this building or has listened to this broadcast today, or will in the coming week. Lord, I pray in mercy you'll help them to see once more Jesus is the only way. Please save them. Lord, I pray for the believer that might be cold and indifferent. May their heart be warm with your goodness. And may they like that prodigal just leave that place of rebellion and disobedience and say, Lord, here am I. Lord, I pray for you, dear children. You'd help us this morning. Oh, just to give you thanks. May there be some things in our heart really burning and saying, Lord, I want to thank you for them. Stir us now, please, and we'll thank you for what you do. Let's all stand our heads