There's a verse I woke up with this morning, Psalm 73, 26. The Bible says, My flesh and my heart faileth. But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. I don't know about you, but I've been helped by the singing this morning. Choir you knocked it out of the park. And I loved that song, That Wonderful Country. What an encouragement that was. And then the Lord helped Brother Doug help us. And I sure appreciate that. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to Luke chapter 19. And I want to read ten verses in your hearing. Luke chapter number 19 and the first ten verses. You find your place. Would you stand with me, please? Luke chapter number nineteen and verse number one says this And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. And behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich. And he sought to see Jesus, who he was, and could not for the press, because he was little of stature. And he ran before and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass that way. And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and saw him and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste and come down. For today I must abide at thy house. And he made haste and came down and received him joyfully. And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying that he was gone to be guests with the man that is a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I've taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house, forasmuch as he also is a son of Abraham. For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. But Lord helping me this morning, I want to preach on the thought, the main thing. Or if I could just simplify it by saying, what really matters? What really matters? Let's pray. Father, again we bow our heads and acknowledge our need. Lord We've come to this important , time of opening your word. And Lord, neither the preacher nor the hearer can do this alone. We need help. So Lord help us. We'll give you the glory and praise you and thank you for all that you do. We're looking to you and waiting upon you now. In Jesus' mighty name, and God's people said , You can be seated. Thank you for standing and honoring the Word of God in that way. I want you to think about the life and ministry of the Lord Jesus. I don't know if you've ever tried just to read one of the Gospels all the way through in one sitting. But if you do or have ever done that, you'll find out that Jesus' life was a pretty busy life. There was always someone who was requesting healing, sometimes in rather dramatic ways. I mean, can you imagine be speaking to a group of people and All of a sudden stuff starts falling out of the ceiling, and the next thing you know, they're letting someone down right in front of you because they're so desperate to have him healed. There were people that would follow the Lord Jesus and cry out for healing. In fact, Jesus is traveling through Jericho. And on that Jericho Road, just mere perhaps hours previous, two blind men were sitting by the wayside, and they cried out. Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on us and heal us. And the Bible tells us that those two blind men were healed as Jesus was making his way to Jericho. There was always someone clamoring for attention from the Lord Jesus. The poor were continually coming to him. He fed the multitudes when they were hungry. Uh there were others that were bringing their troubles and bringing their cares and bringing their burdens. Remember the dear lady with the issue of blood. She didn't want to bother him, she just wanted to touch the hem of his garment And she touched the hem of his garment and found healing. And all of these things were going on around him. In fact, there were times that it the Bible tells us they did not have so much time to sit down and eat. That's how busy the life and ministry of the Lord Jesus was. But in the middle of all of that He never lost sight of what really mattered. In fact, I find that he continually was stating over and over again what the real reason for his coming to this earth was. He stressed it again and again, the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. I believe this verse sums up the reason Jesus came. This verse sums up what this is all about. This verse tells me the life and ministry of the Lord Jesus in a nutshell. He came to seek and to save that which was lost. That's what matters. I want you to think about this with me. You and I live in a world where we're so easily distracted. You and I are surrounded by all things that I mean, look, the world affairs could get your attention the politics that are going on and and uh I don't know about you but in some ways I hope this next year goes by quick because it's going to be a circus uh unbelievable But the reality is all of that can distract you. Next thing you know, you've got your eyes on this and that. The economy can distract you. Family issues can distract you. Your own personal issues can distract you All of these things are clamoring for our attention. But I want to challenge you this morning from the Word of God, by the life of the Lord Jesus. To keep the main thing the main thing. To remember what really matters. You know, you and I can get so caught up in our persuasion of things that we will forget what matters. I'm a Baptist by conviction, but I'd rather you be born again than to become a Baptist. I'm more interested in you going to heaven than you are wearing the stripe or name or whatever it is that we identify with. I'm just saying there are some things, and by the way, how many of you have understood that as life goes on, there are precious things that really matter, precious few things, very few things that are really important. I want you to look with me at three simple truths this morning. Number one, I want you to see a man saved. I also want you to see a murmuring crowd. By the way, when men get saved, there's always a murmuring crowd. When the Lord does something, the devil does too. Always, always. And then I want you to see the mission stated The mission stated. Look at this man who was saved. Now, probably almost everybody, maybe everybody in here uh knows something about this man. You know what you know? Zacchaeus was a wee little man And uh Well, that's what I thought. He climbed up in the sycamore tree for the Lord he wanted to see We've all sung that little song, haven't we? Sunday school, wherever, Bible school. That's a a little thing that sticks in our mind But I want you to know something when in my mind as a child I thought about him and I thought about him almost as a comic book character. He's just this wee little fella, pops out of the crowd, climbs up a tree, is a spectacle to everybody. But if you stop and think about it, the Bible tells us a whole lot more. Number one, I want you to see this man's status. You see what the Bible says? He was chief among the publicans, and he was rich. He was a man. Now you know the publicans were the Jewish tax collectors working for the Roman government. And they were hated by the Jews. In fact, many of the rabbis would preach that it's impossible for a publican and a shepherd to repent. They're so wicked. And they would say things about them. In fact, they would identify publicans along with murderers and thieves. And they would put them all together. Not much has changed, has it? Tax collectors are still not high on the social pecking order among any culture. These folks were considered turncoats. These individuals betrayed their own countrymen to work for the invaders. Yet the Bible says he was rich. Did you know that Jericho was one of the most wealthy cities of that day and the Roman Empire made sure they got their dollar, if you will, out of these people. And Zacchaeus was the man who ruled over all the tax collectors. He had a high position in a very prominent place. Now, if you think about it, when you think about Zacchaeus, you see the wee little man up in a tree. And by the way, that wasn't an uncommon thing. I don't know if you've seen pictures from other countries when great mobs of people gather. Man, they'll fill trees and building tops and vehicles stand on top of them. just to see what it is uh that they're wanting to see. No different in this day. But Zacchaeus was small or short, and because of that he climbed the tree to see the Lord. But his status, he here's a wealthy man a powerful man and a man that had great position among those people, but I want you to see something about him. The Bible says in verse 3, and he sought to see Jesus who he was. He's looking for something. Look, do you realize he had all that money could buy for that day? He had everything that money could afford. He was a very rich man, and I I don't think the Bible identifies the fact that he was rich just to uh bemoan wealth, but I believe the Bible identifies it so that you understand that riches do not satisfy the longing of a human's heart. This man was searching. He was rich. He was powerful. But something was missing. He sought to see Jesus. Now, have you ever thought about this? This is about three years. We're getting close to the cross. We're getting close to the death of the Lord Jesus at this point. And three years prior, someone that I believe Zacchaeus would have known held a feast in his house and invited all of his friends and said, I want to introduce you to someone that's changed my life. Do you remember Matthew or as the Bible calls him Levi? He was a tax collector. And I believe at that feast, Zacchaeus was present with Matthew and the other people that would he had been associated with. Being that he was the ruler over that crowd of Jericho, I'm sure he knew who Matthew was, and Matthew knew him, and he would have heard and followed with interest, the life and ministry of the Lord Jesus. Maybe he heard something at that feast that he could not get away from. I want you to remember something When you plant the gospel seed, it's not over just because you don't see any fruit. When you point someone to the Lord Jesus, it's not done just because they don't make an instantaneous decision. There's a lot of times that it lays dormant in the heart, and it may be three years, it may be thirty years, it may be fifty years, but I'll tell you something, in God's good time In God's good time, he can make that seed come to life. And here's old Zacchaeus, and boy, something's still stirring in him. He heard something previous. He's watched the life and ministry of the Lord Jesus, and now he's saying, I've got to see him for who he is. And then notice his salvation. The Bible says that in verse number six he made haste and came down and received him joyfully. Would you note those three words, received him joyfully? The only way to get saved is to receive Him joyfully. The only way for you to go to heaven, you don't have to join the church or be baptized or anything like that. But what you do have to do is receive the Lord Jesus Christ. Because as many as receive him, to them gives he the power to become the sons of God. Now, friend, he received him joyfully. You say, oh preacher, he just welcomed him into his home. Well, if you'll read your Bible, you'll find out more was going on than Jesus visiting his home. Because Jesus has changed his heart. The Bible says that Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, notice he said to the Lord, not the people, but the Lord. Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I've taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. Do you know what that is? That's testimony that what had happened on the inside was making its way to the outside. Now, folks, you can't hide real salvation no more than you can hide a good case of the measles. Now we may not get those anymore. Some of you remember when you would get the mumps? I had those as a kid. I guess we get shots for that sort of thing now. But buddy, when you got the mumps, everybody knew it. You look like a chipmunk packing up for the winner. Buddy, you swelled up both sides And uh, hey, it was just, you knew it, you couldn't hide it. As much as you tried, you cannot hide it. And if you get saved by God's grace, it cannot be hidden. There's two things about salvation. You can't fake it long and you can't hide it long. You may try to pretend you've got it and put on But it won't last no more than anything, but you can't hide it if you want to, because he's going to change your life He changed Zacchaeus. Zacchaeus said, Lord, I'm going to make things right. Now, you say, preacher, did he have to do that to be saved? Absolutely not. He received him joyfully. But he did that because he was saved. He did that because he was saved. He was a changed man, and a changed man lives in a different way. I bet there were folks standing around doing their calculation. Because Zacchaeus had probably robbed a lot of them folks, Jericho. You know it was common for the publicans of that day to knock on your door and the tax bill be ten dollars. And he would say, you owe twenty. No, no, the bill is ten. Oh no, you owe twenty. And he would pocket ten and pay the other ten to the wrong. That's why he was rich. He was a rich man at that point because he was a crook. Now, not every rich man's a crook, but here was one that was. He was a crook. And he was a rich man because of his thievery. But when he got saved, The very thing he had been most noted for, he said, I'm going to make rot. I'm going to set it in order. Folks, you remember when salvation often meant restitution? When people got right with God and then they made things right in their lives, that's still right to do That's still, listen, they say in 1904, many of the mines and wells were going bankrupt because of stealing from the company. Many of these company mines, and I mean whatever the conditions were, they were difficult conditions, but they would steal coal and they would steal the workers now. would steal all sorts of things from the company. And many of these companies were on the verge of bankruptcy during those days. In the the very end of the year of 1904, every mining company turned a profit. because the miners stopped their stealing and started working because they had Jesus living in their hearts and it made new people out of them. We talk about what's wrong with this country and with our culture, and I'm here to tell you I wouldn't want to be a business owner in the day we're living in I wouldn't want to have to oversee a group of people that had to work for profit because the the very thought of work has nearly escaped a whole two generations of people now. But I'm here to tell you what is wrong with our country is not going back and teaching more trades or instilling different thoughts or ideas or paths. It's get people to Jesus Christ that He'll make new people out of them. There'll be better workers. They'll be better mothers and fathers There'll be better people in our society, not made better by reformation, but made better by regeneration when they trust the Lord Jesus. Men need Christ. This man needed the Lord, and God saved him. But look at verse 7. There's always a murmuring crowd. And by the way, this is the religious crowd. The Bible says in verse 7, and when they saw it, they all murmured, saying that he was gone to begest with a man that's a sinner. Notice that murmuring crowd, what they saw. By the way, do you know you see exactly what you're looking for? You know what they were looking for? We gotta find something wrong with him. We've got to find something wrong with him. He's upsetting the religious apple card around here, and we've got to find something wrong. And friend, listen, you will always see what you're looking for. It always amazed me people come to church looking for something to condemn it for. We come looking. I I've told people a long time ago, I just keep a list anymore. If you want my faults, I've got them wrote out, and I know some you don't know about I can give you a bigger list than you got. And you you you too, you all of us, my friend, i if what you're looking for is something wrong, you're going to find it. It's going to be too hot. Now it's Always too hot in my opinion, but it may be too cold. It's never too cold in my opinion. It's going to be it's going to be too crowded. It's going to be too empty. It's going to be too Listen, if you're looking for something wrong, you're going to find it That's what they were doing. They were looking for something wrong, and they said, look at him. He's going to eat with a sinner. Notice what they said. They said he was gone to beg with the man that's a sinner. Now that d do you almost hear the the the the silliness of that? Jesus having something to do with a sinner? That's a bad thing? That's not a bad thing. That's a good thing. That's a good thing. I don't know about you, but I'm glad he was the friend of this sinner and that he had something to do with me. The reality is, my friend, if he didn't mess with sinners, you and I would have no hope But he was gone to beg with a sinner. He went to E and they said, Oh, what a tragedy. Now here's something sad about this murmuring crowd. They missed the whole purpose of his coming. Just stop and think logically. Here's a tax collector who gets saved. I don't know about you, but I'd rather work with a saved IRS agent than a lost IRS agent. Anybody with Pastor on that? I mean, if you gotta deal with that outfit, you might as well deal with a brother or sister in the Lord Jesus Christ. Many of you cross borders. I was thinking for some reason the other evening about our crossing the border and and you know internet had just started out a little bit and I didn't really do a lot of research We just packed our things and got in the moving truck and drove to the border and said, We're here. And the border agent said, Well, do you have the form such and such declaration of goods? I said, No, I don't He said, do you have a letter of invitation? Do you have a and all these saints? I said, well, no, not really. I said, but there's a little congregation about six and a half hours across the border. And they've asked me to come up here and be their pastor and be the missionary pastor and my home church said they'll help us and they said, How much? I said, Well, I really don't know. I hadn't got my first uh support so we really don't know and boy that that you could tell that border agent she was getting very very irritated She said, park over there, please. And meet me inside. And I'll never forget going inside. I, you know, it was my first experience crossing a border in that way and I didn't know what she was going to say. And I remember her sitting down chewing me out. You should be better prepared. Now you're going to have to unload that truck, identify everything on it. And I'm thinking Man, it took us two days to load that thing. How are we going to do this out out here in the out of doors? And she's just reading me the Ryde Act. And then comes shift change. We sat there a long time. We're filling out papers, doing all this stuff we're supposed to do. Um frustration gives me a legal pad and says, go out there and just write down, you know, everything you've got and the legal value of it or what you think the value of it is, so on. And we're trying to do all that and a man comes on shift. And he calls me back in, he said, you're Mr. Grooms, yes, and I tell him what we're going to do and all of that. And he said, Now what kind of church are you going to pr uh preach at? I said, a Baptist church. No, he said, what kind of Baptist church? I said, Independent Baptist Church. He said, one of those that preaches the gospel? I said, yes, a gospel preaching church. Oh, he said, we need more of that. We need more of that. He he said, uh now what what's your intentions? And I said, Well, I want to see this church come alive and and uh see it start other churches and And he said, that's wonderful. He said, I'm for that. And he's writing something all along. And and and look, he wasn't on shift 15 minutes, and I had everything I needed. He sent me out the door with his prayers and his blessing. It makes a difference when you deal with a saved person. I don't care what it is. These individuals don't understand that the saved Zacchaeus is going to be a whole lot better than the lost Zacchaeus He's not going to be the same man when he knocks on your door to take up taxes. But you know what? They were so blinded that they could not see what mattered. You know who that multitude was? Predominantly? Religious people. Scribes and Pharisees. They believed the law, they upheld the law, they wanted the law of God observed. It's interesting that that Zacchaeus even followed the law in Restoration Fourfold. He went to the hilt of the law, the top of the law, and said, I'll restore fourfold. But by the way, see, their religion said these publicans could not be Jews. That's why Jesus said he's also a son of Abraham, but more importantly, the kingdom is in his heart. He is a Jew, but now he's a real one. He's a converted, the circumcision not of the flesh, but of the heart. But see, they missed all of that. But I want you to see verse 10, the mission stated. For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. Would you look at the Son? Notice the Bible says here the Son of Man, he doesn't call himself the Son of God, although he is the Son of God. He calls himself the Son of Man. Why did he do that? Because that's what most closely identifies him with you and me. He's the son of man. He's one of us. Do you know that? He's one of us. He is flesh and blood. The Bible tells us very clearly that he took upon himself the form of a servant. He took upon himself that human body, and he became just like you and me. Don't think for a minute that you're God's untouchable, unreachable, inaccessible. My friend, I've got news for you. He became just like you. We have a high priest who's touched with the feelings of our infirmities He knows what it's like to have a broken heart. He knows what it's like to suffer hunger. He knows what it's like to get weary and tired. He knows what it's like to follow the course of human nature. As far as human life is concerned. And my friend, listen, he is someone that can relate to you. Only God I know of. That became us to make us like him. He made a way. He made a way. By the way, doesn't that speak to you? You know a lot of times we gotta be careful as Christians that we're not here and others are there. We gotta be careful. I remember an old preacher giving me advice years ago. He said, listen, if you're going to reach them, you've got to sweat with them. So he said. So I picked up my chainsaw and I went to the woods that winter with those men, and uh I ate what they ate, worked like they worked. I didn't drink the coffee they drank, because sometimes it had things in it that preacher shouldn't be drinking. That's what put me on tea, Richard. So I made my own safer that way. And you know what I found out? Hearts start opening up. You're not just a preacher telling everybody what to do. Man, what what an open aren't you glad for a greater than that, our Savior? Who coming and the Bible says he he became sin, who knew no sin. Now he didn't have any sin, he was the sinless Son of God. But yet he became our sin. He took our sin and he went to an old rugged cross and he literally paid my debt in full so he could set me free. Oh my friend, what a son of man the Lord Jesus is. But I want you to notice he not only is the Son of Man, but he's seeking. See the text? He has come to seek He's on the lookout. He's searching. Church, he's looking this morning. I believe he's searching this morning. Matthew chapter number 18, we read about the Lord Jesus giving a parable. And he says that a shepherd had sheep, and 99 were safe in the fold. One was out in the wilderness. He left the 99 and he went and found the one. He went looking for the sheep. He said you'd do the same thing. If you had ninety-nine that were safe in the fold, you'd leave those ninety-nine and go find that one. You know why? Because that one matters. That one's important. You might be that one. Look, all of us are that one in some way. All of us were that one that he came looking for And you may be saved this morning, but you need to remember you didn't go find him. He came and found you. Now Zacchaeus wanted to see the Lord, but it was the Lord that stopped and looked up and said, Zacchaeus, get down here. You know why? Because he knew, do you know in eternity past he knew this had happened? He he understood. Look, when he got there, he didn't just say, oh, and was surprised. Josiah was on a ladder the other day and he was shaking this tree. I thought, I hear something. Something and it was getting louder. I was a little slow for some reason, and all of a sudden I was like, Oh, there's bees. And he's up, he's way up the ladder. I said, Hey uh son, there's bees down here. He said, what 'd he do? Well I ran and I said, Lord, you're gonna have to keep him up there. All I know, you're gonna have to look after him. How you gonna get down? Man, them things scare butt I mean neither one of us. We were right at the base of the tree. They were in the tree, about chest high. And I don't know how we missed them, but climbed it, fooled around it, all of it, until he started really rattling that thing and got him upset. They were there. Zacchaeus didn't surprise the Lord. Zacchaeus was look, Jesus was on a mission. I think he had to go through Jericho for this one reason. Because Zacchaeus is going to be in that tree. And I'm going to tell you something. The day you got saved, wherever it was you got saved, the Lord was on a mission. He's looking for you It might have been in a church meeting like this, it might have been at your job site, it might have been on in your car driving down the road, I don't know where it was, but wherever it was, he was on a mission, he was looking for you And my friend, I'm glad there's a Savior in heaven who's still searching. You might be listening or in this service and you've not been saved, and I want you to know he's looking for you. He's watching for you. He's searching for you. He died for you. He shed his blood to save you. He wants to change your life and come into your heart and make you a new creature. He did all he's searching for you. He's looking Boy, that speaks to me of Calvary love. That speaks to me of God's infinite love that's immeasurable. That my friend defies our understanding that he would love me in spite of me. He would love me even knowing me. He would love me and come. Listen, some of you didn't get saved the first time you heard the gospel Some of you rejected. Some of you put up resistance. Some of you said no. Some of you said not now. Some of you said sometime else Some of you said, Oh Lord, I'm not interested. I've got things I want to do, but aren't you glad he kept coming back? He kept coming back. He didn't leave you in your damned and doomed estate. He didn't leave you to die and perish in sin and suffer forever in hell. He kept searching and he kept looking. And brother and sister, he's still looking today. He's searching for you. He's searching. But I like this part. For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. What a glorious conclusion. The Lord Jesus didn't just go searching, he went saving. Saving that which was lost. In that parable he said, He'll doubtless, talking about that shepherd, he'll doubtless come again with that little lamb on his shoulders, rejoicing. He'll be, you know why? Because I found him. I found him. And you know the Bible says there's more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents. The angels rejoice in glory when somebody gets saved. You know why? Because church, that's important. I'm talking about stuff that really matters. And if you're not careful and I'm not careful, we'll get so busy living the Christian life, we'll forget what the Christian life is all about. We'll forget what he left us here to do. Look, we're not here just to bid time and pass time. We're here to point people to the Lord Jesus. There's one thing that matters, and here's what matters, that some would be saved. You know all my living for Christ ought to be done in the view that it might just be used of God to reach somebody with the gospel. All my all my living, everything I do, day to day, week to week, month to month, all of that, listen, all of it should be done in light of the fact that somebody might just be saved because they see the difference Jesus made in my life. But there needs to be more. The things I say. The things I say ought to somehow point men and women to the Lord Jesus. And the one thing I can say that is guaranteed to produce a reaction or a decision is that Christ died for sin and was buried and rose again. I'm talking about the gospel. When you share the gospel, when you tell the gospel, it is not a neutral message. You can't look at it and say, nah, whatever. You either have to say yes or no. You receive or you reject. There's no middle ground with the gospel of Jesus Christ. All our efforts. Marinath Baptist Church, could I talk to us a minute? Everything we do has this goal in mind, reach somebody with the gospel. I don't care if it's a Sunday school class, a choir, a special, whether it's a nursery ministry, whether it's cleaning, repairing, whatever we do, we're doing everything we do to reach somebody with the gospel of Jesus Christ. By the way, we all have to have a hand in it. One can't do it all, but all can do some and get it all done. You see, there is something that matters. When you lay everything aside, and I'm afraid we Christians forget this, especially, especially as we get close around these time of years when we elect officials. I'm an American and I'm thankful to be. But I'm a citizen of another country. My loyalty and allegiance lies there first. And there's people that need Jesus Christ uh everywhere. Everywhere. You work with them, you live next door, you shop in the grocery store, you buy gas at their station. All around you. And you know , there's a lot of things that are going on in this world that just trouble me greatly. But when I start thinking about what really matters, a lot of that just blows away with the wind. Oh, it it it bothers me that so much is done illegally, whether it's entering our country or whatever. But it could be that God's bringing folk here so that you'll get the gospel to them. Since there seem to be so few interested in going to where they are. I'm just saying people need to be saved. If we sit here this morning and really reduce things to what matters, here's what matters. People are living, breathing, and dying. People are taking their last breath. Some are taking their last breaths now, and will soon be in eternity What have we done to try? Now you can't save them and I can't save them. But we can tell them who can. And we can point them to the one who can. Friend, listen, people need the Lord. And at the end of the day, what really matters, here's what Jesus said. Zacchaeus, that murmuring religious crowds upset about this publican and Jesus eating with him, uh the the the multitudes, and by the way, if you read on in that chapter When Jesus said salvation's come to your house, they misinterpreted that and thought, now, all of a sudden Messiah's here, he's going to go up to Jerusalem, announce his kingdom. And the Jews are no longer going to be an oppressed people, we'll be set free. He wasn't even talking about political and national things or international things. He's talking about spiritual things. They miss it. They miss the boat. And the Lord Jesus is saying, look, you know what I'm here to do? To seek and to save that which was lost. You notice how he said was lost? I don't know if he didn't have Zacchaeus right here. And said, For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. I've saved him. Dear friend, has he saved you? Has the Lord Jesus saved you? I don't Not interested in where you belong churchwise or what your denomination is, what your upbringing was, what religious ceremonies you've participated in. All of that's irrelevant in light of the fact have you been saved by Jesus Christ by grace through faith in what he did on Calvary to put your sin away Are you trusting in the Lord Jesus? Like the song this morning, simply trusting. That's salvation's not a complicated thing. It's so simple that a little child can believe and be born again from above. He's made a way. Are you saved? Now let me ask you this. What are you doing to see others saved? Have you forgot the main thing? Have you forgot the main thing? Sometimes in church, now some of you have been saved a long time. And you know what the church gets noted for? The church gets noted for its fights Especially Baptist churches. Baptist churches like to fight. People like to fight. And they get noted for all their squabbles and scuffles and all of that. And you know what happens when that takes place? Somebody forgot what's important. Somebody forgot what the main thing was Somebody got their eyes off of what really needed to be done and what really is important and and and they missed the mark. And brother or sister, I'm telling you that we don't have time to miss the mark because we ain't got much time to shoot Time's running out. Time's running out. And you and I need to be busy about our Father's business, and our Father's business is seeing men and women come to trust him as Lord and Savior. What are you involved in trying to point people to Christ? Maybe it needs to be done today. You need to put yourself on the altar and say, Lord, I don't know how you want to use me. But here I am. Do something with me. Here I am, Lord, use me. Here I am. And Lord, however you can use me to point people to cross. Give me that opportunity. Give me the help and show me how I can win others through the Lord Jesus Jesus said this. Here's his whole statement. Here's his whole mission. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. Would you stand with me?