Would you turn in your Bible, please, to Revelation 22? Revelation 22 is the last chapter of Revelation. It's the last chapter of the Word of God. And I believe it's fitting to look at all of the lasts that are found here in this chapter. Someone said that Revelation 22 is a mini -revelation. It's a portrait of the whole book in one chapter. And then as I began to look at that and consider that, I believe it's a portrait of the Bible in miniature. And so we're going to look tonight at several of these lasts. I hope we can cover them all. We'll see how that that goes. But uh this last chapter is full of last. We get a last glimpse into the future. We get last words regarding the scriptures. We receive last warnings from the Savior, and then it concludes fittingly with last wooings or drawings of the Lord. And so these are the series of lasts that we will look at this evening. I'd like to read the first five verses, please, as we begin. Revelation 22, beginning in verse 1. And he showed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb. In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month And the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. And there shall be no more curse, but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it, and his servants shall serve him. And they shall see his face, and his name shall be in their foreheads, and there shall be no night there, and they need no candle, neither light of the sun. For the Lord God giveth them light. And they shall reign, notice this, forever and ever. Aren't you thankful for that? What we read when it begins will never, ever end. Forever and forever and forever. And just when you think that we're nearing some ending point forever and forever and ever, and ever will ever roll on. And so we get this last glimpse. We'll look at it in just a moment. But let's pray, please. before we get in the Word of God. Father, thank you for the opportunity that we have to gather this evening. Thank you for your word. Lord, what a help it is to us. I pray tonight that you would just speak to us once more. We come to this place awful needy every time. We come to this place very much aware that except the Spirit of God, take the Word of God. And apply it to our hearts, it's all vain. We ask you, Lord, again, in mercy, would you draw near and help, Lord, work as only you can. Hide me behind the cross, help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus and please you in the preaching of the word. And give us ears to hear, Lord, what the Spirit saith, and a heart that will obey. Undertake, Father, for each of us, we ask in Jesus' name. And God's people said Amen. Well, as I said before, this chapter is full of lasts. And these first five verses are no different. We get our final glimpse into eternity. We get to look Through the veil and through the future, so far it's the tribulation, the millennial reign, and we look way out yonder into that place where It will be forever and ever, just like the Bible described. And as we look into that future, if you will , We see several things. Number one, we see life. Did you see that? Two things that bring life in this situation are the pure the pure river of life and the tree of life. Now I'm treading, I believe, on some holy ground right here. And I dare not try to take any liberties to try to tell you I know what everything is what everything is that's being described here But I do know this, whatever this river is, the Bible says in the Psalms that there is a river that makes the people glad. There is a river. Jesus said, I'm the water of life. And so this river of life, whatever it is, is going to bring a life and that more abundantly. And notice where it comes from. It flows out of the throne of God. This river comes from the throne of God. You say, preacher, is it a real river? I've got no reason to doubt it's not. But the reality is that it's a life-giving river. You think about the great cities of the world, how many of them, in fact the majority of them, are built on a river There's some sort of access to that body of water, and that water serves as a conduit for life to that river or to that city. This city is no different because it has a river flowing out of the throne of God, running right down the boulevard of Glory Way, showing us that this life is coming straight from the Lord. And then there's the tree of life. Remember, back in the book of Genesis, we're told there in the Garden of Eden that there was a tree of life, and the Lord, when man sinned, put a guard about it so that man couldn't access it. But here in the Revelation, we close the coming future, we look out into eternity, and we see the tree of life growing on both sides of the river. And on both sides of the river, that thing's yielding its fruit every month. Twelve different fruits. And again, all of this is the giver of life. Now, whatever heaven holds Listen, the Bible is predominantly silent on all of the particulars of heaven. If you've come to this study hoping to find out what color the eyes uh are of the man of sin, you've been sorely disappointed. Because it's not been my intent to speculate on what God's been silent on. And there is a whole lot of things about the future I don't know. There's a whole lot of things about this place called heaven that I don't know. There's a whole lot of things waiting me waiting for me and for you who are saved over there that we just don't know. But here's what we do know. It is a land of life. There's no death in her borders. There's no sickness comes to her shores. There's no people there who suffer or sorrow or weep anymore. She's a land of life. Thank God for this life. Notice not only the life, but he mentions leaves here. He mentions leaves. And I'm glad to report to you, these will be evergreen leaves. These leaves won't ever have to be raked up at the end of the year. Amen. These leaves, it says, will provide healing for the nations. This place, whatever, listen, whatever heaven holds, it's going to be a place of wholeness. for the people who inhabit her. It's going to be a place of healing, a place and and I really believe personally, brother, sister, uh I I'm not going to argue with nobody about it, but I do believe all of these are things that point us to Jesus. Is he not the great healer? He's the great physician? Is not he the life, the way, the truth? Is he not the one who who who binds the broken in heart? I'm I'm telling you I think what heaven is, is just an encapsulation of the Lord Jesus Christ exalted and glorified for all of eternity. I see not only life and leaves, but I see a lamb. And I like what it says here, that there shall be no more curse The Lamb is won. The curse is gone. Sin 's been removed. The devil's been dethroned. Listen, hallelujah. There is coming a day When I'll tell you the Lamb is going to take the center stage, he's going to have the spotlight of every eye, and all attention is going to be on the lamb. And I like this in verse 4. They shall see his face. You're going to see his face. If I understand the writing of this text, it literally means you're going to behold his face forever. If I can say it like this, everywhere you look you see Jesus. Everywhere you look you see him. You can't help it. You see his face. Now I'll tell you that'll make you glad if you're saved. Because I'm telling you, there's a whole lot of stuff you and I got to look at that that I'm telling you it's revolting. It's disgusting. There's a whole lot of things that we are exposed to in the world in which we live that you wish you could never see. There's some things, I'm telling you, there's things you see and you say, oh, Lord wished I'd never seen that. But there's coming a day when we see the Lamb. And the Bible says we're going to see his face. We're going to see him, and everywhere you turn, you may look west, you'll see the Lord. You look east, you'll see the Lord. You look north-south. Everywhere you look, you'll see the Lamb. And then notice the light here. We're getting that last glimpse. It's as if John's trying to bring it all down to a conclusion to say this is what awaits. This is what you have to look forward to. And verse 5 says, there shall be no night there They need no candle, neither light of the sun, for the Lord God giveth them light. And they shall reign forever and ever. My what a place this is going to be. It's your home, it's your future, it's what awaits everybody who's saved. I'm telling you, what you've got waiting on you is a whole lot better than what you'll leave down here. Thank God for that light that shines and for the privilege to enjoy that forever and ever and ever. There is a great mystery about what lies out there. To be quite honest with you, there's a great deal of unknown that lies before us. We do not know all that the Lord has in store. But here's what we do know. What he's got in store is far better than we can fathom in our little hearts and minds. We do not have the capacity to really contemplate the beauty and reality and the glory of this place called heaven. But I'll tell you this, whatever it's going to be like, it's going to be good. It's going to be good because God's there. Heaven is not heaven because of streets of gold and gates of pearl and walls of jasper. Heaven is not heaven because of the song of the saints and angels. Heaven is not heaven because of the water of life and the a and and the tree of life and all of these splendors that we're told of. Heaven is heaven because it's the place where the Lord is Heaven is heaven because it's where he dwells, and it's where you'll dwell, it's where I'll dwell if you're saved by the grace of God And to forever and ever and ever and ever be with the Lord, my dear friend, that is heaven in itself It doesn't matter if it's way up yonder, way over there. Location isn't important. What's important is the Lord. The Lord is there. So we get a last glimpse It's an astounding thing. We could spend lots of time looking at it, but I want to just see, men, in your heart and mind, that what God's got waiting My friend is sure worth looking forward to. What God has laid up and the things He's laid up for you and I I No wonder we're going to need a new mind and a new body and a a whole new house to live in because I'm telling you, it it it would it would explode this little thing that we live in right now Just trying to enter into some enjoyment of it. And up there, can I just say this? Up there, there's going to be no limitation. We're so surrounded by our personal limitations right now. There's the limitation of an old sin nature. Aren't you glad you're going to check that thing into grave? Aren't you glad that that old sin nature ain't going with you over to your new home? That this old sin nature, man, it just gets in the way. It gets in the way, whether if we're out of fellowship, it gets in the way, whether we've grieved God, it gets in the way. Sometimes it just gets in the way, period. But the truth is one day that thing won't be there no more. You won't have a sin nature to contend with. You won't have an old rotten, uh, adamic, fallen nature to battle. You'll be set free by the Lord's power and have that glorified body be in that new state and be forever that way with the Lord. And I'm telling you, when we get home, what a liberating thing it's going to be to get home. That's our last glimpse. John, through pen of inspiration. Shuts the door. And says, that's all the Lord's going to show you so far as where you're going. Now, by the way, if someone says, Well, preacher, they wrote a book, it tells us more. God put a period. Don't let man get his little silly eraser out and mark it out and try to add to what God said is done. We'll talk about that more in a moment. But you see a last glimpse. Let me read let's read verses six to ten, and I want you to look at the last words. And he said unto me, These sayings are faithful and true. And the Lord God of the holy prophets sent his angel to show unto his servants the things which must shortly be done Behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book. And I, John, saw these things and heard them, and when I heard and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel which showed me these things. Then saith he unto me, See thou do it not, for I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which keep the sayings of this book, worship God. And he saith unto me, Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of this book, for the time is at hand. I want you to notice that when it comes to the Word of God, it is accurate. The last word about the word is that it's accurate. Look in verse number 6. These things are faithful and true. The word of God is accurate. That means you can trust what it says. You don't have to put a question mark and say, Yea, hath God said. You can believe it because it is faithful and true. Not only is the Word of God accurate, but notice this announcement. There's three of them. We'll see in a moment. There are three announcements that are made. If you have a red letter edition of the New Testament, you'll note these are in red. Someone said it's as if the Lord Himself breaks in and says, Let me tell you something. Here's the announcement in verse number seven Behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book. He speaks in this announcement not only of the accuracy but of the authority of the Word of God. That there is a blessing attached to those that keep the prophecy of this book. You will never go wrong following the Bible. You will never go astray following God's word. You know something, anything you elevate above the Bible has the potential to lead you astray. It doesn't matter what it is, it doesn't matter how good it may be. It doesn't matter what how beneficial it may appear. The truth of the matter is if it leads you astray, if it's not the simple word of God, it can very easily take you off course This book, my friend, can be trusted to the hilt. You can trust it from beginning to end. One old fellow said, I believe the Bible so much, I believe the cover. It says Holy Bible, and he said, I believe that too. Well, that's the way you ought to believe the Bible, amen. Because it is the Word of God. It's accurate. It's a voice of authority. And then let me say this. He sounds an alert. Isn't this interesting? John has had interaction between heaven and earth for quite some time. I'm sure that what he's written down didn't come in a matter of five minutes I'm sure that there's been communication held. Angels have come, various angels, according to what John said He spoke of different angels coming and bringing word and showing him things to come and all of that. And we get right down to the very end. And John gets this announcement and he starts to do something. He's not done yet. He gets down and he starts to worship that angel. And the angel alerts him and says, Stop. You're not worse than me. Now that tells me who this angel is. I don't know his name, but I know who he's not. I know he's not Jesus. Because Jesus never stopped anybody from worshiping him. Because he's the Lord. But the truth of the matter is, this angel said, Don't worship me, you worship God. Don't let anything receive worship from you but the God of heaven who saved your soul. Notice that alert. And then notice the awareness that is made here. In verse number 10. He saith unto me, this angel said unto him, Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of this book, for the time is at hand. We believe the Bible teaches in an imminent return. That means at any moment. That means we're not waiting on signs, we're waiting on the Savior. We're not looking for things to appear in the sky. We're looking for Him who's going to split the eastern sky and come back for us. His coming is in it. The time is at hand. Now, when John wrote this, the time is at hand. Notice he didn't say the time will be at hand. He didn't say that one day you'll be able to say this, the time is at hand. No, he said right now the time is at hand. Every Christian should live with a sense of urgency of the Lord's return. Every Christian in the New Testament I read about was looking for the Lord to come. The Thessalonians so believed he was coming in their generation. That they said, He's come and didn't take us. That's how imminent they felt his return would be And you say, but preacher, that was 2,000 years ago, and he hasn't come yet. Were they wrong? Absolutely not. It is the intention of God that every one of us live with an awareness that the Lord could come at any moment. The Lord could come within the before this service ends. You say I've heard that my whole life. Well, one day you're going to hear it and it's going to happen The imminent return of Jesus Christ is a scriptural teaching that God has given us to keep us stirred up about the reality. We're all living on the cusp of eternity. Everybody sitting here is living on the very brink of the coming of the Lord. You say, what if it's another thousand years? Well, I've been reading my Bible and found out that God's math and my math are different. My math says a thousand years is a long time. My Bible says that in his eyes it's a day. He doesn't compute time like you and I compute time. They put dear Miss Elizabeth in that MRI machine and said, now don't move. Anybody ever had one of those? You can't move, you have to lay there like a mummy And when they brought her out, it was so funny. She said, You left me in there an hour. It was twenty minutes. Twenty minutes. I said, uh-uh, twenty minutes. Twenty minutes? How did twenty minutes feel like an hour? Well, you all know there are some things that man, five minutes of it feels like a lifetime. Amen But our our mathing is a little different. Our computing is a little different depending on where we are. Our Lord up in heaven said, I'm coming. I'm coming again if I go, not if I go in the sense I may or may not, but if in the in the in the word sense, since I go. If I go, I will come again to receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be also. Aren't you grateful that the Lord made a promise to come back? And I'm to live every day with that burning expectation that He could come today. He could come this very day. The sun may never rise again for the saints of God down here. But thank God the S-O -N will come again, and we may go home to be with the Lord before the sun rises in the morning. The imminent return of Jesus Christ. Why, it's it's something, you know, when you study history, you'll find out that the dark ages were dark for a reason. And one of the reasons the Dark Ages would be called the Dark Ages is because the return of Christ was almost buried as a truth. The imminent return of Christ was not widely preached nor held, and it was a rarely spoke of, preached of, exalted doctrine. But anywhere there's been revival, I've noticed something. Anywhere there's been real revival, there's been a return to a sense of expectancy among the people of God that Jesus is coming. There has been an awakening in their hearts that the Lord could come at any moment. There has been a deep stirring inside of them that says, your Lord is coming. Your Lord is coming. You listen to these songs that are birthed out of revival times, and about half of them are about the Lord's coming. Many of the songs that we now sing about Jesus coming again were written in days of revival. Because the Spirit of God, when he works freely, stirs the heart of the people of God about the imminent return of the Lord Jesus Someone said we ought to go to bed with the thought on our minds that the Lord's coming and get up in the morning with the thought on our minds the Lord's coming And go to bed the next night with the thought on our mind the Lord's coming, and get up the next morning with the thought on our mind the Lord's coming. Aren't you grateful for the imminent return of the Lord Jesus? This canon, speaking of Scripture , will be sealed here in a few verses. There's no more Bible to be added to it. Understand something here. We believe in these 66 books, God said everything he wanted to say. And everything I need to hear. It's all right here. I don't need the Bible and I don't need the Bible plus. No. I don't need the books of men. I have the book of God. Listen, and when this when this canon is sealed with an Amen at the end of this chapter. She may be sealed, but she'll never be silenced. She speaks today. This Bible has a fresh word for everyone that's got an ear to hear it. This book is a speaking book. It's a voice of authority. It speaks something to our soul. There's no listen, there is no other book to compare. There is no other book like the Bible. These last words may be last words, but they're not the ending of the words. This is a living book. It lives on. You pick up any other book and read it, any other religious book. You pick up any other writing that claims to be something on the level of scripture and you read it and it makes a most of it makes absolutely no sense. Most of it is just a jumble of thought and opinion and idea. But there's something about the old Bible When you read the Bible, it says something to you. When you read the Bible, it does something for you. When you read the Bible, it shows someone to you. Why? Because it is God's word. We see these last words. Then I want you to notice these last warnings. And just fitting for revelation She begins to close up with a warning. How many warnings have we been given through this passage, through this chapter, these chapters? Warning after warning after warning after warning. And so verse 11 says, He that is unjust, let him be unjust still. He which is filthy, let him be filthy still. He that is righteous, let him be righteous still, and he that is holy, let him be holy still. And behold, I come quickly, and my reward is with me to give every man according as his work shall be. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city. For without our dogs and sorcerers and whoremongers and murderers and idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie, I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches I am the root and the offspring of David and the bright and morning star. I want you to notice this warning includes several things. Number one, it includes a solidifying. Notice that. Unjust, let him be unjust still. Filthy, let him be filthy still. What does that mean? That means we're quickly going to a place. We're quickly moving to a point. Where what you are will be set in stone. And it can't be changed. Let the righteous be righteous still. I'm telling you, beloved, listen, we're moving so quickly in that way. We're moving in that direction quite speedily. You say, preacher, I got time. You don't have time. You say, but I'll get right one day. If you listen, if you do it today's the day of salvation. You say, but preacher, I'll get it settled here one of these days. Let me have my fun. Hear me now. You may live to see yourself turn into what you are now and be damned for all of eternity. That's a terrifying thought But it's the truth of Scripture. If he that is unjust, he's talking about a solidifying. And in this solidifying comes the separation. You'll notice the blessed in verse 14 and those that are without in verse 15. There is coming a time, dear friend, when what you are will not be able to be changed We're living in the age of grace. We're living in the window of God's mercy. We're living in those moments where you've got an opportunity to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved. You have an opportunity to turn to him while there's still an opportunity to turn. But just like in Noah's day, when God shut the door, there's no getting on the ark. You can't climb up the sides of it. You can't jump in the window. You can't bore a hole into it. God will seal her shut, and there'll be no way. Hear me tonight. Listen, dear friend, there is going to come a day when God will just solidify everything like it is. Every ungodly will still be ungodly. And they'll be suffering in the lake of fire. Every righteous will be righteous and be with God for all of eternity. And none of that will ever change. The Roman Catholic Church lies when they say you can get out of suffering and torment. That's the lie of the devil. That's a moneymaker for a demonic religious system. That's all it is. It's a way to say, well, if you pay me enough money, you know, we'll pray you out of purgatory. Somehow or another I ended up one time doing a funeral with the Catholic priest. Half of the family were Roman Catholic. Uh one of the man uh who died was a Christian, had been born again, hadn't been saved very long And so his family made some decisions, and so the the old priest said, Well, I'll let you go first. That's fine. And so I did the best I could do to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I told the people that they could be saved by grace through faith in Christ alone. I didn't attack the Cat the Roman Catholics, I just simply told the truth of the Lord Jesus. And when it was all over, he got up. And I'll never forget he was supposed to follow his statement. He was supposed to follow his order. And he was so angry about what he had heard. He stood there and heard it. And he was so upset over what I had told the people. That he began to try to go back over everything I said, and I thought, isn't that something? Here's a Roman Catholic priest repreaching the gospel that has already been preached, trying to refute it with traditional nonsense. And I remember him saying that, now listen, if you want to see your loved one again, you need to begin to pay a and and try to pay him out of purgatory, and try to uh we'll pray him out of purgatory, begin to solicit And you know what I watched? I loved it. It thrilled my soul. I watched people get mad. Because they were sitting there thinking, Jesus will give me a free salvation. And here he's trying to sell me something that will make the church rich so that this person can supposedly. And I'll tell you what, he just about had a revolt. By the time it was over, I thought somebody's going to get that man in a dress and drag him out and throw him out the door. And they they just about did You say why? Because the salvation Jesus offers is free. He paid it all. You don't have to pay a thing. He paid it by his precious blood, and he'll save anybody who will come to faith in him. What a warning we get in the Word of God. Then we get this warning. Here again. If your Bible is red letter Jesus is speaking directly. Verse 12. He says it again, I come quickly. Behold it. Look at it, that's the message being conveyed. My reward is with me to give every man according as his work shall be. I am Alpha, Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. The soon coming of the Lord. Our Lord is saying I'm coming. Our Lord is making this final warning and saying, I'm coming quickly. And then notice the Savior's words in verse 16. I Jesus, I love this, because to me, this sets the seal on the whole Bible. I, Jesus, have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, the bright and the morning star The Lord Jesus sets his seal and signature to the message of the book. This is my words, he says This is my warning. I want you to know that I approve. I put my name on it, put my signature to it, and I'm setting the seal on the Word of God. Now the Bible closes like this. We have a wooing. And I use that word because that's a welcoming, winsome invitation to come. It's like the Lord saying, Come. Come. I don't know when uh uh this got started, but in uh Disney World, Disneyland, whatever they call it. All of their greeters are trained to say this when you go there. Welcome home. And when you walk on the property, the people that it's sort of like Chick-fil-A on steroids. You know. You know how pleasant they are at Chick-fil-A? I think they give 'em medication or something. I don't know. Just how it is. They make 'em all so sweet, you know, when you pull up When you pull in a Chick-fil-A, you you just want to eat chicken. They make you want to eat chicken. You may not even like chicken, but they make you want to like it. Tell you have a pleasant day and all that You go to Burger King and they put in here take your head off with an old greasy whopper they f fling out the window at you. Anyway, I'd eat the Lord's chicken for I would the devil's whopper, but anyhow I digress. They say, Welcome home. They say that it has upped return visits by something like seventy percent And when they ask people, why do you come back? Here's what they say. We feel welcome there. We feel wanted there. When I read this last part of my Bible, you know what I hear the Lord say? You're welcome here. Come. Look what he says, beginning with me now. In verse number 17: the Spirit and the bride say, Come. Let him that heareth come, and let him that is the thirst come, and whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely. Do you hear that call from the Spirit, the bride, the thirsty? Would you come? Whosoever will may come. The picture here is of a traveler in an old uh uh uh desert land. And they're traveling. I was reading something. It was an old English book about these travelers who were crossing a desert that was 40 leagues in length. Halfway through was a a water source. They had never traveled through there before. They got almost to it and they ran out of water. And they said, We lay there in the sand, being baked through and through by the hot sun. Their God, who was a well-traveled Trekker, someone who had crossed the desert many times, suddenly jumped up and said, I smell water He made his way to what appeared to be a hill, and it wasn't a very high hill, but he climbed the hill and he stood up there shouting, I found water, I found water. And these weary, nearly dead men climbed that little hill, plunged their heads into that water, and they said, We were brought back to life. We drank until we could drink no more. We left that well. We left that water source satisfied. I thought, what a pitch for the Christian What a picture of coming to Jesus Christ. Let him that is a thirst come. You've been traveling through this whole world and you're thirsty. Your soul's thirsty. You found no satisfaction in the devil's mud holes. All of the counterfeits have left you parched and even thirsting more. But when you come to Jesus Christ, you not only get a drink of water, you get the whole well. You get refreshment. Let him come. Hear this welcoming. Jesus is saying, Come. Oh dear friend, if you're not saved, he's made a way for you to be saved. If you're not washed in the blood of Christ, he's made a way for your sins to be all put away. He's calling you to come. Sinai , the threatenings of the law may put terror in your heart and drive you away. But hear the tender pleadings of the cross of Calvary. Hear Jesus Christ as he sheds his blood and pays your sin debt, hear him say, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I'll give you rest. Hear him invite you so welcomely and lovingly, saying, Come unto me. But then I want you to notice that calling comes with a caution. Because verses 18 and 19 say, I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book, if any man shall add unto these things. God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book. And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy God shall take away his part out of the book of life and out of the holy city and from the things which are written in this book. Can I just simply say to you, the caution is don't pamper with the Bible. Don't tamper with the word of God. Don't tamper with what God's put a stamp of approval on and said, I'm finished, it's sealed, it's done, it's completed. Don't tamper with it. Folks, the Bible don't need to be rewritten. It just needs to be re-read. The Bible doesn't need to be replaced with something. It needs to be revered for what it is. The Bible doesn't need to be rejected any longer. We need to take it and embrace it and return to it because it will show you the way, the truth, and the life. There is nothing wrong with this country if we couldn't just get people to get back to the Bible. And we talk about getting the Bible back into school. We need to start with the church. We need to get the Bible back in the church. We need to get the Word of God back in the pulpit. We need to get the Word of God back in the Sunday school. We need to get the Word of God back in the Homes of every Christian God's people need to get the Word of God back in their lives, back a part of their home, back a part of their minds and thoughts. There's no substitute for the Bible. There's no devotional book, there's no commentary, there's no preacher that needs to take the place of the precious Word of God. This Bible will do for you what nothing else can do. I'll tell you you can pick up and I thank God for devotionals. We hand them out around here. I thank God for good writings and thoughts that men come up with. But I know this, there's sometimes I just need the Bible I need the pure truth of the Word of God. I need the milk and meat. I need God to say something to me straight from his lips. I don't need a translator. I don't need somebody to tell me what somebody what he's saying. I just need him to speak. And when he speaks the sound of his voice. Oh listen, what a difference the sound of his voice makes when we hear the Lord speak. Dear friend, we need to get back to the Bible. Maybe tonight you need to get back to the Bible. Maybe in your life you need to put the Bible back in its place of preeminence in your life. Maybe you need to start reading your Bible before you check your phone. Maybe you need to read your Bible before you get on Facebook. I'll tell you what, there's a lot of goofiness wouldn't be put on Facebook if people would read their Bible. A lot of silly stuff we wouldn't say if we just had the Bible in our minds first. Years ago I went to a funeral with a missionary from Australia. He was an Australian, Brother Gil Anger. He's in heaven now. And Brother Gill's ministry was to go in third world countries and uh teach pastors and train and help them, and he spent about a month with me in my first church. And Brother Gill and I went to a funeral Where a man who did not believe the Bible got up and did the service and when it was over, man, I wrote that feller a letter. I sat there in my pew and I wrote him everything I thought and felt and believed and everything else And Brother Gill looked over at me in that smart elec Australian manner, and he said to me, You feel better now? I said, I sure do. He said, let me suggest something. He said, read your Bible before you hand that letter to him. And then he gave me a portion of scripture to read. And so when I read that portion of scripture, he didn't have to say no more. You say, What'd you do with that letter? I tore it up and threw it away. I didn't deliver it. See, the Bible, the Bible put a muzzle on my big mouth. Sometimes the Bible will do that. Sometimes the Bible will take that fire of hatred out of your heart that's burning. Sometimes the Bible will turn that offense into just simply saying, Lord, your will be done. Sometimes the Bible will say, Here's the wisdom of God. Now you look at it compared to the wisdom of man and you tell me which is better. Sometimes the Word of God will straighten me out when I need straighten out, and sometimes the Bible will stand me up when I feel like I'm about to fall over. The Bible says that a good word makes that soul glad. When you get a good word from God, Oh listen, that's this Bible will do for us what nothing else will do. I don't need to tamper with it. I just need to take hold of it. I don't need the friend to change it to suit me. I need to change to suit it I don't need to take my Bible and do anything with it except believe it, accept it, and read it and be saturated with it and say, God help me to live it and walk in the light of it, because it is the Word of God. We ought to take this caution here, this warning from the Lord very seriously. And then verse 20 He says, He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly. Amen. Even so come Lord Jesus. Here is the coming, the third time the Lord's interrupted and said, I'm coming. The Lord breaks in and makes the announcement. I'm coming. Just want to remind you. I'm coming. And I love this. John, under the pen of inspiration, shouts at the words of the Savior. Can I just stop and say it's all right and say amen in church? If John can amen Jesus is preaching, I'm it's all right for you to do the same. He said, Amen. And then not only did he do that, he answered him back. Even so come Lord Jesus. I'm thankful we can go to church and worship the Lord in liberty. I pray we never get so stuffed up around here that we can't enjoy the Lord and his word. It's appropriate sometimes to say, Amen. It's appropriate sometimes to say, even so, come Lord Jesus. Here's John answering the Lord Jesus at an announcement that he's made for the third time, behold I come quickly. The Lord wants you to know he's coming, and your heart can be excited about his coming, and you can be encouraged over his coming You don't have to bow your head and feel like some backward uh hillbilly because you believe the coming of the Lord. The reality is the Bible has declared it. God has said it. Jesus shouted it. And one of these days you're going to experience it because the Lord's coming again. And it may be today, my brother. Even so, come, Lord Jesus. And then he closes with comfort. Verse 21, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. The Bible starts with God, Genesis 1:1, in the beginning God. And it closes in Revelation 22, 21 with grace. Starts with God, ends with grace. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. There's not a thing you need that grace won't deliver. I'm glad to tell you tonight that that that whatever you're going to face in life, and I don't know what you'll face in life, our lives are such a mystery as they how they unfold and what lies out yonder. And it's likely a good thing. It'd scare us all to death if we knew. But God in His mercy has said, there is grace sufficient. There is grace sufficient for whatever tomorrow holds. There is grace sufficient for whatever battle you'll fight. There is grace sufficient for every need you'll face, and there's grace sufficient through every valley you'll walk through, through whatever darkness you'll encounter. There is grace. And I don't know how to tell you what grace is other than what old John Newton said when he said Amazing Grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now I'm found, was blind, but now I see Twas grace that taught my heart to fear, and then grace my fears relieved. Listen, it is grace that has brought me safe thus far, and it'll be grace that'll bring me home. Whatever you need, whatever lies ahead, this precious old Bible concludes by saying, Grace be with you all. Grace be with you in your trial. Grace be with you in your suffering. Grace be with you in your struggle. Grace be with you in your victories. Grace be with you through all that you encounter. There's grace for every moment, every trial, every day. Every mile, every moment, there is the grace of God. And that grace is sustaining and comforting and encouraging. You got saved by grace, you are kept by grace, you are guided by grace. Hallelujah. One day you'll go home on grace, and this grace of God will be the very reason we're in heaven, my friend, for all of eternity. I sure wished I had steamed to tell you more about grace, but my tank's empty. And I'm gonna stop. But what God listen, what you need tonight, if you're not saved, you need grace. Do you know that? You need grace. You'll go to hell without it. You need the grace of God. A man told me one time, he said, I want what I've got coming to me. I didn't say it to him because he's a whole lot bigger than me, but I thought, you fool. You know if you know what you just said, you'd change your tune. I don't want I don't I don't want what I got coming to me I want mercy and grace. I I've come to Christ as a sinner and I've said, Lord, I'm lost and held down and deserve it, but I'm asking for grace. I'm pleading for mercy from your good hand. And do you know what he does? He dispenses grace through his son Jesus Christ. Dear friend, we need grace. If you're lost, you need grace. If you're saved, you need grace. You say, preacher, I'm running pretty well. You need grace. Keep running well. You say, preacher, I'm going through a dark place. Well, you need grace to get through there. You say, preacher, I I'm I'm having a bit of a struggle right now. You need grace. You say, preacher, I've got a fight on my hands spiritually, personally, and whatever other way you might describe it, but I need, you know what you need? You need the grace of God. Grace be with you all. And God puts the final Amen at the conclusion of this glorious book and simply says, so be it. God's will be done. He's finished. All that he had to say It's eternally recorded. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. My dear friend, as you think about what's coming, for that's been a large focus of revelation. Our eyes really ought to be on who's coming. Not what's coming My Bible says that there'll be wars, rumors of wars, and it'll be so intense that men's hearts will fail them for fear. People drop over dead because they're scared to death. Over looking at, oh no, who are we at war with now? What's going to be the results? What will be the fallout? What's going to happen? And all of that fear. But can I say to you the answer to that is the grace of God? The reality is all of that is just the earth trembling signs that the heavens are getting ready to do something and Jesus is getting ready to come. I'm not so concerned about what's going on out there as I am who's getting ready to come down here. We ought to be concerned that the Lord Jesus is about to return. And whatever down here brings, here's what we know: the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. His grace will be enough. Come what may. Our New Testament is full of hostility towards God's people. Yet the church lived on. Church lives on. Persecution, famine, destruction, death, you name it. It's all in that book. Difficult, I mean you write it. Look at all the struggles. Being a Christian doesn't mean you'll tiptoe tulips to glory. You might sell rough and wild seas But you've got something that every Christian has been pledged, and that's the grace of God. You've got grace to carry along. She might be a stormy sea, but she's got an awful good captain on board. She might be a difficult path, but she's got a cheer, a comforting cheerer, one who will encourage you along the way. Isaiah said you'll hear a voice saying, This is the way, walk ye in it. Aren't you glad for God's grace? And whatever comes, whose coming is more important, but with the what that comes, comes the grace of God. God's marvelous grace. Dear friend, get ready. Dear brother, sister, look up. Your redemption draws nigh. Dear lost soul, I plead with you. Look to him. Look to Jesus Christ. He will save you. Dear friend, listen, you're discouraged and heavy-hearted and battling and just hoping to see another day and hoping it's a better one than this one. Can I say to you? Just look to God for grace. Run like Brother Dickerson reminded us in the song. Talk to the Lord and go and plead for that grace. Go to the throne of grace that you may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. There's going to be grace for every trial. Tom Hayes sung it. I can still remember the Sunday evening that he sung that song for the first time We were in a tent meeting in Hendersonville, North Carolina, and Brother Tom Hayes wrote that song, Grace, New Grace. Brother Hayes got up and he said, I want to sing you a little something the Lord gave me this week. And he talked about the grace. There's been grace for every mile, grace for every trial. I'll tell you what, they just about had to re redo the tent. They shouted and swung on every pole and and kicked over chairs. Man, they had them a time over that song. But you know the truth of the matter is, is that that grace is comforting to God's little children. Because we know wherever we're at, whatever we face, whatever we need, God will have grace for it. Now He won't give it early because God don't work that way, but when I need it, it'll be there. He'll have grace waiting. Friend, we need God's grace, and thank God He's pledged it. And this Bible and this book all end with that admonition: the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. Be it with you all. Amen. Would you stand with me, please? I would