I want you to open your Bibles, please, to Revelation chapter number five this evening. And Revelation chapter number five. And when you find your place, I'll invite you to stand with me. We'll read God's Word. I'm going to read the whole chapter. There's 14 verses here. And I want you to just look and listen and try to envision what is taking place here. John is given the opportunity to see something that is yet to come in the future. John is being given the opportunity to witness A real uh really a miraculous event, something that defies our understanding. And uh may the Lord help us to see that Revelation chapter 5, verse 1, and I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within, and on the backside, sealed with seven seals. And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book and to loose the seals thereof? Now, notice that question, who is worthy? No man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to look thereon. And I wept much, because no man was found worthy to open and to read the book, neither to look thereon. And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not, behold the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has prevailed to open the book. and to loose the seven seals thereof. And I beheld, and lo, in the midst of the throne and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders, stood a lamb, as it had been slain. having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent forth into all the earth. And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne And when he had taken the book, the four beasts, four twenty elders, fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sung a new song saying, Thou art worthy. There's the answer. Who's worthy? Thou art worthy. to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by the blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation and hast made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne, and the beast and the elders And the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands of thousands. Saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea And all that are in them heard I saying, Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever And the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth forever and ever. And you know I feel like when I read that chapter, that we almost need to take our shoes off because we're on holy ground. This is holy ground. Father, help us, please, now, as we open this book, open our hearts. And Lord, help us to see these things and see the worthy Lamb. Lift our eyes towards thee. And Lord, for the next few minutes would you separate us from the cares of life From the the aggravations and frustrations of life and all the things that would flood in that would steal the blessing. And may we just simply see you. Lord help us, we pray. Help me, Lord, to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. Father, I pray that you'll use your servant as only you can. Hide me behind the cross, please I pray. And Lord, we love you and we need you and we look to you and pray your will be done. We pray in Jesus' strong name and God's people said. I want you to notice here that this heavenly assembly Has every eye focused on the Lord Jesus? Here is a multitude of angels, here's a multitude of people. Here's a multitude of individuals, and the whole place is focused on the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now this is assembly, an assembly like no other. I don't know about you, but my heart's been exercised lately that when I come to church to worship in spirit and in truth. And part of what worship is, is ascribing worth. To the worthy one, and acknowledging who he is. But you know the problem is we live in bodies of flesh And when we gather together, don't you know there's a million and one distractions that have our minds going everywhere but where they ought to be? I know I ought to be more spiritual than that, but the reality is when you sit here and look there, there's a hundred things come rushing through your mind. Uh this one's not here. I wonder why. Are they in sin? Have they fallen? Are they sick? Is something wrong? You see someone that uh you know they might have a different countenance about them. You wonder what's going on there. Are they hurting? Are they sick? Are they troubled? And you know what all of that does? All of that turns our eyes away from the Lord. Now you sit there, and I'm sure there's many things that go through your mind as well. And oftentimes when we're worshiping or we're here to worship, by the way, that's what we're here to do. We come to this place to worship the Lord. We sing the kind of songs we sing, and we preach from the Word of God, and we pray, and we we have a service like we have or a worship. uh time like we have for one reason, that is to get our eyes on the Lord Jesus. And we want to see him and we want to hear him and we want to love him and want to want to honor him as we gather here. But my friend, there is going to come a day. There's going to come a day. Do you know you can attend church and never worship? You can you can attend church and never worship. You can Sit on a pew, you can sing a hymn, you can read a verse, you can hear a sermon, you can go through all the mechanical, exterior exercises, and yet never lift your heart in worship of the Lord. And what a tragedy that is. But I want you to know something, there's coming a day, and if you're saved, you're going to be in this great company. And if you're saved by the grace of God, you're going to be numbered among this great number in Revelation 5. And not one of us will be distracted on that great day. Not one of us will be worrying about anything, not one of us will be concerned, not one of us will be troubled, not one of us will be aggravated or up listen. Every eye and mind and heart will be trained upon the Lord Jesus and we'll give him the glory that he's worthy of. I'm telling you what a day that's going to be. No wonder we're going to need a new body. This poor old broken down thing can't keep up with that kind of glory. Why, this body, if we were to be there in this body, I think every atom would just split in every direction giving praise to the Lord. We just disintegrate. in a moment of time. But we're going to have a glorified body, likened unto his glorious body, and we'll be able to worship him like we truly, truly desire. But I want you to think with me about this scene. And as we look at the question that was asked, who is worthy? I want you to note that because it's the theme of this chapter. Who is worthy? Who is the worthy one, John said? And I know there's much prophecy here. I'm not going to to focus on that other than to magnify the fact that there were future events to come. There were things that were to be revealed. And the question that's going over and over and over in John's mind, who's worthy? There's no man worthy. There's no man on earth worthy. There's no man in heaven worthy. There's One worthy Until the elder got John's attention, said, Let me show you someone. He's the lion. And and isn't it this this is interesting to me that the titles that are used that are so uh contrasting one to another. Here's a lion and a lamb, and it's the same person. He's the lion of the tribe of Judah. He's also the lamb that was slain before the foundation of the world We're not talking about two entities. We're not talking about two individuals. We're talking about the same one. That's the beauty of the Lord Jesus. And so he's the line. And the elder says, Behold the line of the tribe of Judah. And then he goes on to say again, notice he's the root of David. And he hath prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seals thereof. I want you to look at this lamb. It's interesting to me that in heaven, what's magnified is the lamb nature or the lamb-likeness of Jesus Christ. Now, God is never at a loss for words. Do you believe that? He's never at a loss for words. And there are times that you and I just can't describe what it is we experienced. We're left speechless. Have you ever been left speechless? We were going to Lock the Gymnasium the other night and it was dark and didn't have a flashlight. We're walking along and I thought I saw something. And the next thing I know, boom, gets the leg, and I'm like, what was that? It was a snake. Well, you talk about being speechless for a minute. I wasn't quite sure and you know I've got in my mind all these things scenarios going through and uh I I'm thinking what you know you just you you almost stutter. You're you're like w w what was that? You don't You know you're left speechless. God is never left like that. And when he uses these names, he's using them on purpose. The Spirit of God said, John, I want you to write this down. I want you to write about this lamb. I want you to write about this lamb that was slain. I want you to write about this lamb who is wort I want you to write about this lamb who is being worshipped. Why? Because the great attribute of our Lord is that He is our sacrificial lamb. Do you understand that everything you and I hope in and rest on and trust is bundled up in the fact that Jesus is the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world? Had there been no Lamb Church, we'd be in trouble. Had John said anything other than when he saw Jesus coming there on the banks of the Jordan River. And he declared, Behold, the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. My friend, listen, there's all but the hopes of mankind resting in the work and person of Jesus Christ. One of the reasons we're called to come to the communion table is so that we will be reminded that we are bought with the price. We have a tangible, visible token of remembrance that Christ died for me, that his body was broken, that his blood was shed, that a sacrifice was made. And my friend, there's no way. The Bible says without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sin. The Bible makes it quite clear that without the sacrifice of the Lamb of God, there would be no hope for you or me. And so in heaven, the attention is turned to the Lamb of God. I want you to notice in verse number six, he's a wounded lamb. The Bible says, and I beheld, and lo, in the midst of the throne and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders, watch this, stood a lamb. As it had been slain. Is that not strange language? Here's a lamb as it had been slain. In other words, the lamb bore the obvious marks of death. He bore the marks of one who had died. In fact, the Bible would tell us that the Lord Jesus, after the resurrection, revealed himself by the wounds in his hands and his feet and his side. He showed to them, he revealed to those disciples that, yes, I am he, I still bear the marks. And do you realize there is one thing in heaven that you and I are responsible for? And that is those marks in the body of the precious Lord Jesus? Can you imagine what it's going to be like to one day to be able to look at those hands that have been pierced and those feet that had the nails driven in them and to recognize that it my sin did that? And I'm saved because of that? My friend, listen, this goes this goes beyond perhaps what we can often comprehend. I r have a friend that and I've told you about God saving him. And uh he set his home on fire and and uh didn't know that one of the little children was still in the home, and that little child was severely, severely disfigured by that fire. I read another story of a of a mother who literally sacrificed her body trying to save a child from a burning building. And fire, like it does, consumes skin. And after that dear lady healed, her hands were severely disfigured. And as that little girl grew up and understood what her mother had done for her, she would often kiss those scarred and disfigured hands. And say, Mother, this is what saved me. This is what saved me. And she had a deep appreciation for what her mother had done for her. Don't tell me one moment, my friend, we'll stand before the Lamb of God with those nail prints in both his hands and his feet The spear pierced side and look upon him with just mere apathy and uh uh no appreciation. I've got news for you, it'll be the song of the ages. And the theme of our praises, that he died for me, that he was the lamb as it had been slain. I want you to notice, I believe here, you see it's the theme of their song in verse 9. They sung a new song. Now what did they sing? Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof. Now watch this. For thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by the blood out of every kindred, tongue, people, and nation. I want you to notice that in heaven we're still going to sing about the old rugged cross. I don't know that we'll sing the old rugged cross, but we're going to sing about the old rugged cross. We're still going to sing about, my friend, listen, if you've gotten over the cross, you need to get back to the cross. Because it was there Christ died for you and me. That's the price of our redemption. The place of our redemption And the theme of heaven's song. I believe we'll finally understand. I don't think we fully do. I don't feel like I fully understand. But I don't believe we fully understand the great cost that our salvation came by. The Bible says he redeemed us to God by his blood. What an awesome price. What an awesome cost. But there, there Unhindered by sin, unrestricted by distraction, there with new bodies glorified We'll really understand what great cost was laid out and what great price was paid so that we could be saved. I believe there we'll we'll understand finally and once and for all the great scope of this work. Because the Bible says, out of every kindred Tongue, people, and nation. There's going to be somebody there representing every people group Around the world. Many of you and I have never heard of, know anything about. But you know what I'll understand there? God made a salvation universal. And out of it there's going to be this great multitude of individuals that have gathered. We'll understand the great scope. And then we'll understand the great work. Look what it says here in verse 10. And has made us unto our God, kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. We'll comprehend the great work. You know something, salvation so much more than just not going to hell Salvation so much more than just having my sin forgiven. God has done a great thing for us He's done a great work in us, and one day we'll fully understand God's made us kings and priests, and we'll rule and reign with him here. That wounded lamb. I want you to see him. Then I want you to notice quickly this worthy Lamb. The Bible goes on to tell us in verse number eleven. That I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beast and the elders, and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands of thousands. You say, how many is that? A whole lot. That's more than you can comprehend. And verse 12 says, here's what they're doing, saying with a loud voice. Worthy is the land that was slain. I know culture dictates a lot of things to us, but uh my brother and I were talking this week that Jesus did not come only just to correct our ignorance as far as the Bible, but he came to correct our culture. With the Bible. And you know, we we often think, you know, oh, uh, you know, we we must worship in silence. God is in his holy temple. Oh no. I'm telling you in heaven, do you know every time I see a glimpse of heaven, if they're not on their faces before God, they're lifting their voices to God? And there's an emphasis in the book of Revelation. Look how many times the word loud is used. With a loud voice. With a loud voice. Charlie, we heard in Sunday in the Sunday school meeting about something that happened at the camp meeting years ago about your dad. And uh he was enjoying himself. I'll give you the details later. But he was enjoying himself at the camp meeting And we often look at that with disdain. You know what that is? P-R -I -D -E. It's just our old pride. It's our pride. But there in heaven there'll be no pride. Here before the Lamb there'll be no pride. All of that's passed. And they'll say, they'll say, listen to this, with a loud voice, worthy, worthy is the Lamb that was slain. To receive power, riches, and wisdom, and strength and honor and glory and blessing. We don't have time to look at all of those, but just let me say this. There's a catalog of worthiness that's that's outlined in that text. The whole theme of this chapter is who is worthy. And the answer reverberates back from heaven, from all of the angels, from all of the elders, from all of the saints, from all of the creatures. And the unanimous decision is the Lamb 's worthy. The Lamb's worthy. No man in heaven will sing of his own worth, for we have none. No angel will declare their worth because they recognize they're created to do their master's service. There will be no denominational groups set aside, though I wonder how Baptists are going to get along. God's going to have to change us for that to happen. But there'll be no set up little groups over here saying we're better than you or we're different than you. All of that's been burnt up in the holiness of God And you know what we'll all be saying? Worthy is the Lamb. Worthy is the Lamb. Nobody there will talk about their own goodness because we're stripped of utter we have none. We are We have no goodness in us. There's none good. There's none that doeth righteousness. We all are s look, we've all we're all broken by sin. We're marred and damaged and headed for hell until Jesus comes and our song in heaven's going to be the worthiness of the Lamb. I want you to notice that not only is it the theme of the song, we saw that in verse 9, they said, Thou art worthy, but it's the shout of the numberless in verse 11 and 12. That great numberless crowd of individuals, they're saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb And they're all uniting their voices together, acknowledging the greatness of this precious land. Now, friend, you've never been in a place like this I've never been in a place like this. I've heard the story, and I've heard it from different sources, and it's been told in different ways about someone coming in during the days of communism and Threatening to kill all the Christians and everybody that that that wanted to escape could, and then they locked the door and worship. And they said that they wanted to worship with true Christians. But even in that great crowd of people who were willing to lay down their lives, no doubt were men and women that are still scarred and marred by sin. Because down here, there's nothing like this that can ever be done Down here, there's still the the the mixture of the of the clay with the with the gold. There's still the the the mixture of our flesh. As long as I'm in this body, I'm living in a body of flesh, just like you. But the reality is up there. Up there, our flesh is laid aside. Up there, every evil and sinful thing has been put away Up there, up there, we're going to recognize once and for all, and for the first time ever, that that all of the purity of the of our hearts made pure by the blood of Christ are going to unite together and talk about nothing but the worthy Lamb of God. Sometimes we gather in here, and you know, perhaps I wonder at times if even the Lamb of God is on our mind. Because we come with so many things of life and so many things in the world and so many things going on in our own hearts. So many of our own inclinations and notions and all of that just gets in the way, and all it does is dims our vision of the Lord Jesus Christ. Up there there'll be no scrutinizing the singing of a song. No one will be standing in the corner saying, That angel missed that note. They did li they didn't keep good time. There'll be none of that up there. There'll be no there'll be no scrutinizing the message that's being declared There'll be no criticizing of the messengers proclaiming it. There'll be simply a united heart in adoration of the worthiness of the Lamb of God. My friend, no wonder it's with a loud voice they said these things. For this needs to be shouted, not just from the housetops, but from the top end of the universe and around the, my friend, all of God's good creation, that He's a worthy Lamb. He's a worthy Lamb. There's no one taking the spotlight. There's no one standing in the way. There's no one becoming a block, if you will, so that Jesus can't be seen. My friend, I've got news for you. Every eye will see him, every eye will behold him, every heart will adore him. Every heart will bow in that humble adoration and cry along with this moment. By the way, friend, if you're saved, I'm reading something that's going to happen to you. You're going to be here. You're going to take part in that. You may have never said boo in the house of God, but up yonder you will say, Worthy is the Lamb. You may be so shy and scared. I remember the first time I said Amen. I just about crawled under the pew 'cause it scared me. That I even said it and then I hoped and prayed nobody turned around and looked to see it was me. That was just how shy I was. I wasn't ashamed of the Lord, but I just didn't like people to look at me And uh but but the reality is up there that's gone. All that's gone. You're not going to worry about that, you're not going to be afraid of that, you're not going to be concerned about that. You know what? You're just concerned about the Lamb You want the Lamb to hear your voice, say, He's worthy. He's worthy. He's the reason I'm here. He's the only reason I'm here. And my friend, we'll give him the glory. He's the worthy Lamb. But then I want you to notice the worshiped Lamb. By the way, worthy and worshiped are very similar. Because worship is nothing more than the express or expression of great worth. When we worship the Lord, you know what we're doing? We're acknowledging who he is. We're acknowledging all that he is. And look what the Bible says here in verses 13 and 14. And every creature, mark that. Every creature, which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth. And such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, heard I say it. Now, friend, what's in the sea? God 's created beings? Fish of all sorts? On this earth are animals of all sorts. My Bible says God's going to give them a voice. I've heard this verse spiritualized to say that it's, you know, the souls of men in various places, but I think that's That's trying to explain almost unexplainable in a way. The reality is that God can give animals a voice. He did a donkey. And that thing talked to Balaam. He sure did. So it's not a far stretch to th to to know that God's going to be able to give The birds of the air, he's going to give the fish of the sea, he's going to give the beasts of the forest, he's going to give all of the animals, all that's created, he's going To give 'em all a voice And you're going to hear their voice. And then you're going to blend your voice. And all of our voices are going to say this blessing. And honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb forever and ever. You imagine what day a day that's going to be? When the Lamb is worshipped in that way I like to think that when the little birds perch somewhere and start to sing, that they're making ready. They're practicing. They're lifting their little voices and they're singing their hearts out. There's a little Carolina wren that'll come sit on the on the post where some flowers are. every morning and the little little wrens are just wee things. They're small, but man do they sing. And he'll stretch his little body out and you can see from the from those little uh start to say hooves His little feet, his little claws, whatever a bird has. Help me, brother Andy. From I mean right from there up, his whole body reverberates when he sings. You can see it rolling. And he'll sing and he'll sing and he'll sing. And you know what? One day in heaven, God's going to give everything a voice. Everything's going to have a voice. You know what he said? He said in the New Testament, if those children didn't praise him, the rocks would. God can give voices to a rock if he needs to. God's going to give all of his created beings a voice, and they're all going to join together, and they're all going to worship the Lamb of God. My soul, what a day that's going to be. There's not only a united voice, but a united acknowledgement. There's going to be a hundred percent agreement. There's not going to be a dissenting voice. There's not going to be an individual who says, I don't think he's as great as you say he is. There's not going to be a soul. There's not going to be a creature. There's not going to be a fish in the sea. There's not going to be one that says, hold on. I don't agree. We're all going to unite together. We're all going to join in and say, He is worthy. And then notice what happens. Verse 14. And the four beasts said, Amen. I don't believe y'all say amen in church. What are you going to in heaven? You're going to hear it in heaven. The four beasts said amen. And the four and twenty elders, watch this, fell down. And worship him that liveth forever and ever. We're all going to take our place at his feet. There's going to be a unanimous acknowledgement of the greatness of the Lord Jesus. And I'm going to tell you something. If you're saved, you want to see that happen. If you're saved, you got that burden in you. If you're saved, the Spirit of God is churning in your heart. Even so, come quickly, Lord Jesus. If you're saved, you desire that all the world might be filled with his glory, and all men know, and all the world know, and all the animals know, and all everyone know that he's a great and worthy God. My friend, it's gonna happen at last. What a breathtaking scene. What a breathtaking scene. And my friend, what I've read to you is one day going to happen. It's going to soon unfold. Soon. Before you know it, you and I'll be gathered in that great number. We'll not be like we are now. I used to hear, I was thinking as Brother Dall was singing that song, we were singing that song, Where I'll Never Grow Old. I thought, who cares? That's not a big deal. I said I thought. I think differently now. It i it's an appealing thing to think I'll never grow old. It's a joyful thing to think that there's coming a day where the limitations of this old body will be laid aside for that brand new one. Thank God that day's coming. There we won't be hindered. Hey, by the way, there we won't be hurried. We won't be hurried. You remember the Bible says they worshiped him that liveth forever and ever? Nobody up there is watching their watch saying, You better hurry, my show comes on fifteen minutes. Nobody up there is anxious about the time of day because there is no more day. No more night. He's the sun and he shines and lives forever and ever. Nobody's gonna get in a hurry. No hindrances, no hurry. And I'll tell you what, there'll be no evil there. There'll be no there'll be no sin to worry about. You know what mars our worship? Oftentimes it's our sin. Whether it's our sin or somebody else's sin, something that that that dims our view of our dear Lord. But none of that's going to be there. It's all burned up. It's all gone. And we're in his perfect presence, made brand new, and there we'll worship him like he's meant to be worshipped. That day will come. And my friend, if you're saved, we'll all gather around there. It's hard for me to comprehend what it's going to be like when when we all get there and when this unfolds. It's hard for me to really get my head around this because nobody's going to be missing. Those loved ones that have gone before us that were saved and we hadn't seen in years, maybe decades some. They'll be there. We'll see them. There'll be no one absent, tied up doing something else. No. We'll all be there. And our whole eternity is going to blossom in a time of worship. Of the wounded Lamb and the worthy lamb. And we'll worship the Lamb of God. And you know the Bible tells us that as oft as we do this, as oft as we eat this bread and drink this cup. You do show the Lord's death till he comes. Do you realize that this was a limited exercise? We'll not do this forever. In heaven we'll sit down not at a communion table to remember the broken body and the shed blood, but we'll sit down at a wedding table. A place of banqueting and feasting and rejoicing. Why? Because the marriage of the Lamb has come. And there with him we'll be united forever and ever. And my friend, what a day that's going to be. Now let me say this: if you're here or you're listening and you're not saved, you'll not be here. You'll miss this glorious scene. And in fact, in your lost condition, it has no appeal to you because the carnal mind cannot entertain the things of the Spirit of God. But the reality is, and you need to hear this, that you, my friend, will not be gathered among these rejoicing. You'll be gathered among those that are suffering. And you'll be separated from God forever. What you desire in your lost, blind, dead estate right now, to be away from all the righteousness, to be away from all goodness, to be away from God. You'll be granted that desire. And forever and ever you'll be in that place called the lake of fire. But if you're drawing breath, there's hope. You've not stepped into eternity yet. And I've got news for you, friend. Christ died for your soul too. He shed his blood to put away your sin. And he'll save you, dear one. He'll save you. I said none of that with any joy in my heart because the reality is there are people who are going to open their eyes in hell. And to me it's the tragedy of all tragedies, because a way has been made. And you can be saved, friend. And my dear brother and sister, communion is not just another special event on the calendar of the church. It's not something that we just do because, well, you know, it's what Christian people do. No, it's what we do in obedience to the Lord. And part of that obedience is that we examine ourselves. The Bible's very clear in 1 Corinthians 11 that we have an obligation before God. To let the Spirit of God search our heart and make sure we're right with God in each other. Paul warned these believers and said, Don't touch those things if you're not right with God. He said it's invited judgment into the church of Corinth and the people of Corinth. They had invited God's chastisement upon them because they were coming to that communion table unprepared. And may God help us to let the Spirit of God have His way and cleanse us. My friend, 1 John 1:9 is such a precious prescription in the Word of God. If we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. How? By the precious blood. May our hearts be right before Him. As we recognize, you see, this isn't just a mere meaningless exercise, it's a memorial. We're remembering Christ died for me. He shed his blood and broke his body all for me. I'm going to heaven not on my merit. I'm going to heaven on his. I'm not my own. He's paid a great price for me. Oh, how grateful. Our hearts ought to be when we consider what great thing the Lord has done for us on the cross. Father, we bow in Jesus' name.