If you would take your Bible, please, and go with me to Revelation 13. Revelation chapter number 13. I'm going to read all eighteen verses of the chapter in your hearing. Revelation chapter number 13. Because of this lengthy passage, I'll have you please remain seated as we read this. But we're going to be introduced tonight to two beasts. Um we looked in chapter number twelve a few weeks ago at uh Satan's reign. And chapter twelve is all about uh Satan and and his plans and purposes and things to come. But then when you get to chapter number 13, we don't see Satan, but we see his princes. These are called Satan's princes. We read of two beasts. We're introduced to two beasts in this chapter. And one is the false prophet, and the other is the false prince. The false prince is the man of sin or the Antichrist. And the false prophet is his propagandaman. And so what we find is that the devil always mimics God 's way. In fact the devil always tries to counterfeit everything that's real. He's got a counterfeit for everything real. And I think we'll see that in this chapter. Revelation 13, the Bible says, And I stood upon the sand of the sea and saw a beast rise up out of the sea. having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns ten crowns, and upon his heads the name of blasphemy And the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard, and his feet were as the feet of a bear, and his mouth is the mouth of a lion. And the dragon gave him his power and his seat and great authority. And I saw one of his heads, as it were, wounded to death. And his deadly wound was healed. And all the world wandered after the beast. And they worshipped the dragon, which gave power unto the beast, and they worshiped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? who is able to make war with him. And there was given unto him a mouth, speaking great things and blasphemies, and power was given unto him to continue forty and two months. Now we know from that statement that we're talking about a three and a half year period. And so we understand that from what's being described in this chapter that we are we put this in the last half. Of the tribulation. So the Bible says in verse number six, he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God. to blaspheme his name and his tabernacle and them that dwell in heaven. And it was given unto him to make war with the saints and to overcome them And power was given him over all kindreds and tongues and nations. And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him Whose names are not written in the book of the life or excuse yes, the book of life of the lamb slain from the foundation of the world. If any man have an ear, let him hear He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity. He that killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword. Here is the patience and the faith of the saints. Now here's beast number two. And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth. And he had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon. And he exerciseth all the power of the first beast before him, causing the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men, and deceiveth them that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in the sight of the beast. saying to them that dwell on the earth, that they should make an image to the beast, which had the wound by sword, and did live. And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast that the image of the beast beast should both speak and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed. And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand or in their foreheads. And that no man might buy or sell save he that had the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name. Here is wisdom Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man, and his number is six hundred three score and six. Now, in this passage of Scripture, we're given wisdom about the workings of these two princes. These are two individuals, I believe, that are going to be very real individuals. I said in the beginning of our study that when you interpret Revelation, if it makes literal sense, then seek no other sense. And so literal sense tells me these two individuals, as they're seen by John, are going to be upon the earth. And we're going to see something about them tonight that I hope will help us. So let's pray and then we'll begin our study. Our Father, we bow in Jesus' name and thank you for the privilege to pray. I ask your Father in mercy, would you help us once more to open the Word of God, open our hearts to the Word of God, and Lord, would you speak from heaven? Father, we're trusting you to give the increase, get the glory, and be exalted. Hide flesh, and may the truth of Christ be preached, and the word of God go forth not in the wisdom of man's words, but in the demonstration and power of the Spirit of God. Lord, we look to you now and thank you for your loving kindness. We thank you for the precious blood. We plead that blood. We thank you, Lord, that greater is He that is in us than He that is in this world. And we pray in the strong name of Jesus. And all of God's people said, Amen. Well, you can easily divide this chapter into two ways Verses 1 to 10 talk about the beast, the first beast, beast number 1. And then from verses 11 to verse 18, we're introduced to the second beast. As I said before, the first beast is the man of sin. He's the Antichrist. I believe that what we read in these first ten verses is a description of this uh supernatural individual who's going to rule and reign for a short period of time on this earth I want to say this in the beginning because I think all of history has been a dress rehearsal for this moment. I believe if you study the rise and fall of every great civilization, if you study the rise and fall of every great powerful leader. You will see in it a dress rehearsal, a dry run for what the devil's going to do in the tribulation period You see the rising of power, you see the rising of propaganda, you see the overcoming of the populace, and you see the devil's fingerprints on every single bit of it. I want you to notice this beast, number one. Notice first his parentage. It says in verse 1 that he rose up out of the sea. And he had seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns ten crowns, and upon his heads the name of blasphemy. Does that sound familiar to you? Do you remember back in chapter twelve and verse number three? And there appeared another wonder in heaven. Look at this. Behold a great red dragon. Who's that? That's the devil. And what did he do? He had seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns upon his heads. And so we see the parentage of the of the man of sin, of beast number one, is the devil. He's the devil's man. He's the devil's counterfeit. The Lord Jesus was God 's darling son. The Lord Jesus was God manifest among men in flesh. The Lord Jesus came from heaven This man is going to be the devil's man. He's going to be the man who is to be the answer to God 's Lamb. I want you to notice his parentage. In fact, if you continue to make the comparison here, you see that he is a satanically energized individual. In verse number two, you'll notice it says this, he had, he saw, he said, which I saw was like unto a leopard. His feet were the feet of a bear, his mouth is the mouth of a lion. So, what does a leopard and a bear and a lion all have in common? They're predators. They're predators. They overpower, they prey on things And so this man of sin, this Antichrist, is going to be not only of the devil, but he's going to do the devil's work. He's going to walk about. Remember what Peter said That we're to be uh wise, we're to be uh alert, we're to be on guard. Why? Because the devil walketh about as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. He's a predator. In Daniel chapter 7, you'll remember Daniel saw a vision, and when he saw a vision, he saw these same three animals that were representative of three powers that would come on the earth. Three dominating nations, if you will. And so here is a man who's a culmination. Now I want you to get this, please. He's the culmination of all we've seen in the past. If you took Hitler, Mussolini, and every evil leader that you could think and put them in one big person or body, that would be the man of sin. He's the culmination of all of that. He's the coming together of all of that. He's going to be a predator. And then you'll notice he has power. Look at verse 2. He said the dragon gave him his power and his seat and great authority. So he's going to have power, but it's going to be power that comes from the devil. May I remind you that the devil is very real. Don't think for a minute that the devil is some powerless cartoon character. You remember the old I was watching some old cartoons uh the other day. You said, why? Well just trying to let my head rest, you know. And and you know, it seems like in all of those cartoons they have this evil little thing that pops up on the shoulder of the character and tells him to do something bad, and then you have a little angel that pops up over here and tells him to do good And usually he ends up listening to the one that tells him to do bad. And he's a little he 's a little devil. He's usually red and got a a uh you know, a pitchfork and a Little little uh uh pointy toe uh tail and and horns and all of that. But but you know, that's exactly what the devil wants you to think he is. Just a cartoon character. Just a figment of the imagination. I've got news for you. He's very real and he's very powerful. He has power. In fact, when this man of sin, this first beast, comes on the earth, he is going to have power, but it's going to be power that comes from the devil. And not only that, notice that he's going to have a seat. He's going to have a place of leadership. And I believe that as that seat represents his place of leadership, he's going to have a place of great leadership. He's going to rise to a place of power, and one of the ways he does that is what we see in the next portion here when we see his popularity. But he's going to begin to ascend He's going to rise up through the ranks, and he's going to be looked to by the multitudes. And they're going to see in him the answers they've been looking for. His power is satanic. And by the way, every wicked ruler who's held power has paved the way for this man to come. It's i i if you could just view history like looking down a funnel And as you look down a funnel, it's real wide back here, but as you get down to the end of that funnel, everything kind of narrows down to one point. And that's exactly what's happening here in Revelation chapter 13. We've come to the point. All of these wicked rulers who've reigned in the past have have have had power, but it has been uh just a mere portion of power. This man's going to have the full investment of power of the devil, and he's going to rule for a time You'll notice in verse 3 his popularity, and here's how it come about. I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death And his deadly wound was healed, and all the world wondered after the beast. You know what I'm noticing in the end of the tribulation? Miracle after miracle after miracle. There's going to be these mesmerizing things that happen, and people are going to go, wow. By the way, know this. The devil is programming people already with that mentality. We live in a culture that's mesmerized by the miraculous. And they'll follow any lunatic that says, I work a miracle. And they won't question his his uh his theology. They will not question whether or not he believes the Bible, he does some miracle or some uh some perceived miracle And everyone says, Wow, would you look at that? You just can't question it. Hold on a minute. You better question it. Because here the the devil is going to work a miracle and his power now Some writers say that this man's going to be given life. I'm just going to say what the Bible says here is that he was wounded to death and his deadly wound was healed. It appeared that he was dead, but he rose. By the way, remember the devil's a master counterfeiter. Jesus died. Jesus was buried, and Jesus rose again the third day. He conquered death, hell, and the grave. And friend, listen, you've got to understand the devil wants to be the mimicker. He wants to be the counterfeiter. He wants to say, see, that story about Jesus It it really wasn't about him. It's about me. And now he seems to rise from the dead. This wound is healed, and all the world wonders after him. In other words, he becomes popular. Notice verse number four, his purpose. And they worshiped, look at this, the dragon. Which gave power unto the beast. And they worshiped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? Who is able to make war with him? Boy, I'd like to take my Bible and spend another 45 minutes and answer the question. Who's like unto the beast? I'll tell you one better than the beast, the Lamb of God. I'll tell you one who's like there is none like the Lord Jesus Christ. This old beast pales in comparison when you stand him up to Jesus. And who's able to make war, he's about to find out. He's about to discover that he may think he's the big dog on the block, but there's one bigger, greater, powerful And there's one who's going to put him in his place with the mere mention of just words. My, my, my, what a Savior Jesus is. But you'll notice the purpose of this beast is to bring worship to the dragon. Folks, understand this. That's all the devil's been after from the beginning. The devil, listen, when he tempted Jesus, you know what he did? He wanted him to be worshipped. He wanted the worship that belonged to Jesus. He wanted that worship and he wants that worship and he craves that worship and this whole thing. By the way, do you know what the real Bible is? Listen, this battle that's going on in our country is not political. You can put a party name on it one side or the other. It's not all about that This thing that's going on in this country it is not about the right against the left. It's about who are you going to worship God or are you going to worship Satan? That's what it's about. That's what this boils down to. Satan says, worship me. He's drawing them in. And the beast, this beast, is going to be the catalyst that says, worship the dragon, but you'll notice they also worship him. And then I want you to notice these next verses, verses five to ten, we see what his priorities are. Notice number one, his war of words. In verses five and six, there was given unto him a mouth. Speaking great things and blasphemies. You notice that? He, through his words , is going to declare war. And power is given to him to continue 40 and 2 months. Notice what he does. He opened his mouth in blasphemy against God. To blaspheme his name, his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven. So you'll see that he moves in a way of war, and he uses his words. My my my. Are we not a culture who's at war with our words? That's what we're doing. Man, there's a battle raging. Keyboard warriors are marching. And marshalling, and making their argument. Oh, they'll come one on the scene. And he has power. The devil's power. And with his words, he's going to wage war. Then notice he's going to wage another war, and that's with the saints. In verse 7, it was given unto him to make war with the saints and to overcome them, and power is given him over all kindreds, tongues, and nations. Now, this is the devil's last fling against the people of God. Now you say, Preacher, we're we're saved and we've been raptured out and we're up yonder in heaven. You mean to tell me there's going to be war with us? No, no, no. I'm talking about saints that are on this earth. It's the people have gotten saved during the tribulation period. He's going to make war on them. And I remind you again that that crowd that gets saved in the tribulation are the people who've never heard the gospel. They're the people that have had been given an opportunity in this window of time. And they're they they they hear the gospel, some believe, and they're going to be saints on the earth, and the devil's going to look them out. He's going to search them out. He's going to make war with them. By the way, he hates God's people. You just better mark it down. He hates God's people. You you might as well understand tonight that you've got an enemy. Some of you may have the personality that says, I don't want an enemy. Well if you're saved, you got one If you're saved, you've got an enemy. He wages war and there is a real battle raging. You know what? He he wants to destroy your testimony. He wants to destroy you individually. He will do everything in his power, and we see that Magnified a million times during the tribulation. And then there's this war over worship. Look at verse 8. You'll notice in all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written in the book of life of the lamb slain from the foundation of the world. You see where the war really comes down to? It comes down to he wants worship and he's going to force it Now, friend, I wish I had another day to just take a detour here and talk about Baptist history and our heritage because we believe in a thing called soul liberty. And that means that we would not take the force of our finger and lay it against someone to make them believe like we do. You'll never in history find or read of a Baptist church state. You'll not do it. You study your history, you'll not find where Baptists held that power and said, we're going to exercise power and force people to believe what we believe. I believe the Holy Ghost and the Bible are big enough to make someone believe what they're supposed to believe. And therefore we exercise this thing of soul liberty. But listen, the devil knows nothing of that. Have you noticed that he converts by the sword? The devil's way is a forceful way. The devil's way is do it or die. And so we see that he's forcing the worship. This beast is the incarnation of all the world's religious hopes. He's going to be every Muslim's dream. Every Buddhist dream. He's going to be every dead religion's dream. He's going to be the answer to all the religious desires who will feed the carnal nature, who who will agree with all of the corrupted thinking of man, he's going to be the summation of all of that, and men are going to worship before him and worship the dragon who sent him. And then we're given this warning. If any man have an ear, let him hear You'll notice that's a familiar, not a it's similar, but it's familiar to that statement made at the end of every church that was addressed in chapters 1 and 2. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. Now he says, if any man have an ear, let him hear. He's speaking not to the churches. Why? Church isn't here. Church is gone. Look, you can't take the Bible and put the church anywhere in the tribulation. The Bible always makes it clear the church is not here. He's talking to an individual. Those individuals who have have believed, who will believe on the Lord Jesus, there will be ones and twos and threes and fours here. There's no church here, but there will be believers who believe on the Lord Jesus. He says, if you've got an ear, hear this. And along with that warning comes this he that Leadeth into captivity shall go in captivity. He that killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword. Dr. John Phillips calls this poetic justice. Because the devil's going to turn on his own. And he's going to do as they do. He's going to do what he does. As those that lead captive, he's going to take them captive. Those that kill, he's gonna kill them. That's just the way the devil works. The devil doesn't treat anybody right, even his own. He comes to kill, to steal, and destroy That's all he does. You see it, and look, he does his own that way, just like he does everybody else. But then notice this: here's the patience and the faith of the saints. Someone said two things are going to be required in the tribulation, Saint, patience and faith. Because literally hell will be manifest on earth. Through this beast. As I've said, I'll say it again: all of this that we've seen in history is merely a dress rehearsal for what's to come. The Roman Empire, do you know if you took a pinch of salt and offered incense, you could escape death? But thousands upon thousands says no. We worship God and God alone. And they got put to death. And you see, you see, that's just a dry run for the devil. He's just doing a dress rehearsal for what's to come. When the tribulation comes, just take the mark. The offer will be, just follow me. Just bow to this idol. We'll talk about him in a minute, but just bow to this idol. Just worship the beast. Worship the dragon. Give worship. All you gotta do is say it. But thank God there'll be some. We don't know how many, but we do know there will be some who will say, We love the Lamb, we love the Lord Jesus, and we'll rather die than deny him. Only God put that in a man's heart. Only God could do that, beloved. So that's beast number one. Now beast number two, notice what it says about him. And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon. Notice his personage. He has the horns of a lamb and the voice of the dragon You know what he is? He's a persuader. He's a deceiver. You know, when I read that, I thought of Jacob. Who killed that lamb and put it on his arm? So when his daddy felt his arm, he said, Oh, that's Esau. Esau's a hairy man. And he smelled, and he said, he smells like the field. It's got to be Esau. But he's got the voice of Jacob. You know what he was doing? He was deceiving his father. Do you know what this second beast is going to do? He's going to deceive the masses of humanity. He's going to have the appearance of a lamb, but he's got the voice of the devil. He's going to look like the Lord's agent. Oh, I'm telling you, church, you better be a Bible student. I don't know how to say this any stronger than just plain say it. If you're not studying your Bible, you're slipping. You're walking on dangerous ground. If you're not a student of this book, if you're too lazy to open your Bible and find out what it says for yourself, you're on thin ice You are prime pickings for the devil. You need to get some discipline about you. Turn your Facebook off, turn your computer off, open your Bible, get a hold of God. Find out what the Bible says, because this is the only defense you've got against deception. This is the only thing you got. But thank God you have it. Thank God for the truth. You know, I bet if I went around this room there'd be people who could tell me ball scores and stats and teams, and you could do it with such accuracy, it'd puzzle us all. But if we started to ask questions about the Bible, what about the Bible? Do you know this? Can you find this? Do you know what the Bible says about this? We might stutter and stammer, and that would be to our shame. Because I'm telling you, when the devil starts running things, it's not going to be what's happening in this world that's going to get you through. It's going to be what's in this word that'll take you through. What the Bible says. So we see here this this uh beast, this second beast, the false prophet, his personage, he's deceptive. Notice his prowess. The Bible says in verse 12, he exerciseth all the power of the first beast. And causes the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the first beast whose deadly wound was healed. I want you to notice he's his propagandaman. He's what they call in politics the spin man. He's the man that takes the story and makes it palatable. He's the one that's going to take the deeds of the first beast, and he's going to detail it in such a way that everybody says, wow, what a man. He's going to be the propaganda man. And I'm going to tell you something, you and I have witnessed that. We we see that in our culture, we see that uh in in other history, we see that that that there's always a propaganda man. There's always somebody who can spin the story so it's good. D do you know I was just thinking this the other day. There are some things that people can can take and fix in such a way that it's disgusting to think about eating. But they can make it and it's good. I'm a firm believer that if you deep fry it, you can eat about anything. You put some cornmeal on it and and and and fry it in some kind of oil, and I don't care what it is, you can get it down Can I get a witness? Amen. I mean just about anything that you fry you can eat. We were down in Hartford County. Brother Josh Bruno invited us to a A uh uh fair, I d I don't know really what it was. They had some tractor pulls and stuff, and they had deep fried Oreos And and they fried ice cream. And I thought, how have I lived all these years and never had neither And boy, I got both. And I'll tell you both got me. I'll just say that. But I'm here to tell you, dear friend. The second beast is going to spin the tail so that these devilish deeds of the Antichrist are going to be palatable to the nations. And people are going to follow him. I want you to notice his power. Verse 13 says, he doeth great wonders. You ought to highlight that. He doeth great wonders. Why? Notice this. He makes fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men, and deceiveth them that dwell on the earth. I want to tell you, you need to remember something. The devil is powerful. And he'll do anything he can to deceive multitudes. Not far from the community we lived, there was a Roman Catholic statue that they claimed from time to time would bleed out the eyes. You say, oh, that's silly. Well, it may be silly. I believe it was satanic. And there were a multitude of people believed that damnedable lie of Catholicism. Because of this alleged miracle. Now, in the tribulation, he is going to call fire He is going to do miracles. That's what the Bible says. And again, the emphasis, you'll see that. Put all of that together as we look at this part of the tribulation. There's miracle after miracle after miracle. We see in verse number fifteen that he had power to give life under the image of the beast. So there's going to be an image, there's going to be an actual image, and I believe it's going to be a very real image. That is made in the likeness of the Antichrist. And this false prophet is going to make it speak. Whether it's sleight of the hand or it's a spirit. Demons are real. And when the devil runs the show, can you imagine what it's going to be like on this earth? There's going to be this power that is demonstrated and the people are going to be deceived. Oh, what a sad thing And it says he would give power to this image of the beast that should both speak, and cause that as many would not worship the image of the beast should be killed. And last of all, I want you to see this passport. In verse 16, he talks about the mark in the right hand of their foreheads. Causes all both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand or in their foreheads, that no man might buy or sell, save he that had the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name By the way, since about 2015, uh implanted chips and such have been used in various places. been tested, been tried out. Employees have had that mark that chip put in their arm or hand or wherever so that they might enter per particular buildings. It's been used to put credit information where purchases can be made. It's not a stretch of the imagination for our culture to see that this could happen. Not that this could happen, that this will happen That this is going to happen. But this mark is going to be the passport by which the masses will be identified. Pressure will be put on the multitudes. And it's either take it or die. Take it or perish. That's what it's going to come to. Have you noticed that it always starts out as optional, then mandatory, then there's death. You you you can you can take it, you know, and and listen, I I I don't want to get into all of the craziness of this thing, but we have seen the power of the pressure of the multitudes who say, you better take it if you don't take it, we're all gonna die. And sheep after sheep. I'm telling you. The devil's running dress rehearsal. Sister Mentira, when you do your programs up here, you practice. The people that help you come and practice. And the last few years you've practiced and practiced and practiced and you do a lot of practice. You do a lot of rehearsals. You go through it, and I believe there's at least one or two where you actually do a dress rehearsal. And it looks like the real thing. But it's not the real thing. It's just the practice for it. It's the dress rehearsal. It's getting everybody ready so that everybody will know what to do when the time comes. To have the real program. I'm gonna tell you what we're watching time after time. Call it listen. Circumstance after circumstance. The devil's lining us up. Get ready now We gotta move. We gotta move. I'll tell you something. I am growing increasingly leery of what the multitudes are for. If they're for it, I'm wondering why I'm trying not to be one of these uh tinfill hat wearing uh individuals that uh sees the devil in everything, but I'll tell you you can sure see him in a lot of things. And if the multitudes are generally for it, you better kind of put some radars out and make sure why they're for it. Here's a multitude that are moved, the masses are moved, and they receive the mark. And you know what this is? If you could put over Revelation 13 a title, this is the devil's playbook. It's his playbook. Here's how he's gonna defeat. If you ever played football, I know probably some of you did. And and you know there there were plays that were uh part of the routine and part of your game and and and you practiced them and you went over them, you went over them, you went over them, you practiced on the field, you Practice as as individuals, you practiced as a team, and you got ready so that when you got out on the field, you were ready to play the game. And they tell me that successful coaches had just a handful of plays that they did over and over again until they were so good at it they were almost unstoppable. And so what they did is they would employ uh y you know, uh whatever play you call it, and and they would they would name it or whatever, and they would tear that out and win the game by it. For how many thousands of years the devil's been following his playbook. He don't have a lot of plays But he's got several well practiced. And it's coming down to one final show. One final battle, one final demonstration. A powerful leader, a propaganda that pulls them the people, a craving for power And a populace that follows will produce an end time scenario where there will be a multitude of people who will make war with the land. They'll marshal behind the very devil himself and say, let's take on heaven. And the God of heaven's going to step out. His son leading the way. And beloved, he's going to come down to this earth and make war. And the war is going to be completed in a moment of time when he speaks. And out of his voice listen, out of his mouth goes a two-edged sword, and the blood's going to flow to the horse's bridle. And he will conquer. Mark it down. He will conquer. This uprising, I like how I believe it was Dr. Phillips who said this, this uprising will be his downfalling. Friend, if you're not saved, you need to be. Jesus is coming. I'm not talking about fairy tales, Aesop's fables, sci-fi. I'm talking about Bible truth. This is coming. And if you're not saved, you may end up in hell. By friend, you had the opportunity to hear the gospel You need to understand that your soul is at stake. What's the battle? It's not about money. It's not about oil. It's not about mineral reserves. It's about the souls of men. And listen, hanging in the balance tonight are multitudes and multitudes of souls. And the devil wants to damn them all. But thank God there's a place of escape. There is a way to be saved. The devil's plans can be destroyed. When that sinner sees its need for a savior and cries out, Lord, save me, and the power of God works in that individual and makes a saint out of the sinner. Thank God, delivered from that death. Delivered from judgment, delivered from hell, delivered from the penalty of sin. Thank God. All through the Lord Jesus. If you're not saved, run to Jesus Christ. Do it without delay. You say, Preacher, how do I do that? You do it by faith. The Bible tells us that by grace we're saved. It's through faith. It's not, listen. It is not by works, it's the gift of God. You and I can come to the Lord Jesus by faith, right there in your car, wherever you're at on your job, maybe driving down the road. I'm glad to report to you you can call out with a heart of faith, and there's a God in heaven who will hear and save you by his grace. You say, How do you know? Well he saved me as an eight-year-old boy. I didn't know enough Bible to fill a snuff can, but I knew Jesus would save me. And I knew I was a sinner. And I knew that the cross, listen, on the cross he paid my sin debt. And the Holy Ghost of God was dealing with my heart. And I just cried out, and listen, my prayer may not have been theologically accurate, it might not have been ecclesiastically pretty. But it sure was sincere. And I said, Lord, have mercy and save me. And He had mercy and save me. And He'll do that for you. I believe we're told about all of this not to satisfy our carnal curiosity, but to prepare our eternal soul. Get ready. And dear Christian, it's time we get serious. It's time we realize that the it's high time that we awake. We're living in the final moments of the final moments. It's time to be s if you if you're going to live for God, just go live for Him. Just go all out for Him. Don't hold anything back. This coasting, carnal Costless Christianity needs to die in the flames. There needs to be some people who rise up and say, I'm done with soft Christianity. I'm finished living in a carnal manner. I'm through just coasting along, just getting the good out of this world. You know what we're trying to do? We're trying to, pardon the expression, we're trying to dance the two partners. Elizabeth, you'll remember old Sister Modena. She said, ever since God gave me a praying knee, he took my dancing foot. She'd say that all the time. And that's true. But there's still some Christians who are trying to dance with the devil and dance with the Lord. They're trying to walk in this world and walk out listen, they they'll come to church and they go through the motion, then they'll go out here Monday through Friday and they'll live for the world, live in the world, live like the world. And and you can't tell the difference from them and the world and you know what they're doing, they're trying to get the best out of both worlds. You've heard it said you can't have your cake and eat it too? The other night Miss Emily made something that was the prettiest thing I've ever seen on a plate. And I said this. I said, you know, that's almost too pretty to eat. And then I thought what I said. And I said, it may be pretty, but this big boy's gonna eat it. It'll be pretty in my memory, alright? And that's all it is now. It's a blessed memory. But I'm here to tell you, friends, you and I cannot live in two worlds. May God help us to see that. We drive our tent states so deep down here that we forget we're heading up yonder. We're pilgrims passing through here. This isn't my home. This will never be my home. Since God saved me, He made my citizenship in another country. And beloved, we're headed to that great land. Oh, let's get serious. Let's get stirred up as the people of God If we could just get fired up about God as we do about all that's going on in this world, we'd be a whole lot better off. Now this stuff makes me mad and stirs me up, but I pray God don't let it stir me like you stir me. I need Him to stir me. I want Him to stir my heart. I want my heart to be alive about spiritual things. Is your heart that way, beloved? Oh, you're saved and going to heaven, there's no doubt of that. But is your heart stirred up about spiritual things? Does prayer move you to exercise it in such a way that it makes a difference over those you're praying for? I look at that little grandson Jack and oh I I want to be able to pray because I'll tell you why. I want to pray until conviction falls on his little heart. I want to pray and see him get born again. I don't want my prayer life to be so muddled up that I can't get through to God on his little behalf. I see my children as they live their lives and I want to ha be have be able to be close enough to God to get a hold of him in a time of need. Church, we ought to get stirred up for God and stirred up about the things of God. There's a need in our lives tonight, Lord. And may the Lord help us. This is no time to be timid. and go hide in a rock under a rock somewhere and say, Oh, I'm a follower of Jesus. Just don't tell nobody. It's time the people of God have a voice, a loving, gracious, kind, Christlike a voice that says, This is the way, walk ye in it. Jesus is the truth and the life. Point men and women to the hope that there is in this world. They're quickly finding out that there's no hope to be had. And you and I know where the hope is. We know the man of hope. This is no time to sit on the sidelines and sucker thumbs and pray for the Lord to come. This is time to get in the game. This is a time to give our best. This is a time to do all that we can for God while we can until the Lord Jesus calls us home. It's time to re-enlist. I like old Mike Holcomb's definition of retire. You remember that in camp meeting? He said I bought four new ones a few weeks ago. He retired. You need to sign, look, some of you tonight need to just get your mind made up and put your name on the list again and say, Lord, do something with me. That don't mean God's going to drag you out of here and put you in Papua New Guinea or put you somewhere in the Arctic. It may mean He's going to get you up in the morning and send you off to work and that co-worker, you're going to have a chance to say, Can I tell you who Jesus is? Or that person that you serve in some way, however it is you work, and you'll have the opportunity to say, hey, can I can I tell you about something? You've come into my life for a reason. You've come to me for a purpose. And can I tell you there's a greater purpose, there's a greater reason that you're here. There's a man named Jesus, and he died for your sin. He was buried and rose again, and he'll save you if you'll call on him. It's time that we put ourselves back in the place of usefulness like Isaiah of old and say, Lord, here am I, send me. In light of things to come, how can we live asleep in Zion? In light of what's coming, how can we just nod our way to glory You know I've never been an airplane. I don't plan to be. But I have been sort of studying the whole thing about. Just in case it ever so happens, I have to. And I've noticed that now they give forecasts for turbulence. Do you know that? You can get a turbulence forecast. And it means if you're flying that way in that direction over that particular place, that the air may be more volatile. And so that would be the day I would call and say, um, sorry, uh I need a refund on that ticket because I'm not going that direction. But here's what I wanted to say about turbulence. They tell me that you can be flying along just like on a sea of glass, and when you hit turbulence out of nowhere, that plane drops and Shudders and moves and that'd be about the time I'd say I'm coming home, Jesus. Because I know that's what would happen. My heart would stop a minute I think we've been flying along easy. And the Lord's saying, Church, wake up These are troubled waters. These are difficult days. This part-time Christianity is of no value when you're fighting a full-time devil. There needs to be some full-time Christians. Are you one of them? Am I one of them? God help me. May the Lord help us. If you're not saved tonight, call on him. We're going to have an invitation. I'll have repentance. Just come on ahead, come while I'm finishing. And you cry out to him, Christian, is God dealing with your heart? Why don't you let him help you tonight? Stand with me, please. Father, do a work.