For the grace of God. You know grace uh i it's one of those things that you don't get it until you need it. We often want dying grace when we're not dying. And we want other kinds of grace when it's not needed at that moment. But I promise you this: when you need the grace of God, it'll be available. And sufficient. That's what the Apostle Paul learned. He said that he had learned in all of that weakness and in all of his difficulty. The Lord spoke to him and he said, I know your grace. The Lord said, My grace is sufficient for thee. And God's grace is still sufficient. And I appreciate that good reminder here this evening. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to Revelation 11. Revelation 11. As we're studying our way through the book, we have come again to an extension of the parentheses that started in Revelation chapter 10. We've been looking at the judgments. We've already looked at the first seven judgments. Now we're dealing with the trumpet judgments. And as we get to the trumpet judgments We , understand they're divided into four and three, like the first seven were. And the last three of these judgments are called the woe judgments. And we're coming up quickly on the very last judgment, but before that comes, there is the parentheses. And the first parentheses begins in chapter 10, and we looked at the uh The two main characters that it magnified, and that is is Jesus, the Lord Jesus, and John And oftentimes, I I'm noticing as we are going through Revelation that the Lord puts the brakes on what's going on down on earth. And he lifts our eyes to heaven and he says, I want you to see me. I want you to see what I'm doing. Because let me remind you, if we go back and let me just read this first verse. Revelation is not all about Antichrist. It's not about all of the end-time uh unveilings. Revelation 1 -1 states the purpose of the whole book. The revelation of Jesus Christ. That's what it is. It's a revelation of Jesus Christ. And if you get a hold of that, you'll get a hold of what revelation is. It really is about him. It's about who he is and what he's doing and what his will is. And so Revelation 11 Is an extension of this parentheses. And once again, we are called to look upon the Lord, and we'll see that here in just a moment. But the emphasis of this chapter Is God's two witnesses. There are two witnesses that are going to come to this earth and do God's bidding. And do God's pleading and even do some judging. But these two witnesses are going to come and walk the earth. Let me read it beginning Revelation 11. Let's begin in verse 1 And there was given me a reed like unto a rod. And the angels stood, saying, Rise and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and them that worship therein. But the court which is without the temple leave out, and measure it not, for it is given unto the Gentiles, and the holy city shall they tread underfoot forty and two months. And I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and three score days clothed in sackcloth. These are the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks, standing before the God of the earth. And if any man will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouth, and devoureth their enemies And if any man will hurt them, he must in this manner be killed. These have power to shut heaven That it rain not in the days of their prophecy. And have power over waters to turn them to blood, and to smite the earth with all plagues as often as they will. And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them and shall overcome them and kill them. And their dead bodies shall lie in the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom in Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified. And they of the people in kindred tongues and nations shall see their dead bodies three days and a half, and shall not suffer their dead bodies to be put in the graves. And they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them and make merry, and shall send gifts one to another, because these two prophets tormented them that dwell on the earth. And after three days and a half, the Spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet. And great fear fell upon them which saw them. And they heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them, Come up hither. And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud, and their enemies beheld them. I don't like to interrupt reading the word of God, but I like that. Their enemies beheld them. It's almost like the Lord says, I just want you to see something. Just look. In verse 13, the same hour there was a great It was very great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and in the earthquake were slain a men seven thousand, and the remnant were affrighted, and gave glory to the God of heaven. The second woe is passed, and behold the third woe cometh quickly. And the seventh angel sounded. And there were great voices in heaven, saying, The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his cros. And he shall reign forever and ever. And the four and twenty elders which sat before God on their seats fell upon their faces and worshiped God. Saying, We give thee thanks, O Lord God Almighty, which art and was and art to come, because thou hast taken to thee thy great power and hast reigned. And the nations were angry And thy wrath is come, and the time of the dead that they should be judged, and that thou shouldest give reward unto thy servants, the prophets, and to the saints, and them that fear thy name, small and great. And should it destroy them which destroy the earth? And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in his temple the ark of his testament. And there were lightnings and voices and thunderings and an earthquake and great hell. We'll stop reading there as we look at these two witnesses tonight. I want to focus on these to as they minister and get their mandate from God. And then I want us to look at uh the the conclusion of their ministry and what the whole purpose of it was. Let's pray together. Father, we sure need your help. I thank you for the word of God. I thank you for the Spirit of God, and I pray for these few moments that we have together. Would you help us to tune out the noise of the moment? The distraction of the devil, the aggravation of the flesh, and all the other things that would keep us from hearing from thee. Give us ears to hear what the Spirit saith. And Lord, do a precious work in every heart. We'll give you glory. For we ask these things in Jesus' name. Lord help me, please. Hide me behind the cross and again help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. For it's in his strong name we pray. And God's people said Have you ever noticed how God always counters the devil's move? The devil's got two, if I can say it like this, witnesses. There are two witnesses on the earth. You have the false prophet and the beast. And to these two he counters with his two witnesses. The center of their activity is Jerusalem. I think that's very clear in verse number 8 because he calls it spiritually Sodom in Egypt. And he makes this statement where Our Lord was crucified. Now we know where they're at. The center of their activity is there in Jerusalem, and here they are enforcing their preaching with judgment miracles. You notice that it says that they devour their enemies, and if any man will hurt them, he must in this manner be killed. How with the fire that proceeds out of their mouth Now, as we look at these two witnesses, I want to remind you that what's important is what God is doing. Always remember as you think about the end times, the end times are not so much about what man's doing, but about what God's doing. The end times, you know, we get I think we miss up, we mess up on prophecy and we miss out on prophecy because we get so focused on what man's doing, what the devil's doing what's happening on earth that we forget simultaneously there are things going on in heaven. And what's going on in heaven is a whole lot more important than what's going on on earth. What God's doing and about to do matters more than what the devil's doing and what he's about to do. And so we see these messengers, these two messengers. I want you to notice if you're making notes tonight, look at their mandate in verses 1 to 5. In verse number 1, we see them measuring the temple. The temple of God, the altar, and them that worship therein. Let me remind you that we interpret the Bible literally where it makes literal sense. And so I believe this to be the literal temple. You say, preacher, there's no temple on the mount. There's no temple that has been built. Well, hold on, it's coming. There will be a third temple. That temple will be rebuilt and these men these messengers, these uh men that have a mandate from God They'll come upon the scene and they'll go to that temple, and here they're given the mandate to measure the temple. That literal temple will stand. I can still hear Gershon Solomon, he visited our church. He was the head, the founder of the Temple Faithful Movement, and their goal was and is to rebuild the third temple. They've collected all of the the items that are needed. They have reconstructed so many of the things, artifacts to be able to to worship. They uh are training. They actually have a temple training institute where they're training priests. Who are going to carry out the sacrifices, they're getting ready. And he was in our church and he was sitting on the platform. He was wounded in the six-day war. Uh and he was unable to stand for very long, and he's sitting in his chair and he looks all relaxed. And so during a question-answer time, somebody said, But what about the mosque? What about the d what about that thing that's sitting there where the temple's supposed to be? And Brother Gershon never he never I say brother, I hope he gets saved. But uh Gershon when he when he looked up he never blinked. He said I don't know, one day it goes boom. Be gone. One day it will. Because the Bible says it's going to be a temple. And it's not going to be a reformed Muslim temple. It's going to be a rebuilt Jewish temple. It'll be where they worship the true God. That day's coming, beloved, and those messengers have a mandate to measure that temple. But then notice the time that is mentioned here in verse 2. The court which is without the temple leaf out and measure it not, for it's given unto the Gentiles. And the holy city shall they tread underfoot forty and two months. If you take and divide that, you'll find that to be a three and a half year period. If we use the biblical calendar, which is 360 days, that's what this time period comes to. These men will have a a a mandate and that mandate will extend for a three and a half year period. They're going to be granted an allotment of time. Now we know the tribulation is is very um distinct in its time. There's a seven year period. During that seven year period it's divided in two parts. It's divided in the first three and a half years and then the latter three and a half years, which make up the seven years. Now, the first three and a half years are going to be a time of false peace. It's going to look like the Antichrist knows what he's doing. It's going to appear that he's in charge, that he's leading the world to a better place, that things are improving, not not not uh uh uh disintegrating or being destroyed destroyed. It it's it's literally a time of of great uh false peace and it's a time of prosperity and it looks like the the the the God of heaven has smiled on man for three and a half years. There's a lot going on in those three and a half years. We've already been studying a lot of that as far as wars and rumors of wars and all of the suffering that's taking place. But right in the middle of the three and a half years, the Antichrist is going to do something to reveal who he is. He's going to go in, he's going to offer up that abomination of desolation, and the eyes of the Jewish people are going to be open. They're going to understand this is a fake, he's a phony , he's the devil's man And then the last three and a half years unfold. And if I can say this graciously and carefully, it's going to be a time of literal hell on earth. For three and a half years, this is the time of Jacob's troubles. This is a time of great sorrow and great suffering. Now, I believe there's good men that believe otherwise And I'm not going to argue because I don't think the Bible makes it dogmatically plain. But I do believe that these men are going to have a a ministry in the latter part. Of the three and a half years. Say why? Because the judgment, verse eighteen, that they talk about is the judgment of men. That that end of time. This thing's they're at the end of this thing. They're not up here at the beginning And then you'll notice starting in verse number three, he says, I will give power unto my two witnesses. Now you know something? I I I've thought about this and and I don't want to waste time. I I I pray God to help me never to waste time behind this pulpit, because this is sacred and special time. But I pondered just for a wee moment of spending the time trying to convince you who I believe these two are. And the Holy Spirit said, eh Because if you read the text and study the Bible, we don't have a name for these two men. Now we have an inkling, I I have an inkling of who they are. You say, preacher, who are they? Well, I believe they're the two men who've yet to die. I do believe that it it it could very well be Elijah and it could very well be Enoch Both are significant to the end times. Some believe it's Elijah and Moses because of the reference made here to the part of the waters. And listen, if you believe that, I'm not going to part fellowship with you. We're not going to fight over foolish things. But here's what I do know there are two witnesses and God sent them. There are two witnesses that God has appointed and ordained and said these two men are going to be my witnesses. Two men, two witnesses. He likens them to two olive trees. I believe they're Jewish men, obviously And then he says that they're they're they're uh like the two candlesticks, and the candlesticks bear witness for God, and that's what they're going to do. They're going to bear witness. Now watch this. The Bible says, if any man will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouth. Isn't that something? Before their appointed time in that three and a half year period, if if the Antichrist wants to destroy them, he can't do it. If he sends an army after them, he can't get them, because fire is going to come out of their mouth and go and devour them, just like that. You say , can God do a thing like that? You better believe he can. You remember when they went looking for Elijah and And and and uh the the they s uh Ahab was was on his trail and trying to send some men and and he sent a company of men and he said, uh uh are you the man of God? And he said, If I be a man of God, let fire come down out and fire. Woo. Burn them up. That third man that came with the company was a a godly man and he said, Have mercy on us. We know you're God's man, don't burn us up. Have mercy on us. And he said, Would you go with us? And what I'm trying to say is that's what's going to happen during this period of time is these two men bear witness. They have power. Look at their power, they can shut heaven up They can uh cause the rain not to fall. They can turn waters into blood. And they do it, it says often as they will. Now I want you to notice not only the mandate of these two men, but now let's look at their ministry. And I've already touched on it because I've mentioned their miracles. The miracle of fire proceeding out of their mouth, the miracle of withholding rain, the miracle of changing the water into blood. And the miracle of smiting the earth with all plagues as often as they will. By the way, you know something? The last days are going to be days of great miracles. Now, know this, the devil's going to counterfeit them. This beast and false prophet, there's going to be a miracle we're going to read about here in a little bit as we study through, and you're going to think. Wow. How did he do that? He's going to receive a mortal wound and be raised up. And we look at that and we say, What is that? That's the power of the devil. Now, folks, listen, there is a keen interest in power, and a lot of people don't care where it comes from, just so long as they get to witness it. There's a there's a keen interest in this thing of supernatural power. Uh there there's a great deal of of the interaction I was I was shocked on a uh recent history thing that they're planning a paranormal investigation at this particular place. And and they they they thought that they you know they they might could conjure up some of the the dead that are there Well, I tell you the only thing you're gonna conjure up. You're not conjuring up the dead. You're conjuring up the devil. You're not conjuring up the dead, you're conjur Abdamas You're not talking with the dead, those that have departed. You're talking with the evil spirits. And I'll tell you, there's such an interest in that today that we ought to be aware that we're moving to a time where men are going to be mesmerized by miracles. By the way, you got something better than a miracle. You got a manuscript. You got the word of God. You don't need a thunder-lightning show. You don't need something to wow you. You need something to guide you. And you have the precious word of God. But then notice the misery. And I'm calling this section the misery here under their ministry, starting in verse 7, because it says, when they shall have finished their testimony. The beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them and shall overcome them and kill them. Let me say again, he'll only do that at the permission of the Lord. He doesn't have power to do that for the first three and a half years. He don't have the opportunity, he can't do that. And and beloved, remember this all throughout Revelation, it is stated emphatically that God still rules over the devil. That no matter how wicked man gets, and no matter how close to the coming of the Lord we uh we get to, that the Lord is still God, he's still on the throne, he's still in charge, and the devil moves at his permission. Verse 8, their dead bodies lie in the street of the great city. Verse 9, the people, kindreds, tongues, and nations shall see their dead bodies. Three days and a half. You know there are a lot of people who form their theology based on their understanding, their current understanding of what the Bible says. And they said this must be a mystical reference because there's no way that everybody on the earth can see a particular place and particular events. And so this must be spiritualized. Well here we are. 2025. It can flood on the far side of China, and you can see it in thirty seconds. And you can watch it. There uh I don't know if if any of you ever follow some of these earth cams and and there are places around the world that have got these cameras set up you can watch live real time what's happening in different places of the world. We lived up north. I had all my uh cameras set up on the Trans Canada Highway, uh especially in the wintertime, and you could see the condition of the highway. uh in in several places whether it was closed or blown on blown in from the snow or all of that stuff and and we would watch those before we'd go to church we'd turn them on and say, Well we're gonna make it across or not, you know You watch it live, and you know this, and to us, that's not a big deal. We sit here tonight and we're like, preacher, that's not a big deal. But many of you are are living and have lived in a time when that was not possible. It just wasn't possible. We did not have that instant connection. You heard about things. Who was telling me? Somebody was telling me that uh they remember uh someone in their family hearing about the bombing of Pearl Harbor over here in the old s in the old uh Sanctuary of our church. It's you, sister. Yeah, you was telling us about that. And and how they they came in and and I guess word had finally filtered down and gotten way out here in Cecil County and and and they were telling about what happened. Now it's instantaneous, and we don't think anything about it. And the day's going to come when these two witnesses are killed, And the cameras are going to train on them, and all of the uh eyes of the world are going to be on them, and they're going to say, Look, there lies those two witnesses, and for three and a half days they're going to view their dead bodies, and then look at this Verse 10, they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them. Make Mary. Send gifts. Because these two prophets tormented them that dwell on the earth. Can I say to you, they tormented them with truth. I don't know how to say it other than just say it, there's going to be a whole lot of people glad when the church is gone. There's going to be a group of people that are going to be elated that the aggravated believers are out of here. Spirits already in the world, by the way. That Spirit's already working among us. That spirit's already very present. Was it Janet Albright who said that the greatest threat to civilization is fundamentalist Christianity? That it was a great threat to civilization. And I'm sure that there there's even deeper undercurrents of that of people that will say, look, when all these Christians are finally gone, when all when they're out of our hair, when they're they're put away somewhere Or they go away or whatever happens to them, it's going to be a glad, happy day. These two witnesses, when they're gone, they're going to send gifts, make merry, it's going to be a national, international holiday. They're dead and gone out of our hair. But isn't it just like God? That just when the devil's partying the biggest, just when he thinks he's won the great fight. Just when he thinks he's finally silenced all of his opposition, God goes and shows his glory. Because the Bible says life's going to enter in him. Look, we're gonna be in heaven. This isn't something we're gonna be down here worried about. But but I'll tell you, isn't it gonna be something when the camera's on them and you see old Elijah's legs start quivering And you see him set up, maybe rub his old eyes. And they stand up on their feet. And then the Bible says there's going to be a voice from heaven, say, Come up hither. And up those two men are going to go to glory. Man, what a manifestation of God's power. What a demonstration of God's great glory. Oh, listen, not only are they going to raise be raised to life, but you're going to see the rocking of the city of Jerusalem. Look what it says. After verse 11, three days and a half the Spirit of life from God entered into them. They stood upon their feet, and great fear fell upon them which saw them. And they heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them, Come up hither, and they ascended up to heaven in a cloud, their enemies beheld them. And the same hour there was there a great earthquake. And the tenth part of the city fell. Hey, does that sound familiar? A great earthquake? You remember there was another day when somebody died? There was another day when the graves opened up. There was another day when God shook Jerusalem from center to core. There was another day. It was the day King Jesus got up out of the grave, my friend. And then says it's slain of men, seven thousand. Seven thousand. Now they tell me, and I've not studied this out my personal self, I've read of others, that if studied that statement, slain of men. That this is literally great men, men of renown. It is a reference, perhaps, to people of power, people in high authority People that are celebrities, people that are well known, individuals that have a name and everybody's eyes are upon, and God kills 7,000 of them. What I'm trying to say is that God's power is going to be manifested. See, the devil thinks he has great power. Here he is, kills the two witnesses, and thinks, well, three days they're dead, they're done, it's finished, it's over. But just when he thinks he's won the day, the God of heaven says, let me show you one more thing And I love that fact it says their enemies beheld them. I I don't know, but it it's almost like the Lord takes the old devil and says, Come here a minute. Watch this. I just want you to see. Those two men you killed, watch them, here they come. I'm glad I serve a god that's like that. Greater is He that is in you than He that is in this world. And the end times, if you don't keep your eye on the scripture, if you don't keep your Mind full of the Word of God, if you don't keep your thoughts on truth, you'll begin to start thinking that the devil's greater than God You'll begin to start considering that powers of darkness are greater than the power of light. You'll begin thinking that somehow or another that the devil's going to win the day. I've got news for you. He don't win anything He's not going to win. God's going to show his great glory and power, and he does it all through the tribulation. He lets you know I'm still God. We see a manifestation of his power and glory. And then we get our eyes turned on the Master. Verse 14 says, The second woe is past, and behold, the third woe cometh quickly. And the seventh angel sounded, and there were great voices in heaven saying, Listen to this. Old Leonard Ravenhill said he used to sit down and read this on Sunday night. He said, worn out and tired from preaching, often discouraged and disheartened from a lack of response, he would open his Bible and read Revelation 11:15. And he would bow his head and say, Lord, hasten the day. The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever. This is the the master being crowned. By the way, David is a picture of the Lord Jesus. Did you know that? And when you look at David, Jesus is that greater son of David, but David had three crownings in his life. Three times David was crowned. David was crowned as a lad by Samuel, made king. David was crowned by Judah in Hebron, made king over Judah. David was crowned by all of Israel later on. After the seven years of ruling in Hebron, he was brought up. David was crowned three times as king. Do you know in the Revelation Jesus is crowned three times? In Revelation chapter five, he's crowned when we take our crowns and lay them at his feet. In Revelation 11, he is crowned as the rightful King of the earth. In chapter 19, he's crowned again. He's King of kings and Lord of Lords. Three times Jesus is crowned. I want you to notice this crowning. Now, by the way, there are two scenes. You've got to keep in mind. There are two scenes always in Revelation. There is a scene of rage on earth, but rejoicing in heaven. There's a scene of conflict down here, but a crowning up there. It says, after these crown, again the voices in heaven are saying, The kingdoms of this world have become the kingdoms of our Lord of his Christ, He shall reign forever and ever. Oh, what a day that's going to be. By the way, hell's still raging, but God's still ruling. There's conflict down here. It's coronation day up yonder. Listen, down here there's a there's a whole by the way, church, I'm going somewhere with this. You've got to keep your eye on what the Bible says. You've got to keep your eye on what the Bible says. You don't trust how you feel, you don't trust what you think, you don't trust what you view going on. Listen, if you sat down and read the and listened to the news and watched the news And for say for the next twelve hours that's all you did, you would think God was dead. We need to have his funeral and drop our heads and just hope for the end. But you pick up this Bible. You pick up God's Word. You realize my God's not dead. You realize He still rules and reigns You realize he's on the throne. You begin to understand, hey, that what's happening in heaven is a whole lot better than what's going on down here below. They crown him, King of Kings. The kingdoms of our Lord and of His Christ. And I love that. He'll reign forever and ever. There shall be no end. Verses 16 and 17 give us the cry of the worshipers. The four and twenty elders which sat before God on their seats fell upon their faces and worshiped God. I'm going to tell you something, true worship don't lift you up, it lowers you down. True worship never has elevated man, it's always lowered him. True w I'm talking about true worship. There's a whole lot of worship, modern worship just ain't worship. There's a whole lot of worship that's just the mere emotions of man getting stirred up by somebody that knows how to manipulate. There's a whole lot of worship that you know somebody sent me a video and said, look at these kids worshiping. They weren't worshiping So preacher, how can you make that judgment? I make that judgment on the authority of Scripture. They were bouncing like kangaroos to something that you couldn't hardly even understand. And then uh it went on to give in the article, it said, but the morals of our campus have not changed. That the same number of young people who cohabitate, that means shack up and live together in sin, continues even though they worship and confess Jesus Christ. So I'm telling you, on the authority of the Word of God, that's not the work of the Lord. Because if the Lord saves you, you want to get out of the sin and business. You're not interested in going on living like you've always been living. You want to live differently because you're under new management. When new management comes in, he changes things. Makes a difference in us This worship they fall on their faces. Now you look at this great crowd, and they're laying low before God They're on their faces. By the way, look where they're seated. These these uh four and twenty elders which sat before God on their seats. And I again, I told you in the beginning, I believe this is a representation of both Old and New Testament saints. I believe it's a representation of the very peoples of God. These are those notable ones we might call them, these notable ones, and they're seated here, and they're seated before God, and what do they do? They hit their face They fall before. Even the angels in heaven. Listen to me. When Isaiah caught a glimpse back in chapter number six. Those angels that flew around, those cherubim, they flew around and had two wings that covered their face. Two wings that covered their feet and they flew with the other two. They covered their faces in holy awe. They were before God. We're not talking about fallen creatures. We're talking about created beings for the purpose of bringing glory to God. And they've covered their faces in the presence of the Lord. I fear a lot of times we don't know much about being in that sort of presence, but in that presence, when we're in the presence of the Lord, there's no man haughty, there's no man lifted up. All men hit their face and say, Oh Lord, you alone are worthy. We see their cry of thanksgiving as they look at verse seventeen, saying, We give thee thanks, O Lord God Almighty. Which art and wast and art to come, because thou hast taken to thee thy great power and hast reigned. Taking that place of rulership, of leadership, he's reigning and ruling. And they bow on their faces and they worship and cry and thank him. And then we come to the conclusion under our master here in verses 18 and 19. In verse 18, there's a time of reward. He calls it the time of the dead, that they should be judged, and that thou shouldest give reward unto thy servants, the prophets, to the saints, and to them that fear thy name, small and great. Time of reward. And then the temple, verse 19, the temple of God was opened in heaven. Now remember, we were talking about a temple on earth. A defiled temple, by the way. But now there's another temple we look into, and it's not the one down here. It's the one up yonder. And when we look in there, there's the ark of his testament, and there were lightnings and voices and thunderings and earthquake and a great hail. It's a tremendous scene. I come to this conclusion that God wants my mind set on things above. This is going to happen multiple more times. Already has, where God says, time out We're talking about all this judgment, all this punishment, all the woe on earth. Time out. Look up here. Look up here. Look what's going on up here. Remember what's happening up here. I want you to remember that I'm still on the throne. I want you to remember I'm receiving the worship of multitudes. I want you to remember I am King of Kings and Lord of Lords. I want you to remember that all's well in the temple of God. It may be corrupt down here, but it's all clean up yonder. I want you to remember that I am still him who was and is and is to come. I want you to get your eyes back up here And it's as if we come to the conclusion of Revelation 11, we see the two witnesses, we see the unfolding of events on earth, and it's as if God says, But remember, what's going on up here is still good. I'm still God Now listen, I think we get an Old Testament picture of this in Daniel's life. Daniel's down here in Babylon. Daniel's reading Jeremiah. And Daniel begins to pray, oh God, send the people back. Time's up. Seventy years are fulfilled. Those 70 years are gone. And God, would you begin? And you know what God did? Here's Daniel. He's got his finger on the promise and his knees bent in prayer. And Zerubbabel comes up. Zerubbabel was that man who led that governor, who led that first group out. And he went under the stirrings of God. God had put it in his heart. And and as as they begin to make their way back to reclaim their rightful land, you've got an old man 90 years old down here in Babylon. He's got his finger on a promise, he's got his knee bent in prayer, he's got his lips lifted up a request to God. You see, in his world it didn't look that good. In his world it looked like the Jews had come to an end In his world, the enemy seemed a whole lot powerful, more powerful than God. In his world, it looked like darkness had swept in, but he had a promise and he made a prayer He had a promise and he made a prayer. He had this promise that the Lord was going to put the people back in the land. And he began to pray. And I don't know that it did his old heart good when he began to hear of a young man named Zerubabel who said, Let's go. Let's go rebuild. Let's go reclaim. Let's go back to that land. I'm here to tell you we're like Daniel living in Babylon. We're living down here. All we got's a promise and a prayer Oh, look, it looks pretty dark around here sometimes. It looks pretty discouraging and disheartening. We begin to think, Lord, is it ever going to end? Will there ever be a conclusion to all of this? We began to think, Lord, is it ho when will it ever be over? You hang on to the promise You keep on in prayer. You lay hold of what God says. You take your knees and bend them and call on the God who can do all things. Listen, my prayer is, even so, come quickly, Lord Jesus. And one of these glad days, he's going to part the eastern skies and call us home. What we've been longing for, he's going to come and fulfill. What we've been believing for so long, he's going to make come to pass. Hold on to the promise, keep on in prayer. Hold on to the promise, keep on in prayer. Child of God, the Lord's coming Jesus is going to come. And the devil is going to be defeated. Righteousness will rule, and Christ will reign forever and ever and ever. And thank God sin will be no more. You just say what to do till he comes. Lay hold of a promise. Live your life in prayer. Lay hold of the promise. Keep lifting your voice to God in prayer. Take this old Bible and believe what it says. Listen, the problem with a lot of people today is we put more stock in what some Intellectual giant has to say than what the omniscient God has already said. I'm gonna tell you something. If this Bible said Jonah swallowed a well, why it's impossible. Some of you ain't listening, you didn't hear that. If this Bible said Jonah The man swallowed the great fish. And the greatest fish I know to tell you about is a whale. Then I believe it on the authority of the book. But I can't figure that out. I can't reason it out. I don't have to. Can you reason Genesis 1-1? I mean really. I know some of you got your halos on, you polished them up before you come to church, and you know everything about all things, but I've got news for you. It's hard for me to figure that out. It's hard for me to figure out how the God of heaven come to this earth and became man. And that same man died on the cross and they put him in a tomb. And on the third day he got up. It's hard for me to reason that and fathom that. It's hard for me to understand how God took the stars and flung them though like Isaiah said, like a curtain. First thing I do when I get up in the morning is I open my curtains I don't like being confined at home. My wife's like, well just wait a little bit and then we'll open the curtains. No, but buddy, when I'm up, I want curtains and blinds, I want lights on, I want it to glow like a heavenly city. Right? I don't like being dark. But Jesus the Bible tells us, because he created all things, what our Bible says, that he flung the stars like a curtain You imagine that? I can't fathom that. But my Bible tells me. And my Bible tells me, in such an hour as ye think not, behold the Son of Man cometh. And my Bible tells me that the dead in Christ will rise first, then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together to meet the Lord in the air And so shall we ever be with the Lord. My Bible tells me that Jesus is coming, that where I am, there he may be also. He wants me to be where he is, and he's going to come back and get me and take me there. My Bible tells me those things. I don't have to bow I don't have to figure my intellect. I don't have to reason that thing. I don't have to wrap my understanding around it. I just have to bow my will to the truth of God's word and say, Lord, I believe Help my unbelief. I believe you said it. God, you declared it. And listen, Jesus tells us in his precious word that there'll come a day when he'll put all evil down. And one angel One angel is going to take the old devil and cast him in the lake of fire. And I say again, even so come quickly. Lord Jesus. Keep your finger on a promise. Keep your knee bent in prayer. Don't let the news of earth drown out the great truth of heaven. Don't let the rattling and the rumbling of what's happening down here So feel your ears that you don't hear what's going on up yonder. If we could get just a glimpse up there, shoo. We could see the worship. Our Lord on his throne. Isaiah was pretty impressed with Uzziah the king. That's what we take from what we're told in Isaiah. He was a good king, he was a great king, maybe one of the greatest. But yet when he died, Isaiah finally saw the real king. Oh, he'd always been there on the throne. He'd always been in charge. He'd always been ruling. Isaiah just got it, just saw it. Maybe some of us need to let the promises of God help us to see what's really so, so that we can rejoice with those that are already there praising his holy name. My precious friend, if you're not saved, you better get saved. And the news is tonight you can't save yourself, but Jesus can. And he died on the cross and paid your sin debt in full. And thank God he vindicated who he was when he rose from the grave and declared himself to be the Son of God with power. And he'll save every lost sinner who will come to him just like they are. You don't need to get on a program of getting straightened out. You just need to come to Christ like you are, broke, helpless, lost, and get saved. And he'll save you. And dear Christian friend, oh, may the Holy Spirit make this personal. Don't let the clatter and the chatter Drown out the good news. Jesus is coming. That same one who sits on the throne tonight is soon going to step over the battlements of heaven. Come up. Come up and we're gonna go up. I I I do not like the fly, you know that, I'm not gonna elaborate. That's one time I expect to be happy to go. Not gonna be no fear then. Gone. Be with the Lord. You going? Remember you are on the authority of this book. When them days feel like you're chained to this earth, Remember, God's getting ready to clip the chain. He's getting ready to take us home. May the Lord make this real in every heart. Stand with me, please. Father, help us. Help your people. He saved the lost.