I was thinking as a congregation you were singing saved, saved, saved. Um I can stand here the next 30 minutes and tell you burdens and heartaches and trials and troubles and things people are going through. And as I prayed through my list this morning, I thought, Lord, that's a world of care. That's a load of care. But you know, in spite of all of that, if you're saved, you're just saved. Um trials don't change that. And trouble don't alter that. And uh you're saved, and that's the greatest thing of all, really. Uh and if if you're not saved, I'd urge you to be saved and then you'll know what the saved are talking about. And so thank God for these sweet reminders here this morning. of God's goodness to us. Yes, there's trials and yes there's trouble, but I'm grateful for the salvation of our soul that is full and free and real. And uh it's not a figment of our imagination. Thank God we are saved by the grace of God. And I pray that's your case this morning. I want you to open your Bibles with me to Romans chapter 5 Romans chapter five. And I'm going to read beginning in verse number three down to verse number eight, but we're going to skip verses three to five and pick up and look at verse number six, seven, and eight here this morning. We'll look at verse three, four, and five tonight. We're trying to make our Sunday evenings all about practical Christianity for a little bit here. And there's something very practical in those portions we'll read. But the Lord helping me this morning, I want to preach on the mighty, indescribable love of God. Because that's the theme of this portion here, the love of God. If you'll stand with me, please, in Romans chapter 5, and I'll begin reading in verse number 3. The Bible says that not only so, but we glory in tribulations also. Knowing that tribulation worketh patience. And patience experience, and experience hope, and hope maketh not ashamed Because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. Now, there's your theme of this whole chapter, really: the love of God. Verse 6 says, For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Father, help us this morning. I confess, Lord, the burden of my heart is greater than the vocabulary in my mouth. And I pray that you would communicate, Lord, as you see fit, this great love to the heart of your people. And if there be a soul here lost, I pray that in mercy you'll open their eyes to see their need. I thank you, Lord, for your love. And I can't understand it all, I can't get my little head around it, but as sure I am grateful to know that you love me And Lord, I pray that you would just speak to our hearts and help us this morning, comfort your people, grow our faith, save the lost, draw home the backslidden in heart. And accomplish your will. Lord in mercy, bind the strong man and spoil his goods. For it's in Jesus' strong name we pray. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. The hymn writer said it best concerning the love of God. The love of God is greater far than tongue or pen can ever tell. It goes beyond the highest star and reaches to the lowest hell. The guilty pair bowed down with care. God gave his son to win. His erring child he reconciled and pardoned from his sin. When years of time shall pass away and earthly thrones and kingdoms fall, when men who here refuse to pray, on rocks and hills and mountains call. God's love so sure shall still endure, all measure less and strong, Redeeming grace to Adam's race, the saints and angels song. Could we with ink the ocean fill, and were the skies of parchment made, were every stalk on earth a quill, and every man ascribe by trade. To write the love of God above would drain the ocean dry, nor could the scroll contain the whole though stretched from sky to sky. And I want to say to you, that's not an exaggeration. If anything, that's just a scratching of the surface of the great love of God. It's an almost unfathomable thing. when we talk about the indescribable mighty love of God. As Paul describes it here in Romans chapter 5, he does not try to define the love of God because it's almost impossible. The old Scottish preachers used to say that some things are better felt than telled. And that's true There are things that you just can't put words to because it it goes beyond words. Who can with words describe a sunset? You just gotta see it. How can you uh take just mere words and talk about something so great? as the love of God. It's impossible. But God said, I'm going to do something so that you won't have to worry about a definition. I'm going to give you a demonstration so that you'll know how much I love you. Amen. I want you to think with me about what's said here in the Bible. Look at verse number six. For when we can I say that's all of us here? When the Bible says we, he includes us all. For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. I want you to see first the condition of man. And the Bible is very clear and pulls no punches. There's no flattery in the scripture. There's just plain truth. And the plain truth uh in the scriptures is that man is primarily two things. You see it there. Number one, he's weak, and number two, he's wicked. The word here, without strength, means he's strengthless. When we were without strength, you say, what does that mean? We had no strength to get to God. We had no ability in ourselves to go to him. I still remember Squire Parsons singing On a Sunday night in our home church, a little song he said the Lord gave him that week, when I could not go to where he was, he came to me. I'm glad there's a God who comes to me. When we were without strength, do you see that? That's the condition of every one of us. We are without strength. You can't pick yourself up by the bootstraps and drag yourself to God. You can't do it. I'm without strength. You're without strength. Go back here to John with me just a minute. You know, in the Lord's ministry, he illustrated a whole lot of spiritual truth in a practical way. And in John chapter 5. I want you to see something here. John chapter 5. And let me just start reading in verse 1. It says after this there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool, which is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having five porches. In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, a blind, halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water. Now look at that scene. Around this pool of water, this what was supposed to be a very beautiful scene, is a very tragic and sad-looking company. They're blind and the halt and the I mean people that are sick and some have been here a long time we're gonna hear. And you know what? They're all there accompanied, they're all there together, they're all gathered together. And they're waiting on something. Verse 4 says, An angel went down at a certain season into the pool and troubled the water. Now, wouldn't that have been something to see? The Bi and you say, now preacher, that that's probably a story. No, it's in the Bible. It really happened. God sent an angel down and that angel trouble, I don't know what he did. If he brought a great big stick from heaven or whatever, but he troubled that water and he stirred that water. And when that water began to move, look what it says that whosoever, get that word, whosoever Whosoever then first, after the troubling of the water, stepped in, was made whole of whatsoever disease he had. So whosoever, if you were blind and you stepped in that water, then all of a sudden your blindness was healed. If you were incapable of walking and you got into that water somehow, you were able to walk after you got out of that water. The miracle was that whosoever was healed of whatsoever disease they had. Now look at verse 5. And a certain man was there. Which had an infirmity thirty and eight years. When Jesus saw him lie and knew that he had been now a long time in that case, he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole? Now here's a man he's been, and my I my understanding is he's been laying there 38 years. He's been waiting 38 years to get in the water. He's been waiting for that long period of time to be healed of his inability to walk. He could not walk And look what it says. Verse 7 That impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man when the water's troubled. Now you talk about torture. Here lays a man who can't get there. There's a remedy just right right there. And all he can do is just He can't get his body over there. He's tried. He's laid there 38 years. And there's a lot of other people who are more able than him who get in the water first. Now watch this. He's in a dilemma of of uh of unimaginable situation here. And he said, I don't have a man, I have no man when the water is troubled to put me into the pool. But while I am coming. Can you see that man dragging himself? Maybe pulling on bloody stops as he's tried to crawl across that that that that way and get in that pool. He said, Another steppeth down before me. Look at verse 8. Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed and walk. And immediately the man was made whole and took up his bed and walked, and on the same day was the Sabbath. Here is a man who had no man, but thank God he had Jesus. And the Lord Jesus healed his body, so the man who could not get in the water, God made him whole and able to walk. Now, read on, I'm not going to do it this morning, but if you read on He's in the temple. And the Pharisees are mad because they saw him carrying his little bed head into the house. And they said, You're breaking the law. It's a Sabbath. You don't carry a bed on the Sabbath. And he said, Well, the one who told me that I was whole said, take your bed and walk. And they said, Who was he? And he said, I don't know who he was. But he's in the temple, and it tells me that this man was serious about what God had done for him. He was back at that place of devotion, and he was there in the temple, and Jesus comes And he says to him again, he says, Now I've healed you physically, I'm going to heal you spiritually now. And he revealed himself to this dear man, and I believe he got saved. I believe we're gonna see that old impotent man in heaven. I I think you're gonna you're you're gonna get introduced one day to that man. He said he may come up and say, Did you ever read John five? And you say, why yes, we we were sitting in church on April 26, 2026, and the preacher preached out of John chapter 5, well, I'm that man. Let me shake your hand. I'm here today because Jesus saved me. Folks, heaven's not a figment of our imagination. It's a reality of everybody who's saved. That's where we're all going if we're saved. But it was Jesus that come to the weak man. Here was a man who had no strength to get to the pool and get healed, so Jesus went to where he was. Now that's a picture of every one of us who were saved. You had no strength to give to God. If you sit here thinking that you had one finger involvement in your salvation, you better check up. If you think you had to help the Lord out a little bit, then my friend, I've got news for you, he didn't need it. And he don't need your help. He don't need my help. That's the beauty of salvation. It's God's work in us, undeserving of it as we are. We're weak. I mean, here's a man who couldn't walk, a man who was not able to make it to the water, but Jesus came by and said, Sir, I'm going to fix your problem And every one of you who are saved today can look back and you can say there was a moment that Jesus Christ came to me. He came where I was. It might have been on a church pew. It might have been in your house. It might have been down the road somewhere. It might have been on a job site. But Jesus Christ had to come to where you were and say to you in your deadness, in your sin, he said, live. And you began to live at that very moment. You might have been religious as anybody you could imagine You might have been ch Tim said it. You might have been in church, he came in this church his whole life. I mean for the I guess recognition put near his whole life And you might have sit on a pew and sung hymns and carried a Bible and done all sorts of things that look religious, and people might have said of you, Oh, what a good person. What a religious man. That must be a Christian woman. But it is not what people say that matters, it's what God knows that's important. It's not what you and I give off as the appearance of, you know. My my wife loves bears for some reason. And and every time we see a bear, if we were out in the wild, she sees a bear, she's like, he just looks so cuddly. I'm like, he's not. I I I want to pet that. Have you seen that viral video? I want to pet that dog. And it's a bear. Well she wants to pet that dog. She wants to pet that bear. Everywhere we go. We we were over at the zoo with little Jack and and uh they had a grizzly bear in there. Man, I I've never seen one out in the wild and uh I I was amazed at the teeth on them things and I'm sitting there thinking If he got a hold of you, he'd hurt. That would hurt. I mean, he could bite something off in just a one chomp, you know. My wife says, Don't he look sweet I said, it's a grizzly bear, honey. She said, I you wouldn't you just like to just rub him? I'm like, no, maybe shoot him, but not rub him. You know, that's the difference And you can have folks fooled and think that everything's good and fine. And I'm not trying to talk you out of something. I'm just trying to remind you today That salvation's not something you did, or it's not something you do. Salvation is the work of God. He comes to the weak. He says he died when we were without strength. It was Christ who died for us. Not only are we weak, but according to the scriptures, we're wicked. The Bible says we're ungodly here. For when we were yet without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. I know it's an offense to man to be told the truth at times about this, but the reality is without Christ we're all hopeless sinners. Jeremiah said, our hearts are deceitful. In Jeremiah 17 in verse 9, he said, they're deceitful and they're desperately wicked. An old preacher of yesterday said, We're monsters of iniquity. That's where we are without Christ. We're ungodly. And I remind you that when Jesus came, that was who he came for. In Matthew chapter 9, he said, I've not come for those that are whole. I I I I've come to call the sinners. It's the sinners I'm interested in. I don't know about you, but that makes this sinner glad. I'm grateful that he was interested in sinners. And I'm glad that he came for sinners. And the scripture says that the condition of man is that our hearts are wicked. Can I say this this morning? Until you see yourself like God sees you, you will not see Christ for who he is. I fear sometimes folk aren't lost before they try to get saved. It does no good to think that I'm okay and then just sort of pray a little half-hearted prayer. The reality is we must be absolutely convinced that we're lost and we need God. Now that's what the Holy Spirit does in our lives. When the Holy Spirit begins the work of conviction and begins to open our eyes, and you who are saved remember that glad day when the Holy Spirit of God came by and said, You're lost. He didn't talk to you about your religion, and he didn't talk to you about your church annity. He didn't talk to you about all the other things we cling to. He talked to you about your condition. You're lost. You're lost. I remember those words the Spirit of God pricked my heart with as an eight-year-old boy. I'm lost. It was the most startling thought that ever crossed my little mind. I am lost. I'm not going to heaven because mama. I'm not going to heaven because daddy. I was counting on that. And I'm not going to heaven because of my preacher and my church. I was counting on that too. But I realized that the only way I could go to heaven is if I had a relationship with Jesus Christ myself. And I was lost. And you talk about a terror that fills your heart when you realize I'm lost. And I remember sitting there on that pew and thinking, my uh Lord, I'm lost and and and and and and if I die like this, I'm going to go to hell. And I'll tell you something, I i I know it was the Spirit of God doing a work because I was so shy I wouldn't dare move in public or do anything. If I had to cough, I'd die first before coughing because I didn't want anybody to look my way But sitting there on that pew on the side of church, the left hand side of Trinity Baptist Church, I'll never forget God just so worked in my heart, I'm lost, I'm lost, I'm lost. And I got up and I made my way to the altar and asked the Lord to save me. And friend, it wasn't going to the altar that saved me. It was Jesus who met me there that saved me But I was lost. And I'll be honest with you. I had heard this the account in the Bible about God opening the earth and swallowing up Those men that opposed um Moses. And I honestly thought before I got to that, I I actually said, I remember walking, do remember this clearly, I said, Lord, don't take me to hell before I get to the altar. Because I had in my little mind that's where I had to go to get saved. And I remember that terror, that feel. Friend, have you been lost? Has God brought you to the place of seeing yourself as He sees you? As long as the man says, I'm okay, I'm fine. I'm I I I might be have some problems or have a few slip-ups or I mess up or I you know every once in a while I might uh do some little sin but but listen until you get lost you cannot get saved. Until you understand that you're weak and ungodly, that you're without strength, it was you that Christ died for. Oh, that is the condition of every man apart from Jesus Christ. We, for when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. God's love is displayed through the through his death and and the character of those for whom he died Now he tells us in the next verse, and I want you to see the contrast here, for scarcely for a righteous man will one die. And he goes on to tell us and compares himself, if you will, yet per adventure for a good man some would even dare to die. And he says, I want you to look at yourselves. Do you know what every man has? Every man has a save his own skin philosophy. We do. We're innately selfish. It's unnatural and uncommon for for man, as he says, for a righteous man, scarcely for a righteous man will one die. Brother Billy Kelly tells a story before he got saved. Him and his buddies were going to this place of ill repute, and they were going to start a fight. And they were all encouraging each other and they said, Billy, you're the biggest. You go in first. And he said, You hit that big guy driving the motorcycle. You hit him sitting there next to the door. He said, You hit him first, and we'll all jump in And Brother Billy said he went in there and he'd give a good whack at that fella, and and uh he fell down, he got back up, and all of his gang stood up around him. And they're looking at him. And they said, What's wrong with you, man? He said, Me. He said, We are here for some fun. And that man said, We? He said, you better look behind you. And he said when he turned around, every one of them turkeys had run off and left him. He said it was no longer we, it was just me. Boy, he said, I got the thumping of my life that night. You know something you and I need to understand that we are selfish by nature. And the scripture makes it quite clear here that we, listen, it was you and I that Christ died for. The Lord Jesus is different than us. There's nothing selfish about him. Man may be selfish. Man may say, look, I'm going to look after me. I'm looking after number one. But may I remind you that was not what Jesus did? Christ died for who? The ungodly. Christ died for sinners. The shepherd died for the sheep. That the Lord Jesus came and gave himself for you and me. He died because of no iniquity in himself. He died for your sin and my sin. Romans chapter 15 tells us that it was Christ, as he died for us, that he did that for you and me. It was not for himself, there was no pleasure, there was no profit There was nothing that could be attributed to him that he would die for us. He died for us because he loved us. An unselfish love. I want you to see that here. It might be that scarcely for a righteous man one will die, and yet for adventure a good man some would even dare to die. But it wasn't that kind of people Christ died for. Verse 8, but God commendeth his love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. God commendeth. I want you to think with me this morning about this great act of love. Paul says that the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given to us. But listen, when he goes to tell us what love looks like, he does not use words. He takes us to the cross. He does not give us a definition. He gives us a demonstration. He walks us back 2,000 years ago and says, look at this. Look what happened over here. I'm going to tell you something. The greatest lie the devil tells man is that God doesn't love him The greatest lie that the devil whispers in the ear of saved and unsaved alike is that God doesn't love you. And here's what he says. If he loved you, then why did this happen? And if he loved you, why are you going through this? And if he loved you, why did he allow that? My friend, the only answer you've got for this is to go back there and say, but if he didn't love me, why did he die? If he didn't love me, what's the cross about? But God commendeth his love toward us. Notice the direction toward us. In that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. What a demonstration of love by the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, for him, think about this, for him, it was a display of wrath. What did Jesus encounter on the cross? Jesus tasted death for every man. On the cross of Calvary, the Lord Jesus Christ, what his experience was, it was an experience of drinking the full wrath of God for the sins of the whole world. Here he is. He's taken the punishment. He's taken the place. He's receiving the chastisement of God. It's on him. The wrath of God is poured out on him. And all that sin deserved. And you think about this, all the sins of the whole world being placed upon the Lord Jesus Christ. And him taking all of that. The cross was a demonstration of God's wrath towards sin as far as his son was concerned. But when I look at the cross My experience of the cross is not seeing the wrath of God, but seeing the love of God. That it was there my pardon was secured. That it was there my payment for sin was made. It was there that that that now a child of hell could be made a child of heaven. Because the wrath of God has been spent on someone who could pay the penalty in full. The fires of God's wrath burned over him so that you and I could be free. That's love. Love is not just words we speak. Love is a Demonstration. It's an act. And the greatest act of love that we know anything about is when Jesus died for sinners. I want you to notice that this work of his death did something. He was doing something, in other words, when he died. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 5. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. I remember a man who got saved, and here's what he said. He said, I'll tell you, I'd like five minutes with that Roman soldier that killed Jesus. He wa he didn't know, you know, uh understand fully. But the the reality is is that it wasn't the Roman soldier that killed him. You go home and look in the mirror and you'll see what killed Jesus. Second Corinthians chapter five, verse eighteen says, And all things are of God. Who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation. What work was he doing on the cross? He was reconciling us to God. Colossians chapter 1 and verse 20 says, and having made peace, Through the blood of his cross, by him to reconcile all things unto himself, by him I say, whether they be things in earth or things in heaven. Listen, the work of the cross was a reconciling work. While on one hand the Lord was taking the wrath of God, the other hand was an extension of mercy from heaven so that sinners could be brought to the Lord. There was a reconciling going on. I want you to see this, friend. That's love. To suffer on the behalf of another, to be put to death for someone who should be dying there. Now, I don't know how true this is. Legend says that Barabbas got saved. There's all sorts of stories you hear historically, and I was reading something the other day, I believe it's Brother Pike. in his New Testament commentary, and he was talking about how the legend of the early church was that Barabbas got saved Barabbas looked at that man on the cross and said, That should be me. Barabbas said, I was the one slated to die today. I was on the death docket, and yet he died in my place. He took my place. Now here I am, a free man, because that man died. What must what kind of love must that man have for me if he would do such a thing? And can I say to every one of you sitting here this morning that the Lord Jesus died for you? The Lord Jesus died for your sin. He saw you in eternity to come, in the future to come, and he said, There's a soul for whom I must die. There's one who I must pay the sin debt for. And dear friend, he in love paid your sin debt and died. And in that experience, no wonder God turned the lights off. No wonder the earth uh was covered in darkness for a period of time. Why? Because there was a heavenly transaction going on. God Almighty was judging sin on his son. And that son was reconciling lost men unto himself. It was too holy a thing for filthy eyes to watch. And so God turned the lights out, and in that time period there was a great transaction taking place, and on the marketplace of sin, here was man. being sold to the highest bidder, and the devil was raising the stakes by the moment until Jesus said, I give myself. He laid the he paid the ultimate price. He said, I love him so much. I'll shed my blood. I'll give my life. Listen to me, dear friend. There was a great work of reconciliation going on when Christ died on the cross of Calvary. No wonder, let's never stop singing about the blood. Let's never be ashamed to say Jesus died for me. Let's never get so uh, you know, religious around here that we get uptight about the cross or we don't want to mention that Jesus died, or we sort of sort of try to sneak a little silly soft gospel up on men and women. The truth is, our sins demanded an awesome price. And Jesus Christ paid it in full. And he did it because he loves a bunch of sinners like you and me. Is that not a marvel? The wonder of wonders is that Jesus loved me. The hymn writer said, Jesus loves me, Jesus loves me. Jesus loves even me. I mean it's almost a not a question mark in in the sense but it's i of being a question but it's a question mark in the sense of astonishment He loves me. I mean, Lord, you you love me and all my sin and and and you might be sitting here and say, well, preacher, it's all right for you to say that that he loves you, but you don't know me, and I don't need to know you to know this, for God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Listen, dear brother, sister, dear friend, know today that he loves you, and listen, he loves you as much as he loves anybody else. Now look at that bird on the pew next to you. Look at him. If you don't have one on the pew with you, look at the one in front of you. Do you know the Lord loves that person? And by the way, that person that's looking at you, they're seeing somebody the Lord loved too. Isn't it a wonder? Jesus taught it like this. He said there were ninety and nine sheep ones lost. And you would think now in the in as far as economy goes, one is not as important as ninety-nine. 99 are more valuable than one. Ninety-nine, I mean economically, if you add it up, the price of sheep, ninety-nine are a whole lot more uh valuable than that one. And that one was out in the wilderness. That one was out yonder lost. That one was was likely a rebel, astray, a wanderer, one that you couldn't keep in, you know. Uh who somebody was talking about cows getting out and I was thinking, man, we used to have some cows and there's always this one, and and you couldn't keep her in with nothing. Barbed wire, electric fence. Trench. I mean you put a moat around the lot and she'd swim out. She just could get out. And she you know why? Because she wanted to get out Neighbor had called and said, hey you cows up here. And uh the boss would say, Is it is it eighty-five? She got a tag here that says eighty-five? Yep, eighty-five. Well you didn't even have to ask after a while, because you just knew You say, What happened to her? Well he didn't love her. She went to Hamburger. She went to Hamburger town. It it was a whole lot easier than chasing her every day and paying for flower gardens and Fixing driveways and cleaning up messes that she made. But there was one sheep. And being that it was lost, it likely was gonna die There's nothing it could do. There was no way it could save itself. It had a wandering heart. And yet, what'd the shepherd do? He left the 99. He went to the one. He said that one's important to me. I love that one as much as I love those ninety-nine. That one means something to me, and so I'm going to go. And do you know what that shepherd had to do? He had to lay down his life to go save that one sheep He had to give his life, and thank God he did on the cross when Jesus died for you and me. But then he rose again. And the Bible says that shepherd had to come back, and what did he come back with? He came back with that sheep And he had that sheep on his shoulders, and he was carrying him, and he said, Rejoice of me, I found my sheep that was lost. I'm here to tell you that's love, that's great love, that's unimaginable love. God's love for you is greater than my little language can describe. But when we look at the cross, couldn't we just go linger there a minute Could we not just go back and think for a moment what Jesus did there? He was reconciling wayward sinners, wanderers Those who were willful in their rebellion, those who chose sin over the Savior. He went and died for those he died for you and me there. He shed his blood so that we could be saved. And he said, I want you to know why I did it. I did it because I love you. That death of Christ made it possible for me to be saved. Why? He loves you. He loved me. Paul's talking about here in Romans 5, love being shed abroad in your heart. And just in case you're wondering what love is, he takes you to Calvary. He says, look here. Maybe it'd be good for us this morning who are saved to not hurry past Calvary. We sing about it at Calvary. We sing about it at the cross. We talk about it. We hear about it. We preach about it. We know what the Bible says about it. But maybe we ought to stop and ask the question, why Calvary? What's it all about? Why did God do this? Why? He commended his love. He put it on full display and said, I want you to see it all. I want you to see how much you mean to me. I want you to see how much I love you. I want you to see how how how how your soul is valuable to me. I want you to see that. And I'm going to die. I'm going Shed my blood, I'm gonna give my life I'm going to lay it down. I want you to see the awful demonstration of God's hatred for sin. And I want you to see that I'm going to do all of that just because I love you. I read the story of a man over in England, he and his wife were riding through this notorious forest where robbers would Stop people and rob them and take all the head and she was very fearful And as they came around this curb, there were three men who were standing there waiting, and they stopped, and and they ordered them to get down. They took everything and They started to get a little rough, and the man thought that they might harm his wife, and so he jumped in and he intervened and and in mercy spared her. But he took a fatal blow. And as those men fled the scene and left him in his own blood. He said to her, Did you see their faces? Did you see who it was? Is there anything you can tell? Make sure you you you'd be able to give a good description. She said, I could see only one. She said, That one who was giving his life for me I 'm gonna tell you something, Christian. The devil wants you to see a whole lot of stuff. And he wants you to see all of the attacks, and he wants you to see you all see all the aggravation and he wants you to see all all of the uh the the things that make hard it difficult and and hard to live for the Lord sometimes. He wants you to look at all that. But you know what the Lord says? Just look at that one face Just look at that one who died for you. Just look at the one who loved you with such a love that he would say, I'll take his place. I'll take her place. I 'll pay her sin debt. I'll pay his sin debt. I'll be the one who lays down my life. Just get your eyes on one. Hey, there is a love. That God has for you and me. And I I'm going to be honest with you, there's people I think that probably the greatest truth they'll comprehend is that Jesus loves me. They find that hard to believe Perhaps they feel they sh they should not be loved, or perhaps they feel like you're not worthy of that love. Perhaps we look at our lives and say, I don't deserve that love. Can I say to you, You'll never deserve it? We never were worthy of it. But he didn't come for just deserts. He didn't come because we're worthy, he came because he loved us. Love drew him out of heaven. Love brought him to this earth. Love put him on a cross. Love caused him to lay down his life. But thank God love raised him up again. On the third day, and he conquered the grave, and he lives eternally, and he loves you still, for he ever lives to make intercession for us Your love this morning. It's an indescribable mighty love. It's not this weak, powerless thing. Oh, it's a mighty love. It's love enough to make a sinner leave off of his sinning and go to the Savior. It's love that'll capture your heart. You know, I I do know I believe we need to be warned about hell. But I tell you something, I believe it's the great love of God that'll capture your affection and your allegiance. You ever get a hold of it? Or it gets a hold of you? He loves me. Me And he made a way for a wicked sinner to become a righteous saint by the death of himself. Wonder of wonders. It's a marvel that, my friend, we could talk about until eternity dawns and then throughout all of eternity and still not comprehend. How great a love the love of God is. If you're not saved today, I want you to know two things. Number one, He loves you. Number two, He'll save you. If you are saved today, I want you to know some things. He loves you too. And your salvation is a testimony to the great love of God. And if I could just say it like this, don't get over it. Don't get over it When we got married, my preacher gave me a book. I still got it back in my office, and I don't think they print it anymore, but it says how to keep the honey in the honeymoon. It's a good little thing. It probably needs to be printed again. And uh you know what? You and I need to keep the love of God in our hearts as Christians. Jude said, keeping yourselves in the love of God. That don't mean you make him love you. You can't do that. He loves you already. But if you keep yourself under the influence and guided by and understanding of He loves me, do you know even in His chastisements, He loves us? He loves us. You're love, dear Christian. The devil's a liar. The devil's a liar. He loves you. Your troubles and trials and tribulations are no expression of the absence of the love of God. In fact, we'll see tonight they're quite opposite. They're demonstrations of God's love because God's doing things we had no clue we needed done. He loves you, friend. And I would just, if you're struggling this morning with that truth Maybe your heart's a bit weary. It might be a good day to say, Lord, just help me to get back to the cross and look at what you did, why you did it. Just linger there a little bit and hear him cry. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? It is finished. See him suffering and dying, and then know that he did that because he loved me. And I got news for you if you'd been the only sinner Jesus Christ would still be the Savior. He'd have died for you. Because he loves you. Would you stand with me, please? If you need to pray, come on.