Take your Bibles, please, and go to the Revelation with me to chapter number sixteen. Revelation chapter number sixteen. I'll read the entire chapter. And you'll notice as we begin to read this chapter that he's going to be talking about seven vials or seven bowls. And we're going to study those this evening. But as you turn there, let me remind you that we have already studied two other groups of seven. So in chapters 6 through 8, we looked at the seven seals. You remember those, the seven seals, and as each seal was opened, a different judgment was poured out. And then beginning in about chapter 8, around verse 6, 7, we started looking at the seven trumpets. There were seven trumpets that were blown. And each trumpet brought an alarm and it brought also a new or fresh wave of judgment. So there are seven trumpets. Now we come to the seven vials. And I believe there's a correspondence between these seven, these three sevens, uh, but yet these are so unique in the sense that uh I believe we can group these seven right at the very end of the tribulation. We can put these seven vials, and by the way, those vowels Were shallow bowls that were used in temple worship. So as they would carry liquids and other things that were uh used for worship in the temple They would use these vials or like a little shallow bowl. The Bible says that there are seven of these that are going to be poured out. So let's look at that in Revelation 16, beginning in verse number one. And I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven angels, Go your ways and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth. And the first went and poured out his vial upon the earth, and there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men which had the mark of the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image. And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea, and it became as the blood of a dead man, and every living soul died in the sea. And the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and fountains of waters, and they became blood. And I heard the angel of the waters say , Thou art righteous, O Lord, which art, and wast, and shall be. Because thou hast judged thus. For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink, for they are worthy. And I heard another out of the altar say, Even so, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous are thy judgments. The fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun, and power was given unto him to scorch men with fire, and men were scorched with great heat. And blaspheme the name of God, which hath power over these plagues, and they repented not to give him glory. The fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seed of the beast, and his kingdom was full of darkness, and they gnawed their tongues for pain. And blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, and repented not of their deeds. And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates, and the water thereof was dried up. That the way of the kings of the east might be prepared. And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon, out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet. For they are the spirits of devils, work in miracles, which goeth forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty. Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he that watcheth and keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked and they see his shame. And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon. And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air. And there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven from the throne, saying, It is done. And there were voices and thunders and lightnings and There was a great earthquake such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake and so great. The great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell And Great Babylon came in remembrance before God to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath, and every island fled away, and the mountains were not found. And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven, every stone about the weight of the talent, and men blaspheme God because of the plague of the hail, for the plague thereof was exceeding great. I do believe that what I've just read will take place during the last part of the tribulation. The very last of the tribulation time. And I believe that what we've read will happen in a very literal sense. And I pray the Lord would speak to us as we study tonight. Let's pray and we'll begin. Our Father, we come in Jesus' name and thank you for the privilege that we have to gather. We thank you for your loving kindness and your tender mercy. We thank you for your goodness. Lord, we thank you that we have this privilege to open our Bibles together and to study, thus saith the Lord. Oh Father, we're asking that you in mercy would do the work that's needed in our hearts. Would you open the eyes of our understanding that we might see as we ought? And dear Lord, would you teach us something that will help us? I pray for those who are saved that the Spirit of God would speak to us in such a way That we might get the help that we need. Dear Lord, I pray for the lost that you'd speak to them, that they might see that Jesus is the only way. And Lord, I pray that you would strengthen our hearts and fix our eyes on Jesus. And Lord, we'll thank you for what you do, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said Amen. I want you to notice in verse number one the commanding of these vials. Notice what he says here, and I heard a great voice. Out of the temple saying of the seven angels, Go your ways and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth. I want you to notice that the commanding comes from the Lord, and he says, I want you to take these little bowls of wrath and I want you to pour them out. And the idea here is that they're going to be poured out in swift succession. So he's going to pour out one vial, then he's going to pour out another vial, he's going to pour out another vial, and he's going to do this very swiftly and very quickly. Vial number one, would you notice with me in verse number two? The Bible tells us he's going to send a disfiguring sword. The Bible says, And the first went and poured out his vial upon the earth, and there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men. which had the mark of the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image. Now these warnings, by the way, remember we've had multiple warnings through the revelation. He's warned men on earth. He's warned men of the coming judgment. He's warned them not to take the mark. He's warned them not to worship the image. And now, after the warning comes the wave of wrath. And it's going to be a wave of wrath that man cannot stop. You know, this wave of wrath that's going to be unleashed is going to be something that cannot be controlled on this earth. Now, man thinks he can control everything. We think somehow or another we've got our hand on the throttle of what's happening in the world that we can change climate, we can turn things around. But I've got news for you. We cannot change what God sets in motion. And when God begins to pour out these bowls or vials of wrath, it's not going to be stoppable. You can't put up a shield big enough or strong enough to stop the wrath of God that's going to be poured out upon this earth. These disfiguring sores are going to cover the bodies of these who have taken the beast's mark and who have worshipped his image. The Bible says it's going to be a grievous sore. Can you imagine? When you read about Job, and the Bible talks about his body being covered in boils from head to foot. And the pain that he was in. And those were not those were not boils of judgment. They were boils of God's testing. And they came wrapped in a cloth of mercy from the hand of a good God. But these are entirely different. These are going to be sores of wrath. These are going to be God's wrath being poured out. on mankind. Now look, people can laugh and make fun and mock God all they want to, but there is coming a day they will find out that there is a real God in heaven And that wrath is real and hell is real and that rejecting him is going to have real consequences. Hmm. Sad. Here's vial number two. It's found in verse 3. The second angel poured out his vial upon the sea, and it became as the blood of a dead man, and every living soul died in the sea. So we have a disfiguring sword. Now we have death in the sea. The sea is the recipient of this bowl of wrath. And suddenly, can you imagine the globe encircled in blood? Notice he notes it as the blood of the dead man, that lifeless blood, that beginning to coagulate blood. He's talking about a very gross and a very sensit you say, preacher, that's figurative. Well, beloved, I do still believe that if it makes literal sense, then take it in that. And I do believe that he's going to do this, and the earth is going to be the the waters of the earth, the sea, are going to turn to blood as this vial is poured out. Look at vial number three. It's found in verse four. And the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and fountains of waters, and they became blood. I want you to notice the destruction of streams. We have the disfiguring sword. And by the way, this is all going to happen rapid. I believe these vials are going to be poured out rapidly. There's going to be this wrath of God, this wrath of God, much like it was when Israel came out of Egypt When God began to judge Egypt, it was one judgment after the other judgment after the other judgment after the other, and you could not stop it. It was a train that you could not stop on its tracks. So the streams are going to be destroyed. The waters are going to be turned to blood. There's not going to be a fresh water source on the earth. Now folks, you stop and think a minute about how tragic it would be to have no water I mean, there's no water to pump out of the wells, there's no water to find in the streams, it's all been turned to blood. That's what he says. He's going to turn it all to blood. It's going to be undrinkable. It's not going to be something that can sustain life. It's going to be a flowing death. That's going to uh immerse and come around men and women in such a way that they realize that the God of heaven is angry. And by the way, they acknowledge that these are coming from the Lord. We'll see that in a moment. But they acknowledge that these are coming from God, but in defiance they refuse to repent. Then we come to a pause in the middle of this, and there's a declaration that's stated. I want you to look in verse number 5. He said, I heard the angel of the waters. This is the angel who poured that vial or bowl, poured it out on the waters. Here's what he said: Thou art righteous, O Lord. Which art and wast and shalt be, because thou hast judged us. For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink, for they are worthy. Can I say that there is a principle being emphasized here? You reap what you sow? Man wanted bloodshed, and and by the way, just like it was in the days of Noah, those violent and those bloodshed in times. We're quickly moving back in that direction. And during the last part of that tribulation, uh blood is going to flow, man is going to kill man. There's going to be a a a constant death on every corner. But the reality is man is going to be drunk on violence, and God's going to give him what he's been sowing. He's going to give him in the reaping of what he's been sowing You do reap what you sow. That prep principle is going to be emphasized in telling you we're a bloody people. This nation is a tragically bloody people. Death is so common and lives are robbed so easily and so quickly. We've done it in the in the realm of what we call medical practice by the abortion of unborn babies And little ch little lives are taken in blood. Innocent blood is shed. And I do believe it's crying out to the ears of our Father. And not only is that taking place, but there's the killing and shedding of blood across the land. And I'll remind you again that God emphasizes the principle here And he says you wanted blood, you're going to get it. I'll encircle the globe with it, and I'll fill all your fresh waters with it. But not only was there a principle emphasized here, but there was a place that's personified. And we find here in verse number seven, he said, I heard another out of the altar say. And it's as if God gives his altar a voice. And that altar says, even so, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous are thy judgments Now, I believe because we see it earlier in Revelation, we see it in Revelation 6. 9, that the souls of the martyred are crying out from under the altar They're taking refuge under that altar. What is that altar? That's the brazen altar of judgment. And under the brazen altar of judgment comes a voice. And that voice simply speaks, and what it does is shout a loud amen to the judgments of God. God, you're right in what you're doing. God, we again look at it. We say that you're true and righteous are thy judgments. You know man's cry today is, God, you're not fair. Beloved, hear me tonight. God is the fairest of all. God is so fair. In fact, He's beyond fair. He is merciful, kind, and good. And when man gets to the point where that merciful kindness, goodness is no more, then the judgment of God will begin, but it will not begin a moment too late or a moment too soon. It will be right on God's time. And everyone will have to bow their head and say, amen. God, you're true. You're righteous. Your judgments are appropriate. They're just what man deserved. We can't find fault in God's dealings. Even the dealings we cannot understand. We have to say that his judgments are true and righteous altogether. And then we move on and we come to vial number four, and that's found in verses eight and nine, and that is the devastating scorching that takes place. There's a devastating scorching. Now look at this. They're disfiguring soars. There's death in the sea. There's a destruction of the streams. And now this devastating scorching. Verse 8 says, Then that fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun, and power was given unto him to scorch men with fire. Look at this. Men were scorched with great heat. I don't think we can really fathom the power that's going to be unleashed when God scorches men with heat. You know, we know something about heat around here. This is one of the places of the world that gets warm. And sometimes it gets almost unbearably warm. Can you imagine when God's wrath is joined up with the heat of the sun? And God scorches men with heat. That's a terrifying thing, really, to think about. They talk about the ability of the sun if we were to move a certain degree one way or the other and get closer to the power of the sun itself now. To destroy us on this earth. There will be no cooling centers that will hide you from this seat. This is judgment heat. This is a scorching that's going to come from God upon the rip rebellious man that has aligned himself with Satan and said, I'm not going to bow the knee. Oh, you hear me, dear friend. There's consequences to not bow in the knee. There are consequences that are eternal in nature to not bow in the knee. Man may say, I'll rise in rebellion. I'll be the master of my own fate. But that is a ship you can't sail. God alone sails that. Understand tonight that there's going to be a devastating scorching. And then notice this is the first instance of the depravity of man being revealed. And look what it says that when they put when this this Fifth vowel was poured out. Or excuse me, this fourth vowel was poured out. In verse number nine, they blasphemed the name of God. Listen to this, which hath power over these plagues, and they repented not to give him glory. Do you know what that tells me? That tells me that God is still giving man an opportunity to repent, but he won't. He's still giving men an opportunity to turn to himself. But they acknowledge, you notice that, they acknowledge this plague came from God. Gone is the idiotic idea that God don't exist. Gone is the foolish notion that there is no God That the universe is in charge. That there are powers that that operate much to their own uh ability and in their own realm. that we uh know nothing of or can know nothing of. It's unpersonal. No, all of that's gone now. We have come to the place that time and again God has proven I'm here, I'm real, I'm alive, and men know it, and they say, God, you're sending these plagues, but we will not bend our knees. That's the condition of a wicked lost man's heart. Our hearts are depraved and dark beyond description. There is no denial of God in the tribulation. Atheism will face a death at some point in that period. Some of the great thinkers of our day are atheistic in notion. They'll be fools considered fools in the tribulation. Because there's no atheism in the tribulation. In the tribulation, they say we know he's God, but we're getting ready to do battle with him. There's a defiance that begins, and by the way, that defiance has its roots down in hell itself. Because it is the devil that is stirring that thing, that rebellion. In the Garden of Eden, when man fell, the seeds of rebellion were planted in the hearts of man. And man has been a rebel ever since until he gets regenerated. And when he gets regenerated, the rebellion is gone and submission enters, and the heart of man says, Oh God, you're my master and king. And I'm here to tell you that every man, woman, boy, girl, teenager, young adult, I don't care how old you are or who you are, every single one will one day bow the knee to him and confess that he is Lord to the glory of God the Father. It's going to happen, dear friend. It will be clear. In this time of period, I think we're quickly running towards the end. This fourth vile man is going to recognize God is judging us, God is judging us, and rather than humbling themselves and repenting, They're lifting their fists, they're crying out in their voices, blaspheming the God of heaven and saying, We will not repent. And then vial 5 comes. Verse number 10: the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seat of the beast or the place of his authority. And his kingdom was full of darkness. Does that sound like something? Sounds a lot like to me what God did to Pharaoh down in Egypt. They had light in the dwellings of the Israelites, and they had midnight black darkness in Egypt, where the Pharaoh was. You'll notice here it goes on to say this. In verse number ten, that fifth angel, as he poured out his vial upon the seat of the beast, and his kingdom was full of darkness, and they gnawed their tongues for pain. With this swift spreading darkness comes this mysterious pain that will make men want to chew his tongue. He's going to be suffering, and so and the emphasis here is that men will suffer. They're suffering. Friend, listen, the devil is a dirty, rotten liar. The devil promises you a bill of goods. Follow me, you'll have the time of your life. Follow me, and oh listen, you'll have a big time, nothing will go wrong, but I've got news for you. There is a suffering you don't know about that lies ahead for those that follow him. Oh dear friend, listen, the devil offers fun and it often ends in fatality. I hated to see graduation come round in our little town up north because I knew eventually somebody was going to die that weekend, and usually it would be some promising young person Who would drink himself into a stupor, fall over in a yard somewhere, and choke to death on his own vomit, and all in the name of just having fun And open his eyes in hell. The devil's a liar. You hear this preacher. You may hate me, and that's fine. I love you. You may not like what I'm telling you, but you hear me tonight. The devil is a liar, and he's out to damn your soul and destroy your life. And he wants to do it before you ever get started. He wants to destroy your life before you ever start living it. Listen, dear friend, he is going l th this time of suffering is going to be uh unexplainable. We cannot describe what's going to happen, and yet look what man does. I marvel at this. Verse 11. He blasted the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, and repented not of their deeds. The very God who's sending it, they begin to blaspheme. I don't know about you, but Revelation has shown me the depths of depraved man's heart. When a man's dead in his trespasses and sin, his heart is such a wicked place. Let me say a word to us, dear brother, sister. We may have a new nature in Christ, but we still have a deceitful, desperately wicked heart. That's what Jeremiah said. You see these men, they're suffering, these women, these people, they're suffering, and they're going through great agony. And rather than bowing saying, God have mercy. And I li I believe this, and and I don't know what this does to your theology or or your framework, but I do believe this, that in any age where a man says, God have mercy, there's mercy to be had If a man would stop for a moment and say, God, would you have mercy on me? Would you just show me mercy? I believe our God is such a God because of what happened back yonder on Calvary when he poured out the wrath of God on Jesus. That he made a way for mercy to be given, no matter who you are or where you're at, but they do not cry for mercy. They blaspheme God, they curse his name They defy him, and they and they defy him in the very sufferings they acknowledge are coming from him. And then vial 6. You come to verse number 12. And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates. And the water thereof was dried up that the way of the kings of the east might be prepared. This is that dried stream, and then we'll see the devil's spirits. This vial will dry a stream and unleash the devil's spirits. And notice this, he said, I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon out of the mouth of the beasts, out of the mouth of the false prophet. For they are the spirits of devils working miracles which go forth unto the kings of the earth and the whole world to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty. Now watch this, behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he that watcheth and keepeth his garments lest he walk naked and they see his shame. And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon. Here, when this vial is poured out, there's a preparation for the final war. This is the vial of preparation. You say, what's he doing? He's preparing a road. He's making a road. You know, who who was I listening to this morning talking about um Babylon being taken I know it wasn't here, I can't remember, but I was listening to a preacher this morning, Brother Stanley Adcock in in Brevard. I was listening to him talk about that uh that uh when the when Babylon was was conquered by the Medo Persian Empire, that they stopped the waters that ran through Babylon, stopped the river And they marched under the walls of the city on that dry riverbed. And while they're in there having their drunken party, they came in and they conquered and they took over, just like God said they would But here is the drying up of a great river, the river Euphrates. And I believe this is a literal thing. I believe this road will be prepared, and then the rebellion will be ensured because the kings of the East will rise up. This confederation of peoples will rise up and begin their march towards Jerusalem. What's happening? There's a battle being prepared. There's a recruiting that's taking place. You know what they're doing? They're getting together an army. It says in verse 14, that to do battle of that great day of God Almighty And by the way, he uses the devil's regents and these spirits, these three spirits that come out of the mouth, they go out in and they begin to entice and say, come, let's do battle. Folks, do you realize that everything that's going on in the world has a spiritual connotation behind it? There is a spiritual battle. We're not just looking at right and left. We're not just looking at this party and that party. We're seeing a very real spiritual battle that is mounting and moving. And where are we going? Here's where we're going. The devil's trying to recruit a whole army to who will stand in that last day and do battle with God. That's where we're going. That's why the name of Christ is becoming increasingly hated in our society. That's why being a Christian isn't cool or popular or anything like that. If you've got that notion in your head, you better get it out just as quick as it got in there Because the reality is it's soon going to cost to be a Christian. We're living in a day where the things of God are ri ridiculed, reviled, they're hated And understand that we're going that way. That's where this world's going. The battle is being prepared and the recruitment has already started. But in this period , These spirits are going to flood the land and they're going to go out and say, Come, let's go do battle. And you'll notice they'll go forth unto the kings of the earth. And of the whole world. You know, I find that interesting that it goes forth of the kings of the earth. It appears to me that in the tribulation period there's going to be feudal lords ruling and little pockets of power and the devil's going to say, come get behind me. And let's all go over to Meghetto. Because there's somebody we're going to meet there. And if enough of us show, we'll have power to take him down. So foolish is the notion of man encouraged by the lies of the devil. The devil told Adam and Eve they'd be gods. And look what, look what come of that. Oh dear friend, as this dried stream and the devil's spirits fled the land There's a region that is specified, and you'll notice they said we're going to gather in a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon, the Valley Meghetto. There's a a a place. And I believe with all of my heart that's going to be the place of the final battle. I believe it's a literal, a visible, a visitable place where that battle is going to ensue. And that that day's coming, church. That day's coming. We're quickly moving towards that direction. There's preparation for this final war. And then notice this: vial number seven is poured out. Notice it's not upon the earth. Verse 17 says, When the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air, there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven from the throne, saying, It is done. Have you noticed that each of these judgments end with a temple scene? We ended the the the uh trumpet judgments with a temple scene. We ended the seals, the seven seals with the temple scene, and now here we are at the end of this vial and the seventh vial, and we're back at the temple again. The devil has his headquarters, but so does the Lord. And out of the headquarters comes this issuance, it is done. And notice this. This seventh vowal speaks of a decimated site. In other words, he destroys the great city, Babylon. Now I've heard a whole lot of fanciful talking about who Babylon is and where it is. I've heard people say it's America. I've heard other people say it's the revived Roman Empire. I believe, and I'm just going to state what I believe because I think it fits in the context and interpretation of Scripture, that it will be a literal rebuilt city that will be the power center of the man of sin. That he's going to build it, he's going to resurrect it, he's going to revive it, he's going to reconstruct it, and it's going to be the greatest, biggest, most beautiful city in all the earth, and the devil himself is going to say, I'm going to rule right here By the way, it's going to be an anti-type of Jerusalem where God's going to rule. I believe that. And you say, Preacher, I don't believe that. Well, I'm not going to split hairs with you. But I do believe that's going to happen. And you'll notice this that that all of heaven, all the natural forces begin to marshal together under the command of King Jesus and begin to pour out wrath on this city. Now it's going to be a terrible thing to be found in a place where you're fighting God. The God who makes the wind blow. The God who makes the lightning strike. The God who makes the thunder roll Can you imagine? Look what it says here in these verses. He said, There were voices, thunders, lightnings, and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake so great. So this storm, if you will, is going to be unleashed, and it's going to its epicenter is going to be on this place called Babylon. And it says in verse 19, the great city was divided into three parts. That city is divided. There's such a rift in the earth, such a tearing apart of the uh of the plates of the earth that it's going to tear this city into three sections. And then you'll notice it says that the nations, the cities of the nations fail. God's going to shake her until she's nothing but rubble. And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found. And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven. Every stone about the weight of a talent and watch this again, this is almost incredible to imagine. As if the thunder, the lightning, the earthquake's not bad enough. Now hell comes. And when that hell falls out of heaven, it's going to be enormous in size. And and and it's going to kill men, it's it's going to bring death upon the planet. And watch this, what does man do? Blaspheme God because of the plague of the hell. For the plague thereof was exceeding great. Now I said all of that to say this. Dear friend, three times man's lifted his fist in defiance. He's hardened his heart. I will not have this man rule over me. He will not tell me what to do. He will not be my king and master. Three times he's issued this statement of blasphemy and defied God. And now God is going to let man go the way he's chosen. He's going to let man be just what he's chosen. Go over here to Revelation 22. I'm getting ahead of myself, but I need to say this. Revelation chapter 22 and verse 11. Notice what it says. Hear these words, please. He that is unjust, let him be unjust still. And he which is filthy, let him be filthy still, and he that is righteous, let him be righteous still, and he that is holy, let him be holy still, and behold, I come quickly. Listen to me, what you are will soon be set in stone. What you are will soon be fixed as the concrete you walk on. Well you are. You say preacher I I I'm I'm just you know doing my thing I'm gonna go my way. You're hardening your heart. Pharaoh hardened his heart and then God just went ahead and hardened it for him. There comes a place where God says, Man, you have your way. I'm going to let you go your way, but your way has consequences You can make your own choices. You can good do you you can go your path, but hear me well, that path has a conclusion. It has an ending. It has a place where you're going to see that it would have paid to make your heart tender. Let me just say this tonight. Friend, if you're in the habit of hardening your heart, please hear this preacher. Stop doing it. Stop hardening your heart. There's going to come a time when what you've done will be set in stone. If you've ever worked with concrete, you know you've got a window to work with it. And when that window's up, I was working with some um, what do they call that? Hydraulic cement. I was working with some hydraulic seamen and I briefly read the instructions because you know I'm a man and we don't do that sort of thing. So I I after after I ruined the hotel of it, I realized It says, I think you got five, ten minutes, and uh, you know, don't mix up more than you can use in that time period. I had me a big old pail of it. And uh you know what I've got? I've got a big old nice rock of it sitting at the house. Still. You know what it had? It hardened. And after it was hardened, you couldn't move it no more. Before that it was pliable, you could put it into the place I was trying to fix, you could put it into the uh cracks in the brick, you could fix whatever. It it was pliable, it was movable, but there came a point where you could not move it anymore. It got hard And there are people that maybe listen to this preacher tonight, and you're hardening your heart, and it's getting harder and harder and harder, and there's going to come a place where it will not be reachable. You'll be like these people and maybe even among them and be blaspheming the name of God and standing in defiance to do war. And those dear individuals are going to open their eyes after the Battle of Armageddon, and they're going to realize it was too late. They're in hell. They're lost forever. They're lost forever. Listen, dear friend, your soul's nothing to play with. Your soul is nothing to play with. God communicates through the heart of man God deals with us through our hearts, and we might hard them and we might stiffen them and we might say He'll not rule over me, but we'll live to regret the day that we ever made that determination. You may go down a path of stiff-heartedness and hard-heartedness, but you'll come to a place where God will crush you under his wrath. I'm not saying that with any joy in my heart I'd rather preach a thousand different things than what I'm preaching right now. But I would not be faithful to the God who called me if I didn't sound the alarm. Don't harden your heart. Don't harden your heart. Judgment is coming. And when judgment begins, there's no turning back. It's like that place when you're taking off on an airplane. They say there's a point of no return. That if she flies, she flies. If she don't, she don't, you're not stopping her or going back. And when the wrath of God begins to be poured out on man, there is no turning back. There is no going back. There is no getting away from this. Please hear me tonight, friend. If you're not saved, you're just one day closer to hell now. If you're not saved, you're one moment closer to the wrath of God. If you're not saved, you're living. There's a slender, slender peace that's keeping you from the flames. It's as slender as the spider's web itself. It's not a very a very big thing. It's a fragile thing. You're one breath from eternity. One breath. We're one heartbeat from being forever where we're going to be forever. We're just one heartbeat. We're one breath. We're just one step from eternity And if you're not saved, my friend, you're playing a deadly game with something precious. So precious Jesus died for it. So precious he shed his blood to make you clean. So precious that he would save you in a moment of time if you would turn and come to Jesus Christ. Oh dear friend, hear me tonight. Don't harden your heart. Pharaoh hardened his heart and he was drowned and ended up in hell. And these we just read about who defied God and blasphemed his name stood in the valley of Meghetto, and they heard the judgment of God come as a voice, and when he speaks the blood flows, and they're dead, and it's done. And there in eternity. What are you tonight? I mean, really, let's get honest I'm not talking about are you a Baptist? I'm not talking about are you a member of this church or some other church? What are you tonight? Are you a saved soul? Are you Christian going to heaven? Have your sins been washed in the blood of Christ? You've been forgiven. You know it beyond a shadow of doubt. And is there any evidence that that took place? You'll never convince me that it's in the Word of God that somebody as big as Jesus moves in and it not make a difference. If my sweet mother-in-law decides to come live with me, it's going to change everything in our house. It's going to make a difference. Yes, it will. Remember when your first child was born? Changed, didn't it? Life was never the same. Never. Everything changed. I mean new residents come in the house. I mean that you did did you you ever think about this? When them little rascals were born, your whole schedule revolves around them Sleeping, eating, resting, that's life. And that's gonna be your life for the rest of your life. Amen I mean, it's just going to revolve. And praise the Lord for them. But here's what I'm trying to say is that if a the entrance of a human being is going to change everything. If the king of heaven moves in your soul and saves you, don't tell me there's going to be no evidence and life will go on like it was. I'll tell you what he'll do. He'll start a renovation project. He'll start changing things and cleaning things and throwing out things and putting in new things and he'll start making you a new creature in Jesus Christ. And if you're not a new creature, you've never been converted. If you don't have any new life inside of you, you're lost. I don't care what you claim or what I claim or anybody else claims, there is no salvation if there is no change. But beloved, when you get saved, you get changed. And he makes you brand new. You don't have to go get forced into it. You don't have to get brainwashed to do it. You're just changed on the inside out. He makes you what you were not when he converted you to Christ. You can't help but be what you are. You're a Christian. Now look, there are some words I use I can't help, they're just somewhere down deep in me. They're a part of who I am. And and I've tried to change them and I've done so uh many a time and probably shouldn't have, but nevertheless I I've done them and and and you know what? I've come to realize I just am who I am And you can't change who you are. But there's a God in heaven who will change you, and when He changes you, you can't help but be changed He's made you brand new. You want to read your Bible, you want to go to church, you want to pray, you love the Lord. It's not forced on you. You don't have to get your arm twisted You've got something inside of you, something that's apart from you, something that God gave to you, something that makes you different. And beloved, when he does that, it makes all the difference in the world. We got too many sitting in the church house that all they got's church anity. They don't have true Christianity. They know what, they know the rhythms and the routines. They just learnt the song and dance, so to speak. You can train an animal to do what most Christians do and live like most Christians live. And some animals you can train better. Some of them are smarter. But when Jesus Christ moves in , you just can't help but be a new creature. He starts taking down them old boards and throwing them out the window. He starts putting new things in their place Making you brand new. Are you new? If you're not, you're lost. And my precious friend, I'd be a fool to stand here and tell you anything else. Hell awaits you. And the only thing that keeps you out of hell is Jesus Christ and his shed blood. There is the roadblock on the road to hell. He built it some 2,000 years ago. It's called the cross. It's there. He suffered. He bled and he died. He paid the debt. My dear friend, if you'll come to him, he'll save you. He'll take you like you are. Say, preacher, I'm a low-down rotten sinner. That's the kind he's looking for. That's who he's looking for. He'll take you in and make you his own. But old friend, be careful what you're doing with your soul. Don't harden your heart. You may find yourself in this number, unable to turn, unprepared for eternity. Oh. May God help us to see it. Because He's the only one making us real. To your heart and mine. The unjust, they'll mark they'll cross the line. They'll be unjust still But dead in trespasses in sin, cross the line. They'll be dead in trespasses in sin for all of eternity. But old dear friend, doesn't that make Jesus precious to you who are converted? I've got a hope tonight. It's not in anything I've done. I've been preaching since I was 16 years old. And by the good grace of God, He's been merciful to me. I told the Lord when he called me to preach, I said, Lord, if you call me to preach, I don't want to rust out somewhere. Lord, if you want to wear me out, that's all right, but I don't want to rust out. I don't want to sit like I've watched preachers my whole life, pews full of preachers sitting like buzzards on a perch waiting on the preacher to die to get a good job I said, Lord, I want to preach. Let me preach. And God let me do that, beginning in campgrounds and on the side of the road and street corners. Then in little churches through the mountains and and God gave me the gift and privilege to be able to pastor a local church. And God knows that None of that means anything so far as my eternity is concerned and my soul's salvation. None of it. All my righteousnesses are as filthy rags in the eyes of the Lord. My dear friend, there's not a thing as far as goodness or works or anything else you can do to get to heaven. Jesus paid it all. My hope tonight is in the person, that man Christ Jesus, and Him alone. And what a hope it is. The more I learn about it, the bigger it gets. It's like trying to swallow the Atlantic Ocean. Or you can't even get hardly a portion of it in your mouth, let alone get it down. You can't, we can't fathom how great A Savior, Jesus Christ is. When I read things like I've read tonight in Revelation 16, it makes my heart humbled in the fact that God had mercy and saved my soul. And that these judgments, listen, no fire will ever be felt On this body. No fire in this old soul will ever burn except the one Jesus put there when he saved me. I'm hell-proof tonight, and I'm not saying that braggingly. I'm saying it to the glory of God because of Jesus Christ and what he did on the cross. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but I wholly lean on Jesus' name. On Christ a solid rock I stand. All of the ground is sinking sand. Are you on that ground tonight? If you are, boy ought to be precious to you. You ought to love him like you've never loved him before. Because the only thing standing between you and this is him. Him. That's all. That's all. But thank God it's enough. It's enough. Would you stand with me please? I want our pianists to come quickly and just start playing as soon as you come.