That ought to give us hope this morning. Had a preacher tell me one time, he said, don't worry, he said, God used a rooster and a donkey, and he said you fit somewhere between the two. So the Lord can use anything. Amen? Would you take your Bible please and turn to Second Timothy chapter three? I want to read two verses in your hearing, verse 15 and 16. When you find it, please stand with me as we honor the reading of God's Word. 2 Timothy 3, 15 and 16. Again, our Bible says this And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. I'm going to be reading in a moment out of Ephesians. We'll go over there and spend the bulk of our time. But I want to remind you concerning the Bible that we have a perfect blueprint. I'm going to be talking this morning or preaching this morning on what the Bible says about the church. Now we don't have a perfect example of the church on this earth. Never have and never will. But we do have a perfect blueprint of what the church ought to be. And may the Lord help us to see that. Father, we bow now in Jesus' name again, praying that you'll undertake and help, Lord, as we open your word. Father, would you please open our hearts to the Word of God? And then, Lord, we know the things of this book are spiritually discerned, and so may the Spirit of God open the things of this book to us. And be our teacher here today. Lord, please hide me behind the cross. Help me to lift up Jesus and may your will be done. And we'll give you the glory for all that you do. For our eyes are on thee, Lord. We all understand what we need has got to come from heaven. And so, Lord, we trust you for that. We love you and praise you and thank you for another opportunity to open our Bibles together. And we pray in Jesus' name and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. The Bible tell tells us again here in Second Timothy chapter three that all Scripture. You want to highlight that because really it means the entirety of the Bible, all scriptures given by inspiration of God. All of the Word of God is inspired. And because the Bible is inspired, the blueprint that it gives us for the church is absolutely perfect. We seem to be in a mad rush these days to figure out how to do church in a modern culture. Well, the answer is just go back to the Bible. Go back to what the Bible says and just practice what the Bible teaches because the Bible is a perfect blueprint And thank God that we've been given a book that is inspired by the Lord. Now, when we think about the church, I want you to think about this text, Matthew 16, 18. Our Lord made this statement. He said, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. You want to remember that when you think about the church. People say, well, preacher, what's the answer to the problem? I'll tell you, we're living in a very wicked world. Very wicked world. I never thought that I would see the world stoop to the level of vile abominations that we're seeing, but my friend, right here we are. I mean, we're seeing things happen. It used to be, it used to be that you could watch the Olympics and see something of value or see something, but now look what they've gone and done. The very opening of the Olympics was a vile, a vile demonstration of hatred for the Lord Jesus Christ. And folks, we're living in blasphemous days. And evil men are waxing worse and worse. You say, well, preacher, what is the answer? We need a reformation in politics Well, I pray we'll have a reformation. I I pray we'll have a regeneration in this thing of politics, but that's still not the answer. Oh, preacher, we need an upheaval of morals, and you better believe we need an upheaval of morals. The majority of people, you just listen to people talk. If people live like they talk, we are in trouble. I'm telling you there are alley cats that have more morals, and I apologize to the cat. But there are more there are alley cats that have more morals than a lot of people in the culture we live in right now. And uh people a lot of people live I mean they live worse than some animals. Some animals have more sense. You say, well preacher, that offends me. Well you just need to start observing the culture you're living in. Because we are sick at the heart and sick at the head. We're in trouble. But but what are the answers? You say a moral upheaval. Oh no, we need something deeper than a moral upheaval. We need a mighty sweeping revival in the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because the church is God's program for this age. The Lord Jesus did not say, I will build your personal ministry. He did not say I will build your fair church organization. He didn't say that. But he did say, I will build my church. If you want the blessings of God on your life, get yoked up with a Bible-believing, New Testament practicing, local church of the Lord Jesus Christ. God works in the church. Now I know we're living in days where there's great hatred for that. There's a revolt. And uh there's a lot I'd like to say about that, but I don't want to get sidetracked. The reality is, is that the church, the blueprint's still good. Blueprint 's still good. Just because we haven't followed it to the full doesn't mean there's anything wrong with it. The blueprint still, and listen, God hadn't sent us another one. He hasn't given us another set of instructions. He's given us the Word of God, and this is our guide as a local church. Now, there's so much that could be said about a church, but let me go to the book of Ephesians with you, please, Ephesians chapter number two. And just to help us understand something about the church, the Apostle Paul here, under the pen of inspiration, likens the church to three things. Three very practical things. And I'm thankful for the Bible and its simplicity that the Lord would teach us very complex things with these pictures that you and I can understand. How many of you like a book with pictures? Amen. They're just better that way when you're looking. It helps you to see maybe what it is that you're reading about. Well, there are three pictures drawn here in the book of Ephesians. Concerning the church. The first is in Ephesians 2. I'll give you these and we'll go back over them. In Ephesians 2, verses 19 to 22, the church is a building. The church is a building. Now, I'm not talking about a structural building like we're sitting in right now. I know we call this Maranatha Baptist Church, but really this isn't Maranatha Baptist Church This is where Maranatha Baptist Church assembles. This is the address where we gather together. Maranatha Baptist Church are the saved, baptized believers. under the headship of the Lord Jesus Christ, who have joined together to carry out the Great Commission and to obey the Scriptures as God helps us. That is the church. The church is not a building, but yet it's portrayed, it's portrayed in the Bible as a building. In Ephesians chapter 4, verses 11 to 16. The church is portrayed as a body. It's portrayed as a body, a body like your body, the body that you live in. sort of what the the church is all about. And then perhaps the highest and and maybe the most beautiful description is found in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 23 to 33. And here the church is likened unto a bride. The church is called the bride of Christ. And as a bride, it's portrayed here so that we can understand what the church is all about. Let's go back to Ephesians chapter 2 and let me read these verses, starting in verse number 19. The Bible says, Now therefore, ye are no more strangers and foreigners. But fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. In whom all the building, there's your word, building, in whom all the building fitly framed together, groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord. in whom ye also are builded together for an habitation of God through the Spirit. I want you to notice that the church is likened unto a building. Now You don't have to be a contractor to understand some of the framework or the the basics of a building. The building here, as it's described in Ephesians chapter 2, number one, deals with belonging. Notice what he says in verse 19. He says, You're no more strangers than foreigners. So I take that to understand that there are those that belong and there are those that do not belong. You say, well, preacher, how does somebody belong to a church? That means you go up front and you join, and uh I'll deal with that in just a little bit, but but that's not the belonging that I'm talking about here. The building that's being described here is not a physical building, but a spiritual building It's what Jesus said he was going to go do in Matthew 16, 18, or what he's been doing for some 2,000 years, when he said, I will build my church. He's building his church. And as that building, we come to belong. You say, well, how do we do it? Read on. The Bible says, but now that we're no more strangers, foreigners, we're fellow citizens with the saints. And of the household of God. There's the key word, saints. Well, preacher, how do I become a saint? You say, well, uh now I know that you have to be uh granted sainthood through the church. Well, that's not what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches that you become a saint when you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and are born again. So if you're sitting here saved today, you're a saint, according to the word of God. Now you may not look much like a saint, and uh we won't say about how some act, but anyway, the reality is that you are a saint. According to the Word of God, you have been made a fellow citizen with the saints. How did that happen? Through Jesus Christ and the new birth Can I remind you that a religious leader, being a religious leader, being religious doesn't make you a saint. A religious man, a very highly religious man, came to the Lord Jesus and said, You are a teacher come from God. There in John chapter number three, and Jesus cut to the chase and said very clearly, you must be born again. You're not a saint because you hold a position in a church, a good church or a bad. It doesn't matter what church. You don't get sainthood by your position. You don't get sainthood simply because you say, well, I joined that church. Someone said you could join every church in the county and still die without Christ and end up in hell. You can be baptized, someone else said, until the tadpoles have memorized your Social Security number. But the reality is that baptism will not save you. There's only one thing that'll save you, friend. And that's the blood of Jesus Christ. You must be born again. The the belonging that I'm talking about is not getting your name on a church roll. The belonging I'm talking about is having your name written in the Lamb's book of life. And here we see a belonging to the building. You know, when you build a building, you place everything on that building or in that building purposely. You place it. That's what gives the building beauty and structure. Imagine building this building and just kind of throwing a window here and there. But these windows are not thrown here and there. These windows are purposefully placed right where they're useful and necessary And in fact, if you measure it, they're they're proportionately to the length of the building and what's exposed. Because it was put there by a a carpenter, put there by a builder. And I want to remind you that no one just happens to get saved. There's no just no just randomly falling into the fellow citizens or the saints. Listen, there is a purposeful placement into the body of the Lord Jesus Christ when you get born again. I'm talking about belonging. It's a spiritual belonging There is a there is a a recognition of that by the Spirit of God in us. The Bible tells us there in First John that that this witness that we have in ourselves You ever met another Christian, didn't know him from Adam, and you meet them and start talking to them and you realize, hey, they know the Lord. And there's an instant there's an instant camaraderie or an instant uh connection that comes because why? You both know Christ. Your fellow citizens of the saints and of the household of God. Now, one thing the Bible does that religion doesn't is that it levels the ground among the children of God. That's what salvation does. Now religion puts one above another. It it comes with this priest craft and this this uh m mentality of priesthood and laity. The Bible doesn't do that. The Bible makes the ground level. You know how all of us got in the same way through Jesus Christ. I I like to say this, and I hadn't said it in a while. I think I'll say it again. By the way, choir, you ought to sing that more than once a millennium Wouldn't hurt my films if we sung it once a month, so anyhow, had to save that for forgot. But you know something, there's no there there's no big shots or little shots. In the real family of God? Oh, I know there's some that think they are, but the reality is there's no such thing as big shots or little shots. The family of God is a place where we're fellow citizens of the saints and of the household of God. We've all been brought through the same door, through the same blood. Been saved by the same grace, need the same mercy from the Lord, and we're put on the same standing that each believer is. There's no big believers or little believers. Lost or saved. In or out. The Bible's quite clear. So there's the matter of belonging to the body. Number two, there's the matter of being built. Look at verse 20. The Bible says, and are built. Upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. Now listen, he's the builder. As well as the foundation. Quite a strange thing, but it's true. He's the builder. Paul called himself a wise master builder. But ultimately the builder is the Lord Jesus Christ. By the way, let me just say this, except the Lord build the house, they that labor labor in vain. Everything you or I try to do without the help of the Lord or the work of the Lord is vanity. Won't last. Or it might be impressive for a while. You know, it might get our attention for a while. It might look good for a while, but the reality is it will not last. Why? Because it's not of the Lord. It's the Lord who's building the church. And the Bible says we are built, we're part of this body or this building rather, and we're built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. Let me remind you of this. The foundation is good. A building's not much count if it doesn't have a good foundation. My wife and I fancied one day we'd buy an old farmhouse and fix it up and we found one down the street from where we used to live. And I love that old house. It was a beautiful old thing and been abandoned for a while and had a little bit of farmland. And I thought man that's the house of our dreams And I got a contractor to go with me and I said, I want you to give me your opinion of this thing. And so we went over there and uh looked at it and he said, Don't waste your money. And I said, well don't bust my bubble. What do you mean don't waste my money? He said, Don't waste your money on it. I said, look, it doesn't look that bad. I mean a little bit of paint, a few new boards, some windows I mean we could really fix this thing and and it would look nice. I said it's not that bad. It's not too far gone. We went through it. There's no animals living in it. The floor was solid in it. He said, Why don't you come out here and look? And it was built in the time when they put a chimney on each end And then on the other side of those chimneys, there were dormers up there for the second story where the little bedrooms were. And he said, I want you to look real close at those. And I looked and I really didn't see nothing at first. He said, No, just look at them. He said, line them up. And when I when I began to know I noticed that the chimneys were saluting each other. And the and the dormers were salute, I mean they were tipping to each other. He said, it has a foundation problem. He said, Let's go down here where nobody's being, let's look. And when we got underneath there, sure enough, foundation was just shot They'd build it on old field stones and piled them up and put a little bit of mud and that's all it was and that thing had just caved in and it was it it wasn't no good. He said the only thing to do with that is tear it down and replace it I said, I think I'll just stay where I'm at. But my point is this: the building might lean from time to time, but the foundation stands solid. We're built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone. Know this, the foundation of the church has no fault. So we see that we're built. Now look quickly at the building in verse 21 and 2. The Bible says, in whom All the building fitly framed together groweth unto a holy temple in the Lord, in whom ye also are builded together for an habitation of God through the Spirit. I want you to see in this building that the glory of the building is the one who resides in it. The glory of the building is the one who resides in it. It's the one who lives there. You and I've all we've all gone by, just mentioned an abandoned piece of property, and and you know all the life's gone out of it. Because the residents are no longer there. It's not what they built that matters. It's who lived there that was important. And let me say to you that as a Christian, you have the live you're built together. The church is a place where God dwells, the body of Christ, his people. And listen, Jesus Christ lives in you by his Spirit according to the Word of God. The glory of the church is not what it's outwardly adorned with. but who it is inly inwardly possessed by. It's the one who lives on the inside. The glory of the believer is not what they do. Here's how we get the cart before the horse. We make it all about what we do or don't do or what we are or what we what we are not, and we we put all the emphasis right there. But God puts the emphasis on the fact that He lives inside of you. When Solomon built his temple, it was a pile of stone and wood and ornate, yes, elaborate, yes, but it was nothing until God said, Here I am. The tabernacle was just a tent. And by the way, the tabernacle wasn't really that ornate. It was a plain dwelling place. But it was a place just like any other until until God was there. And you say, preacher, what makes us different as Christians? Is it because we got Baptist on our side? Is it because we meet on Sunday morning and wear suits and ties and dress up and come? Is it but oh no, it's none of those things. Here's what makes the church a church. We're nothing more than a gathering of people except for the habitation of God through the Spirit in his people. That's what makes the difference. And that's what's important. Church, that's what's important. Sometimes we get so caught up, we say, we want to be relevant. And you know what we become? We become irrelevant by trying to be relevant to a culture. The lost world's never been interested in the things of God. And your relevancy, an attempt at relevancy, I listened. I listened to some things this week. It made me sick to my stomach. I listened, brother knows what I'm talking about. I listened to high salesmanship salvation being sold to everybody that walked through and bowed their head and winked a little bit and nodded and said, Yeah, I agree. That bothers me That bothers me. Because right across the way we had salesmen that were a whole lot better, but same old tune, just selling something different. Acting and it was no different. And and I'm saying what I'm what am I saying? I'm saying that, my friend, when God puts you in the building, when God does the work, He's the God who comes in and takes residence, and He's the glory of that building. He's the glory of that building. I don't believe they walked in Solomon's temple and said, Wow, look at the gold. Wow, look at the stones So long as God was there, there was a bowed head and a reverent response. Oh, what a God. Oh, how wonderful and majestic and precious Is our Lord. By the way, that's what the church ought to be. As as listen, as a body of believers, I I think sometimes we miss the mark. We say, I I heard a man say this week, he said, you know A lot of times people want to say, oh, what a sermon. He said, I'd rather hear them say, oh, what a savior. Oh, what a savior. Because really, the glory of a believer, the glory of a church is the God who indwells them. He's built he says we're built together and groweth unto a holy temple in the Lord and a habitation of God through the Spirit. I've got to hurry. Number two, I want you to notice we're a body We're not just a building, a building, a structure, if you will, but we are a body. Go over to chapter 4. Chapter 4. Look at verse 11. Ephesians chapter 4 verse eleven. And he gave some apostles and some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers. For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. Till we all come in the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God. unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. That we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine by the slight of men and cunning craftiness Whereby they lie and wait to deceive. But speaking the truth in love may grow up into him in all things, which is the head, even Christ. From whom the whole body, there's your word, the whole body fitly joined together and compacted by that which every joint supplies according to the effectual work and in the measure of every part, maketh increase of the body unto the edifying of itself in love. I want you to notice what he says about a body. He says, number one, the body is to have a fullness. A fullness. If I can say that word in the matter of maturity. It's to be a fullness. What's its fullness? Into the stature of the measure of Christ. Now please listen to me. I think sometimes we miss the mark when we say, well, I'm as good as so-and-so. I'm as good as Christian as that, brother. I'm as good as Christian as that, sister. Can I say to you, you're using a faulty measure? The standard by which we judge is not one another. That's like taking a broken ruler and trying to measure, or taking a a a level that's that's off-level and and trying to find level. The reality is, my friend, all of us are a work in progress. But the stature, the measure, the fullness that we're aiming for The growth that we're desiring is so that we might be like Jesus Christ. That's the goal of the church. I'm not interested in a factory. There's a lot of churches that are just factories. You know what they do? They churn out people who are just like each other. And I tell you you put them in a paper bag and shake them up and dump them out, you couldn't pick one away from the other. They all look alike, talk alike, act alike. I mean, they're just so identical, it's sickening. God didn't save you to make you like me or you or anybody else. He didn't save you to make you like another individual. You know how he saved you to make you like Jesus? And the measure, the stature, the fullness, you know where he's going? He's making you like Christ. That's the fullness of this body. Number two, I want you to see not only that fullness, but the focus of the body is that it grow up into him. Look at verse 15. But speaking the truth in love May grow up into him in all things, which is the head even Christ. And he contrasts that by being children who are tossed to and fro. These these these uh wind of doctrine. Wind of doctrine. Although if you remember, Joe, when that Navajo preacher preached Blown away. Preached a message on Sunday morning our church. Came from the Navajo Reservation there in New Mexico, and he preached that message on blown away. He talked about how many of God's people get blown away. And that's the truth. A lot of people get blown away by what? By the slight of men. I'm going to tell you something, the world's full of men that want you to think like they think so they can make a notch on their belt. They want you to fall in line with their little camp, pick up their flag, fly it, and go with them. But I've got news for you. The only flag you ought to be conc concerned about is the flag of truth. And the only thing you ought to be concerned about is what does the Bible say and stand where that book stands Don't fall under the slight of men. Men are crafty, my friend, even religious men. And cunning craftiness whereby they lie in wait to deceive. When I think of that, I think of a snake lying by a path. I grew up paranoid of snakes. My dad, I don't, he just growing up where we did, I mean, you had to watch for rattlesnakes and you had to watch for copperheads and you had to watch for cottonmouth. And all three of them would put a hurt on you if you got bit. And my dad, we all everywhere we went, he'd say, Now watch son, don't go in those weeds, son. Don't walk in those, don't walk too close to that grass. He said, they like to lay in there and just wait on you So I grew up my in my mind, man, I grew up thinking that snakes just lay everywhere looking for people to bite. That's just the way he raised us. We'd go down to feed the animals down behind the house where the hogs and the chickens were, and he said, Now look out, there's snakes everywhere out here. Don't go off in them weeds. Now I think what he was doing was trying to keep a little boy with ADHD on a path so that he'd pay attention. So we figured the best thing to do is tell him there's a snake in ever bush and he'll stay. And I did stay. I had enough sense. I didn't want to get snake bit. But I knew this, that they were laying there. I didn't know where, but they were laying there. And every once in a while we'd find one and it would prove that, well, maybe he knows what he's talking about. We were hiking in the park in in uh in the Great Smoky Mountains and and uh there was a copper head laying up there on a on a rock. Right where people were walking by and Dad did what's probably against the law and uh he sent that thing to eternity. And Then he decided he'd go around and show everybody. I I you know I'm just a kid. I didn't know that was the wise thing to do. Because somebody went and got a ranger, somebody's going to jail, and we got a walk home. I mean, how are we gonna get home? And uh he went to this lady, she was an environmentalist. Oh, it was it was bad. And she said, Sir, that was a harmless, harmless Snake. My dad said, harmless? He said, Woman, where are you from? And it didn't help if she was from New York. I'm sorry. She was from New York. And he said, he said, ma'am, listen. He said she had three little children. I'll never forget. They were playing around there. They kept coming up, wanting to touch it. Dad said, Don't touch it. He said, That thing's still, uh, you know, that thing will still bite you even though it's dead And uh I don't know if that's true or not, but he said it was. And so he was kept he kept holding it back and and he said, Do you know what would happen if one of your little children got bit? Now we were miles, we were back in the mountains We were miles from anything. He's and he started to tell in great graphic terms what would happen to you if you got bit by a poisonous snake. And and I mean right down to the very death of that little child And he had that woman shaken and in tears. And he said, That's why I killed it. Her environmentalism went out the window when it was put in that kind of terms. Here's what I'm trying to say. The devil don't care how you get snake bit just so long as you get beat. He's lying and waiting to deceive. He'll deceive you on a church pew. He'll deceive you watching the internet He'll deceive you reading some some crazy book that somebody's wrote that's not got any truth in it, or enough truth so that you'll accept it and yet it's still full of lies. I'm just saying, church, understand this, that there is a focus in the church, and what is it? That we grow up into Him. Now here's the goal. If I'm growing, you know where He's taking me? He's taking me towards Christ. Please hear what I'm about to say. Any doctrine that takes me further from Christ, not closer to Christ, is from the devil. Anything that gets my focus off of the Lord Jesus and on something else. And my friend, there's a million things. I don't have time to tell you all of them, but there's a million things that that the devil wants to pull you away with. Know this. We're growing up into Him. Watch this, which is the head even Christ. Then he talks about functioning in verse 16. He talks about the body fitly joined together, compacted. By that which every joint supplieth, according to the facts you're working in the measure of every part, maketh the increase of the body under the edifying itself in love. You know what? When the body's working right, it's good. That's what he's talking about. It helps it. The body helps the body. Now look, I'm looking at a few snow whites and grays and Gones and everything else. And here's what I know. Hey, something just don't work no more. Isn't that aggravating? I mean there's just so you you you know you it just don't work like it used to. Whatever it is, there's a lot of stuff My son took my dad fishing the last time he got to go and his legs were weak because his heart was giving out. And he could jump up and down a bank even in his eighties a lot better than I could. And yet at this point he was just really six months maybe from going to heaven, didn't know it And he complained. And Daddy didn't normally complain, but he complained about his legs. He couldn't get out of the creek. He couldn't get back up on the bank. I remember when he called me, he said, Did Joe tell you what happened? I said, No, sir. He said, I couldn't get out of the creek. He said my legs just wouldn't pick my body up. He said that aggravated me so bad. He said that boy got me by the belt with one hand and set me on the bank. I said, yeah, he's a stout one for sure. He said, well it's do you know how he said, do you know how frustrating it is for your legs not to work? I'm going somewhere. The body's meant to function God makes each of us a part of the body, whether you're a hand, a foot, a mouth, a nose, an eye, an ear. Do you know how devastating it is to the rest of the body when part of the body won't function? We're meant to function. The beauty of this thing is age should not deprive us. In the sense that we can function. The last picture is abroad. Boy, I want to get to my message. I'm giving you my introduction. I want to get to my message. But in the bride we see in Ephesians chapter 5, look at verse 22 or 3 quickly. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is head of the church, and he is the Savior of the body. That's Ephesians 5. 23. The church has a head. It's Jesus. Just like a home has a head, it's the man. The church has a head, it's Jesus. Anything that infringes upon that head is not from God. I was reading the story of the Covenanters out of Scotland, 1630s. And I believe it was King Charles who came to the throne in England and Issued an order to the churches of Scotland. Now you're under our authority. You use our prayer book. You use our material. And those old Scottish men said no. King, you're not head of the church. You may be head of the country, but you're not head of the church. And those men signed covenants, many of them with their blood, said, we will not bow to that king. We will not bow to that authority. We have one king, his name is Jesus. Dear friend, listen, the devil is constantly trying to usurp authority and take a place that belongs to Jesus only. He's the head. As the bride, he's the head. Now look, you men that are married, you love your wife. She's your wife. You don't want another man telling your wife what to do. Amen. I know we're a weird culture today, but the Bible's still true. That home's a unit. That home's an intact unit. That home's a sacred circle that God sealed up. He's the head. That man of that home is the head of that home. And dear precious ladies, he don't have to ask your permission to be head. I want to say more about that. Lord help us now. Alright? I can sense that we're more culture than we are Christian on some of this stuff. Because the Bible teaches this. If your home's not in order, it's out of order. And God made you not to be a dictator, because I'm going to show you something here in just a minute. Quickly, we're going to see not only is he the head of the bride, Jesus is head of the bride, but he's also the heart for the bride. Verse 25, it says, Husbands love your wives. Even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. Church, listen, Jesus loves his bride. He loves his bride. He loves the bride with a sacrificial love. He proved it on Calvary's Dark Hill, and he proves it again and again and again, my friend, because Jesus loves his bride. He loves his bride. He's got a heart for that bride. That's what keeps the that's what's the there's where the balance is. You know why men become hard and cruel? Because they don't love. Love tempers that. Love don't step aside and let somebody else lead. Love leads. But love also understands there's a heart there that needs to be protected. Then look at verse 29. Here's the help for the bride. There's help for the bride. The Bible says, no man ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the church. He's talking about loving your wife as your own body. And he's saying, hey fellas, remember this. You take care of yourself. You provide and care for yourself. That's what you're supposed to do for your wife, and that's what Jesus does for the church. He provides and cares. He nourisheth and cherisheth the church. That's our help. By the way, church, you know where our help comes from? Our help comes from the Lord. Our help comes from the Lord. I'll never forget teaching some folks. We were talking about doing some things around the building, and the first thing was said, well, we can get a grant. I said, what do you mean get a grant? Oh the government gives religious grants all the time. I said we're not getting a grant from them. Why why would we want a grant? And and they said, well everybody does it. I said I don't care if everybody does it The government don't provide for the church. The Lord provides for his church. The Lord provides. It's the Lord who provides. And man, I remember the shock. They said, look, that's I mean that's everybody does that. I said, Well look, let's read our Bible. It says that the Lord nourisheth and cherisheth his church. He will take care of the church. And if God's people will listen to the Lord and obey him, he'll meet the needs through them by his provisions, and we don't have to look to the world or look to the church or look to the government. And say, help me. And listen, my friend, whether it's a material matter or a physical or spiritual or whatever it may be, the Lord is still the helper of the church. He helps the church. Paul wrote to the Corinthians and said, shame on you because you're taking each other to law. You're going to court. Shame on you. He said, you're going to judge angels and men one day, and you don't have enough sense to take care of the little things of the earth. He said, stop that. Take care. I remember years ago there used to be a parachurch organization that come around and solve problems in congregations. I thought, how foolish If a congregation's got problems, God's got an answer in that congregation. Because he nourisheth and cherisheth his body. He provides for his church. He's going to provide for his church. And know this, he's got the answer. And Paul told those Corinthians, he said, Look for a wise man. Surely there's a wise man among you. There's somebody. And he said, Start with the humble. Go find the low list member and ask them what the answer is. Now if we'd get back to that, we would not be a laughing stock out here in the world. Amen. Christians setting around taking each other to court, acting like the world. We ought to sit down around the table in our local church and some godly spirit-filled men and a and say, hey, what's the answer? What how are we going to fix this? What's the solution Because listen, God takes care of his church. Now, mercy Be free from that. Not everybody feels that way, son. There's two. Amen. We're growing. Can I give you my my message quick? Please. Number one. If the church is such a marvelous creation, it's a building. There's no other building like it. Man, it's something The church is a body. And there's no other body quite like the church. And the church is a bride. Oh, Bible, can I say this? He's coming back for it. And he says it's going to be without spot or wrinkle. I've seen a lot of brides in my day. And I know this. That day is always a big day for that bride And y you know, hey, you know what men do? We get up here and stand, do our part. She gets the grand entrance, right? Rightfully so. I'm telling you, there's a reason for that Dies on that broad. Dies on that bride. Everybody stand, please stand. Dun dun dun dun in the cup. Beautiful. A lot of effort. Get ready. I remember Elizabeth, she was at the church six o'clock that morning. We got married at two or three, I forget I was milking cows at 6 o'clock. I got a haircut at 10. 30. Had my brother tie my tie at 12. 15. He said, You better get your hide to the church. They're going to think you're not coming. Man, I don't know what Albee did for all that time. But I'll tell you what, when those doors opened, my heart just about beat out of my chest. And I never seen nothing like that in my life. Preacher bumped me and he said, close your mouth, son, you're grueling. I said, Yes, sir. Man, beautiful, beautiful. I'll tell you what, when Jesus comes back, he's not coming back for a second-rate church. He's coming back for a church without spot or wrinkle. Church is a glorious thing. Number one, you ought to belong to one. So what do you mean? You ought to identify with a church in membership. Preachers say, well, I don't see membership in the Bible. You don't see a command, but you see a principle. Acts chapter number one, 120 of them gathered. Everybody knew their names, knew who belonged, who didn't. There was added to the church on the day of Pentecost. Added to, you don't add to something that don't exist, imaginary. They were added to, they were added to something you ought to belong to it. You know, you represent your ball team, wear your t-shirt if you're an Eagle or an Oriole or a Raven. Or opossum, I don't know what we have around here. Whatever you are. And you represent, man, when they're playing, you wear the hats and the garment, you're all that, you're not ashamed of that. We ought not to be ashamed of our Lord and his local church. You ought to identify one. You ought to belong to one. I say this in great love, my friend. If you have difficulty belonging to this church, find one you can belong to. Find one you can belong to. Say, look, I can put my heart there and I can serve the Lord there. I can make that my home. Listen, we ought to belong, we ought to identify with the local church. Number two, we ought to be involved in it. God's given you look, some of you have a gift. In fact, all of us who are saved have a gift from the Lord. There's a spiritual gift, and some have more than one. And you know where God wants you to use it? In the church. For the benefit of the body. Imagine your hand this morning saying, I'm not going to feed you. You poured your Wheaties and put milk in it and you sat down there and that hand stove up and said, I'm not going to lift a fork or a spoon. Now wouldn't that be frustrating? Imagine trying to feed yourself with your foot. Well, you can't do that. Why? Because God made that hand. A lot of churches are crippled. Because folk won't use what God gave them. And engage. Use. You ought to battle for it. You ought to belong to it. You ought to be involved in it. You ought to battle for it. You say, what do you mean? You ought to protect the testimony of your local church. I'm not talking about covering sin, doing wickedness. No, no. But you ought to battle for your church. You ought to stand up for your local church. Be loyal. I'm gonna tell you something. There's a lot of families that have ruined their children because of their little talks on the way home after church. Those babies hate and I meet them all the time around here. I meet them in this county everywhere I go. There's people that hate God and hate the local church, and I don't know that they didn't hear a whole lot of it going home. with mom and dad. Well I didn't dis I agree I disagree with that. I don't I don't agree with what 's I don't I don't like what they do around there. And they just and they what what they do is they plant a seed of hate in that child's heart for the things of God. We ought to be careful of that. And then we blame others, but I'm gonna tell you something, a lot of it rests on our door. And God broke my heart over that when my first our first child was born And I purpose, and my children will tell you, I purpose in my heart, everywhere we've been has been the best church they've ever been in. I don't tell our kids things that that would pollute their mind or poison their thinking. Because the reality is, look, we're all flesh and blood. And we have moments and seasons in life. And there's no perfect church. If you find one, don't join it because you'll ruin it. But the reality is we ought to battle for our church. God 's people often shoot themselves in the foot because they run down their local church. If there's things to be dealt with, deal with it. But the world don't need to hear about it. We don't need to take our listen, w where do you wash your dirty clothes? In your house, in your washing machine? Now you might go Amish and hang them out on the line, but even most of those are in the backyard. Here's what I'm trying to say. We ought to protect. This church has testimony. And the name that it has is the name that it's portrayed through the members that belong. That's why you ought to live right. Brother, sister, you ought to live right. Because people make an a d a decision about the reality of this church based on how you live your life every single day. If you cheat and steal and lie and act like the devil, then they're not going to have a very high opinion. But if you live right and try to live right, I'm not talking about being perfect. You show me how you can be that and I'll gladly preach it But the reality is you be real and right with God and before men. And I'll tell you what, they'll begin to see, hey, at least you mean business. You ought to battle for it. And then let me say this and I'm done. There's blessings that come with it. There's blessings. How many of you had your breakfast this morning? Some of you. Good. You ought to eat breakfast, most important meal of the day. You eat your breakfast. Your belly's full. You got some energy. You ought to think aren't you thankful for that hand that fed you? I'm grateful that that hand picked up my eggs and My toast and my strawberries and blueberries. Gotta eat them things. I'm thankful. And I'm gonna tell you something, the body can enjoy blessings when the body does what the body should. They're blessings. There's the blessings of a praying family who will go to God when you're in trouble. There's times, my friend, that you can't get to God. You're in such a mess you can't get to God. But aren't you glad to belong somewhere where there are people that go to God for you? And they'll get on their knees and they'll cry out, and you may or may not know about it, but my friend, they'll call on him. These are blessings. The Bible talks about uh uh a man or two walking together, and it it says if one falls down, the other pick him up. Isn't it good to have somebody pick you up when you fall down? That's part of but that's one of those blessings. That broth that being a part of the brotherhood or the part of the family of God. I'm telling you, my friend, there are blessings. You say Well nobody ever done that for me. Well get busy doing it for somebody else. You reap what you sow. There's blessings. God will rebu abundantly repay There's blessings belonging to the church. Oh, friend, the Bible has a lot to say about the church. I hadn't scratched the surface. But I'm going to tell you this: we ought to belong to it, we ought to be involved in it, we ought to battle for it, and there's blessings. I've often taught If I wasn't a pastor, the Lord sidelined me somehow. I've often wondered, you know, what kind of church member I'd be. And sometimes I just daydream about what I'd do if I was a church member. And boy, it's a long list. I I you know, I go through these things in my mind. I'm like, you know what I'd do? One day I thought, you know, hard to preach that. And I said, Oh, somebody'll think I'm trying to be somewhere and I'm not. But you know, we ought to want to be a blessing to the body. When your life's over, your race is run. There ought to be some tears of sadness that that blessing is gone. Dorcas, when she died, you know those women come around and they said, look at what she used to make us. Look at all the little things she showed us. Look at how she showed us her love. Oh, she wasn't preaching and she wasn't leading the church there, but yet she was serving the body. And the body missed the blessing. Oh, God help us not to live in such a way that when we're gone, they're like, that storm's over. Be a blessing. Are you in the body? Are you born again? That's important. You can join all the churches you want to, but if you're not saved, you're just not saved. You need to trust Christ today. You need to call upon Him. He's mighty to save. That foundation is still firm. And He'll dig you out of the Miery Pit and put your feet on a solid rock. He'll save you today if you call on him. Christ died for your sin, was buried, and rose again the third day. He did that for you, friend. And dear saved brother and sister , What's the Lord touched your heart about concerning the church? Yes, it's a place to belong. Yes, it's a place to be involved in. Yes, it's worth battling for. And yes, there are blessings attached to it. I want all God has for me. And I believe for me as a Christian, he's reserved them through the work and efforts of a local church. Let's stand together.