The Lord gave me a message this morning on that uh from Lazarus as I was praying and I'll tell you, it's almost word for word. I never heard that song before. But uh I'm glad the Lord knows. And so I appreciate that. And God is able, you know Lazarus is a picture of the believer He was dead and God called him forth. He was bound and the Lord commanded him to be set free. Then he was seated at the table. Now you're in one of them three places. You're either still dead in your sin, you've been called to life, you're bound, you could be living and still be bound. You can be saved and still be wrapped up in your chains of flesh, but uh there's a place at the table that God wants to get you to. Boy. I wasn't so sure I've got to preach what I'm preaching tonight, I'd just go on and do that. But I'm sure I've got what the Lord would have us do. In Revelation chapter 6. And I want you to turn there if you would kindly. Revelation chapter number 6. And I'm going to read beginning in verse 9 down to verse 16. But as you're finding your place in Revelation, let me remind you that we've covered four seals. And you're going to find a pattern through Revelation with the seals, the trumpets, the vials. that he divides them in four and three. The first four seem to be set in a category or by themselves. And the last three are in a category by themselves. The first four seals are represented by horsemen. And we talked about those last week. The last three, the horseman analogy, is laid aside. And I'll say more about that in just a minute. But we've already looked at the white horse. And I'll remind you that the white horse represented the blasphemous philosophies of the last days. He goes forth to conquer, but he don't he don't have an arrow. He don't have a sword. But how does he conquer? He conquers through his humanism, through his ideology that is contrary and blasphemous, as it's called here. The red horse represented the belligerent policies of the last days. And we talked about some of those policies that are in place. And by the way, if you haven't noticed, this world is not your home. Everything in this world is geared to accept the Antichrist. It's all going that way. That's where we're headed. So don't be surprised that policies are contrary to the scriptures. Because that's the age we're living in. That's where we're headed as a people. Number three, we looked at the black horse. He was the horse of blighted prosperity. And we talked about uh how that the uh poverty is is counteracted with the uh great wealth, the oil and the wine. He said, Don't touch it, don't don't touch it. But the other things are going to be quite scarce. And then we looked at the pale horse and we talked about the baneful pestilence of the last days, and talked about especially the diseases and the various things that this horse, when he's unloosed, when he's set out of the stable to ride across the earth, there's going to be a scale of things. You say, preacher, we've always had uh wicked philosophies and policies and uh various prosperity and and pestilence, yeah, but never like what's coming. On no scale like we're reading about now. The escalation in the last days is going to be off the charts and immeasurable by anything we have ever witnessed. Now we come to that division. And as we do, we come to these final three seals. We're only going to get to cover two of them because Revelation 7 interrupts that third seal. And it's on purpose. Revelation 7 deals with that 144,000. It's a parentheses in the midst of God's judgment. And we're going to talk about that parentheses a little later. But as we consider these division, now we come to the seals, understand that That these first four, these horsemen, the emphasis is put on them for warning's sake, their warnings, their alarms, their serving as indicators of things to come. These four horsemen, and I'm not putting them anywhere other than just saying that they're identified different from the seals because they're meant to alarm us They're meant to awaken us. They're meant to be indicators to us. We're to do what Luke 21 says, and when these things begin to come to pass, then look up. And lift up your heads for your redemption draweth nigh. It means that we need to start recognizing that we're living in the last days. Again, I say, when these horsemen ride When these horsemen ride, it's going to be a scale unknown to us currently. In fact, the world's never seen what's about to be poured out in the ways of judgment But what we can see is the shadow of those horsemen coming up over the horizon. We know they're headed our way. We're seeing the precursor to those judgments being unleashed upon the earth. Now when we come to this fifth seal, notice with me in Revelation chapter 6, beginning in verse number 9. And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? And white robes were given unto every one of them, and it was said unto them that they should rest yet for a little season Until their fellow servants also and their brethren that should be killed as they were should be fulfilled And I beheld, when he had opened the sixth seal, and lo, there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair. And the moon became his blood, and the stars of heaven fell under the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of a mighty wind. And the heaven departed as a scroll when it's rolled together, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places. And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chief captains And the mighty men, and every bondman and every free man hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains, and said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us. And hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of his wrath is come, and who shall be able to stand? What a sobering part of the Bible. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us, please. Father, we bow in Jesus' name. We thank you for the Word of God. We especially thank you for this part of the word because you've attached a blessing to the reading of it. We've witnessed this week after week. The mere reading of this, your word, has brought blessing, and we thank you for that. We ask you, Lord Lord, to do a work in our hearts this evening. Lord, please have me behind the cross. Help me to lift up the Lord Jesus Have your way in this meeting. Save the lost. Reclaim the backslidden in heart. Speak to your people. You know the need, and God will give you the glory, for we're looking to you and trusting you. Lord, be our teacher tonight. Open these deep things, often these mysterious things. Open these things to our heart and teach us, Lord, we pray. And we ask these things in Jesus' name and God's people said. Amen. Well, I'm going to continue with that outline, and I want to give you that fifth seal. And now we're no longer looking at the horseman, but these seals are still being released or unloosed. And this fifth seal speaks of the brutal persecution of the last days. The brutal persecution of the last days. When we come to verse number nine, we see first the souls that are slain. And they're in an unusual place. He said, I saw under the altar. Most believe that to be the brazen altar. It says I saw them under the altar, the souls of them that were slain I want you to notice what John was allowed to see. Now again, much of this, I I really, we're in waters to swim in here. But but John was able to see this vast number of people who had been martyred for their faith He sees that great number, and I believe, personally, I believe that these are uh those uh tribulation saints, or at least a portion of them, or perhaps even them leading up to the days of the tribulation that had been martyred. And he sees a host of them. They're under the altar, those souls that were slain. I want you to notice that their only offense. Look at their offense. They were slain for the word of God and for the testimony they held. That's why they were slain. They were not criminals. They were not wicked men. They were not individuals who had done anything wrong as far as the law is concerned, but they simply were slain because of the word of God and the testimony that they held. I don't know if you sense it or not, but we live in a culture that is increasingly unfriendly to anything, Christ or Christianity. And it's not a real stretch of the imagination to believe that martyrdom could come on the scene in just a mere moment of time. It it doesn't take a lot of imagination to realize that that I'm telling you nations could turn, our nation can turn, whole lot of other nations could turn in just a matter of days, maybe even, perhaps even weeks. could turn and all of a sudden Christians could be put to death without even the slightest notice of the rest of this world. That's where we're living That's the attitude of the lost world mostly. I I remember back in the days, you remember when Janet Albright was Secretary of State? Remember what she said? She I remember this. I was just a I wasn't a wee boy, but I was a teenager, I think, when she was in office, and she said the problem with America is fundamental Christianity. You remember her saying that? She said that's a problem in America. That we could be a peaceful nation if we did not. Now when she said that, you could nearly hear among the liberal media the audible gasps of the people that were listening. It was a shocking statement in that day to be said. I guarantee you it could be said by the highest office in the land in the day we're living in, and there would be multitudes of cheers that would say, yep, that's right, that's our problem. That's how far advanced we are along this line. And here this that John's allowed to look, and I believe he's looking in tribulation days, and when he's looking in the tribulation days, he sees under God's altar all of these souls who have been slain for the Word of God And for the testimony, look at that, they hailed. Have you ever thought about what that was? It was the testimony of faith in Jesus Christ. They believed on the Lord Jesus Christ for the salvation of their soul, and that testimony put them at odds with the rest of the world. I've got news for you. It uh it put near always has been that way to some degree. But never on this scale. Never on this scale. In Revelation 7 we read of that 144 ,000 who were sealed. as they go out to evangelize. And when you begin reading in verse number nine, you see another great multitude. Revelation 7. 9 says There was an a multitude which no man could number of all nations, kindreds, people, tongues, and they stood before the throne. Now you say, Who are they? Are they all the saints? Well, look what it says. They are clothed with white robes and palms are in their hands. And then when you go on down here in Revelation 7 and read verse 13 and 14, he asked the question, one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these which are arrayed in white robes? And whence came they? Now who's this crowd? Now, obviously that we've already seen that great multitude of redeemed who are around the throne. This is another group of individuals. Verse 14, he says, I said unto him, sir, thou knowest. And he said to me, These are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. You say, who are they? They're the born again out of the tribulation who've been martyred for their faith in Jesus Christ. That's who they are. Do you realize there's going to be a great score of people saved in the tribulation? You say, who will they be? It will be men and women who've never had an opportunity to respond to the gospel, to have the Holy Spirit of God deal with their hearts. It's going to be people who've never heard. 1 Thessalonians, or 2 Thessalonians rather, chapter 2, tells me that if you've heard and rejected the gospel, you'll be damned to not have an opportunity. You'll not have a chance to be saved. People say, well, I'll wait till the tribulation comes and when it all happens, I'll believe. God says you won't. He'll judge you in the sense that you had a chance and you rejected, and because of that, you'll not be saved. But there's going to be a host of people, this 144,000 go around the world preaching, and there's going to be a host of people who are born again during this time. Yet there's going to be a cost involved This 144,000, as they go forth preaching, when these individuals get converted, you know what's going to happen? They're going to be martyred, just like that. They hold the word of God and the testimony of their faith. This will not be a friendly world for those who follow Jesus Christ. Now don't be surprised that it's like that already. We're just getting there. You say, what's holding back? I'll tell you what's holding back. To put it in a scriptural term, he who ledeth Now let us the Holy Ghost is holding things back. The presence of the church is holding things back. And when the Holy Spirit's gone, the church is gone, there's going to be no holding back. Judgment's going to be released And when that seal 's released, my friend, there's going to be immediate death for those who put their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. I want you to see those souls that are slain. But then I want you to notice You say, preacher, does that happen today? Oh, it is. It is. You know last year they estimate some 8,000 people died for their faith? Some 8,000? You say that's not a big number, that's big enough. In a civilized world, are we still killing Christians for being Christians? They were killed in North Korea, Yemen, Nigeria, Somalia, Pakistan, China, Iraq. These are the top murderers of Christians, Cuba, Egypt, Jordan, and others. Killed for their faith. Had the privilege to sit with the Voice of the Martyrs board in Canada on several occasions. They used our building for their meetings. And I'll never forget they said we'd love for you to come have a meal with us, sit in on the meeting and hear the discussions. And I remember sitting with men, some of those men, who had been in Siberia, who had been in prison. Their hands were twisted and mutilated from what they'd endured. They counted themselves the unfortunate ones. I said, what do you mean you're the unfortunate? We're the ones that survived. Our brothers got promoted. And I remember one old brother he said, uh he said, you know, he he had spent multiple years. I believe he had spent nine years in a labor camp in Siberia. And he said that he would eat for three years they would feed him out of the trash can where the guards that took care of them throwed their leftovers. And he said those men would purposefully do vile things to the food in there because they knew these Christians would be fed. I'm going to be honest with you. I told those men, I don't feel worthy to be in your presence. I thought I knew what being a Christian was. I don't even feel like I'm a Christian around people like you. And they talked about it. And as they discussed, they were talking about things that are going on right now in this world. And I said to them, you don't hear this on the news. We don't hear this being discussed by the politicians of the land. And they're talking about hundreds of individuals disappearing out of these countries. And he said, We know they're dead, so we're taking care of their families. And many of these men had entered into businesses and and were making money so they could take care of these martyred men's families. keep feeding them and keep getting groceries on uh on their table and look after them. And they said it's happening all the time. They said it's not going to be publicized because this, and here's what he said, this is not our father 's territory. Now we know it's his world. But you know where we're at? We're in the days of the ascendancy of the man of sin. He's rising to the forefront. He's being allowed to come to power. And listen, yes, it's happening right now. Yes. I I I believe I read recently that somewhere four to six Christians uh every hour are being put to death, as best we can tell. North Korea, we have no idea how many are being killed. We have no idea how many are still disappearing in places in Russia. We have no idea how many Christians are still being martyred in Cuba. We have no idea. We don't know all the extent of this. I'm glad I've got a God who does. He knows exactly what's going on. Thank God he's got an eye on his little children. If the sparrows are falling and hitting the ground and he's watching, don't you know he's watching over his own? Oh beloved, listen to me. Yes, martyrdom 's taking place, but hear me please. Not on the scale I'm reading about here. This is going to be such a magnitude, it's going to be a tidal wave of bloodshed of those who follow Jesus Christ. Look at verse number 10. Not only do we see the slain souls, but we see the sigh of the slain. Look what they said. How long? Do you hear them crying? How long, O Lord? Holy and true. This is not an unbelieving sigh. This isn't the cry of people that just don't trust God. This is the cry of vengeance. I like what one old writer said. He said, this isn't a Christian prayer. This is a tribulation prayer. This isn't the age of grace prayer. I I know we like to pray those prayers, don't we? Or at least we feel like it sometimes. We often feel like praying those prayers, those vengeful prayers. David prayed a few of them. And uh, you know, but but listen to me, friend, that's not the age of grace. The age of grace, there's grace for every sinner. There's salvation for every lost man or woman who's who will come to the Lord Jesus. This is a prayer of of tribulation. This is the prayer of vengeance. Oh Lord, avenge our blood. Now I've got news for you. God's going to hear and answer that prayer. When the age of grace is over, the judgment of God will fall. And you can rest assured the blood will be avenged. And please hear me. Please hear me. I wouldn't want to be in the shoes of that crowd. I wouldn't want to be in the shoes of that crowd. They may they may stand today great, strong, powerful. They may they may eliminate these Christians, behead them, shoot them, starve them. Torture them, persecute them, but when the king comes, that's over with. I wouldn't want to face the God of heaven having touched one of his little ones My Bible says it's better for you to hang a millstone around your neck and be throwed in the sea than it is to harm one of these little ones. Do you think God's gonna let 'em go and get off the hook, if you will? Judgment has fallen. Yes, there's going to be martyrdom. Yes, there's going to be the crying out of these souls, but yes, there's going to be a day of vengeance. And remember what God said. Vengeance is mine. I will repay, saith the Lord. God will do a better job than we can. But then I want you to notice something special. And sad, really. Verse 11 it says, And white robes were given unto every one of them, and it was said unto them that they should rest for a little season. Until their fellow servants also and their brethren that should be killed as they were should be fulfilled. It's an awful special thing. He's given them the these robes and this rest. Those robes, uh I see them all throughout Revelation. It is the righteousness of God. It's the highest honor that a child of God can portray, and that's to be robed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. You and I don't have any righteousness. All our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. But we wear as believers the robe of the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And these precious souls are robed. But not only are they robed, but they're resting. Isn't that a precious word? You know, I'm learning the older I get how m how sweet rest is. I didn't used to like to rest. In fact, I told my wife, I said, if I could take a pill for food and I could take a pill for sleep, I'd love to do that because both of them interfere with what I want to do. But now as I get older I find myself looking forward to bedtime. Amen. I look forward to being able to shut my eyes, and especially if I'm able to sleep, that's a bonus. And you're like, oh, praise the Lord. Man, uh I woke up the other day, I slept six hours without moving. And my first thought was, did I die? When I first woke up, I thought Am I dead? And then when I went to move I was like, well I might have should have, you know, because if you don't move for six hours, can does anybody know what I'm talking about If you don't move for six hours, you might need hospital assistance to get your old stiff carcass up out of the bed. These dear souls are at rest. No more fear, no more hell, no more battle, no more antichrist, no more war. No more tribulation, no more fighting, no more pain, no more sorrow, no more tears. They're at rest. Thank God there's a rest that remains for the people of God. There's a place of eternal rest that we long for and l anticipate and look towards. And the world can say what they want to about it. The Bible's already settled it in my heart that there's a place He's gone to prepare It's not a place where I've got battles to fight or burdens to bear or building to do. It's a place where I can rest. It's a place where my soul's at rest. And these dear saints are given that royal rest of God. Can you imagine what kind of rest that's going to be? Why there's that there there's not a spa in the country that make you rest like this place will. Not a one. There's not a peaceful retreat that you can run to that's going to give you rest like you're going to get when you get home. Now some of you are young enough that you just, well, I'm not too interested in rest. If you live long enough, you will be. But you think about this, I'm glad there's a place where I don't have any more f battles to fight. You know what I know, as long as I'm in this flesh, there's going to be a battle of some sorts. It's a battle with the flesh, it's going to be a battle with the world, battle with the devil. There's going to be some battle going on. Don't ever think you'll get to a place here where there are no battles. There's going to be burdens to bear between here and home. Burdens because we're human beings, burdens because We live in a sin-cursed world. Burdens because it's the lot of man. Man born a woman's a few days and full of trouble. There's going to be burdens There's also going to be work and labor and sweat and toil and all of those things are required on this side of eternity. But I'm glad there's a home God's prepared that He has removed all of that, and it is a place of blessed rest. Here's here what the he here here what said to these dear souls, you rest, you just rest for a little season. Until, and here's the sad part. Your fellow servants and brethren should be killed as they were. The bloodshed hadn't ended. So that tells me we're still in tribulation. We're still, in fact, as we go for further here, I think we haven't even entered into the worst part of tribulation. And he's saying there's going to be more. There's going to be more. And it's a sad thing to stand before you tonight and tell you, sadly, there's going to be more. There's going to be more. This is a world of tears. This is a veil of tears. But thank God, just on the other side of the Vale of Tears is the land of sweet rest. A land listen, a land that is fairer than day. You imagine what the we were just singing about when he takes me by the hand? And leads me through the promised land. What a day, glorious day that's going to be. That's real. You hear me? That's real. If you're saved, that's real. This isn't figment of imagination. This isn't a video game. This is the truth of the Bible. This is reality. This is real. There's coming a day when the God who saved you, who washed you in his blood, who made you a home in heaven, is going to give you the royal tour and allow you to see all is prepared. What a day What a happy day. Thank God for that. Don't feel sorry for yourself because you're saved. Some of God's little people just think, well, you know, I can't live in the world like I used to. Thank God This isn't where you're going to live forever anyway. This is a temporary stopping spot. This is just where you're passing through. You've got a home awaiting you on the other side. Oh, there is coming a day when the Lord's going to rule, and Satan's cruel misery will be brought to an end. But as the scriptures teach us, the end is not yet. The end is not yet. We come to that sixth seal. And this seal is the blind panic of the last days. The blind panic of the last days. I believe Jesus alluded to this when he said, men's hearts will fail them for fear. For things look for looking for things that are coming on the earth. They're looking down the road. There's always been some who can see beyond tomorrow. And they can see what's coming. They can see the the coming clouds, the gathering clouds, they can see the judgment looming. And they see it, and the Bible says many will see it, and because of that they'll fear, they'll be afraid, their hearts will Literally stop for fear. And that's that's that's possible. That's those that work in the medical field would testify that there are people that are, you talk about being scared to death. You can literally be scared to death. Scared of the place at your heart. I I love to pick on my mother and I sure miss her. She's in heaven. But I I remember the last big snake I caught and brought home. She pulled in the garage and I thought, you know, now that snake was already in eternity, so it wouldn't hurt her. But uh if snakes go to eternity, but anyway, I I just rolled it out behind her cars. About a ten foot long racer, black racer. And I just rolled him out behind her car. And she was getting her stuff, you know, she'd been shopping, she'd been at work, she got off and she shopped for the grandkids and She's gathering up her stuff and had her little lunch bag and she got out of that car and she turned around and when she saw that snake I I can't tell you the things she said when she realized I did it, but she threw that stuff and then she grabbed her chest. And boy, all the color left my face because it scared me. I'll never forget mom leaned against that car And she after she got her composure, she said, honey, don't do that no more. She said, I don't think my heart can take that. And she wasn't kidding. Fear has the power to affect you that way. I'm talking about things that are far greater than some little harmless rat snake. I'm talking about something that look look what he says, these calamities. Look what's going to come on the earth. He says, and and I beheld, verse 12, when he had opened the sixth seal. And lo there was a great earthquake and the sun became as black, became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became as blood And the stars of heaven fell under the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs when she's shaken of a mighty wind. And the heaven departed as a scroll when it's rolled together, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places. Now listen Some try to spiritualize or allegorize this, but I just can't help but believe that it's a literal interpretation. That it is literally, this is literally gonna happen. Can you imagine the sun going black? Would that not alarm you to some degree? And the sun and the moon the moon, the Bible says here, will turn to blood. The earth will be shaken, and by the way, that great earthquake It's going to be uh such a an earthquake. It's a worldwide earthquake. It's an earthwide wor uh earthquake. The whole earth is going to tremble. Can you imagine that? And the stars coming down out of heaven, and the heavens split and rolled like a scroll? And the mountains that literally shifting and the islands moving about? The earth is going to revolt under the wrath of God that's being poured out on it. There's going to be just a trembling and a coming apart at the scenes of the whole earth. Can you imagine those calamities? I promise you, during those days, man will not whistle along going to work, making money, thinking all's well. He'll know he's in trouble. You say how do you know that? Because you read the next verse and you see the classes of people that are involved. In verse 15, the kings, the great men, the rich men, the chief captains, the mighty men Every bondman, every free man hid themselves in the dens and the rocks of the mountains. Do you realize that's all of all of humanity? That's all classes of people From the lowest to the highest, you know what they're saying? We're in trouble. We're in trouble. Look at the earth's coming apart. The judgment 's falling. Listen, do you think those folks when the rain started falling Back in Noah's day, popped out their umbrellas and went jumping puddles. I don't believe they did. Number one, they'd never seen rain. That probably scared them to death. You imagine not knowing what rain is and all of a sudden the heavens open up and it's starting to fall? And not only did it open up the fountains of the deep broke up, we're talking about uh a calamity, a catastrophic flood of some measure we don't know anything about. And I'm sure there were people crying out in terror, Oh, the what's going on? We're under judgment And listen, I'm telling you, that day's going to come again, but it's going to be more than water that covers the land. It's the judgment of God that's going to come starting in heaven. as he shuts out the lights and glory, as shuts out the sun shine and the stars and the moon and so on. Listen, friend, it's going to be a fearful time and all men are going to be affected. No one can escape. The entirety of the earth has come under the wrath of the Lamb. Now notice their cry, verse 16 and 17. And said, here's what they said, this this great great crowd of people I just read, and said to the mountains and the rocks fall on us Fall on us, hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of his wrath is come, and who shall be able to stand? You know what they said? Hide us from his face. You know why? Because he's holy. And by the way, the face of God at this point doesn't have a smile for sinners. He's wearing a frown of judgment. He's come with a frown of judgment, and they're saying, Hide me from his face. I don't want to see that face. I don't want to face him. I don't want to look at him. Hide me from the fierceness of the wrath of the Lamb That wrath is being poured out, and here's the great question, who shall stand? Here's the answer. Nobody. Nobody. Listen, money's not going to help nobody on that day. Clout's not going to help anybody on that day. Position 's not going to help anybody on that day. On that day it don't matter what your peers think. On that day it doesn't matter when the earth is giving way, when the heavens open up, when the judgment begins to fall, there's going to be nowhere to hide. Nowhere to hide Can I make a plea to you tonight? Can I plead with you? Because the day's coming when there's going to be nowhere to hide. There's going to be nowhere to run. There's going to be nowhere to go. There's going to be no place of safety. There's going to be no refuge. There's going to be no place for you to say, Oh, hide thou me, thou blessed rock of ages. There's going to be no mercy on that day. There's going to be no forgiveness on that day. There's going to be no hiding spots on that day. But there is today. But there is today. Today there's a hiding place. Today there's a refuge. Today there's somewhere like Moses in the cleft of the rock. Today there's somewhere like the hollow of his hand. Today there's somewhere where God will pass over when he sees the blood. You know where that is? It's in Jesus. He's my hiding place. Listen, my friend, if you've not run to him, run to him now. If you're not saved, you better get saved now. If you're not right with God, you need to get right with God now. Today's the day of salvation, friend. You better run and find you a hiding place. Oh, listen, you hide you can't hide behind church membership on that day You can't hide behind your denominational ties on that day. You can't hide in those baptismal waters, heal up in those waters. You're not going to hide lighting candles, praying prayers. You'll only have one place There's only one refuge, that precious blood that flowed from Calvary's Hill. When that blood, when he sees the blood, he'll pass over. That hiding place is in the Lord Jesus Christ. I'll tell you what, you don't know the value of a hiding place until you need one. I was reading about the Holocaust and about how many people hid Jews in that day. And they were talking about the creative ways that they hid people, the places and homes and different uh factories and and underground and all kinds of places where just to save somebody's life, they'd go hide. And these weren't places of comfort. They weren't built for comfort. They were meant to keep you alive. These were places you could go, and they talked about how many of the places that they would spend sometimes twenty-three, four hours, maybe even days. sitting, you know, bunched up with their legs bent under them and or or or cross legged or even laying down a as as they were in times of danger and and and it was a hiding place. But they talked about those places like they were so special. You know why? Because they were. It's the place that kept them alive. If you didn't have a place to hide, you were hauled off and put to death. And so it became a almost the more I read about it, they're almost sacred places to those dear people. Because they were places where they hid out and were kept safe. Can I tell you something? There's a sacred place to me. It's not in a closet, it's not underground, it's in the Lord Jesus Christ. He is my hiding place. I don't fear the coming wrath of the Lamb, because the wrath of God's already been poured out on him on my behalf. And because he's took my judgment, he took my sin, he took my hell, he offered me his forgiveness. When the wrath of God falls, I'll have a hiding place in Jesus. Well, I heard a beautiful illustration of this out on the prairies. A great wildfire was burning. And a little mother hen got caught with all of her babies out on the prairie. And that fire burnt across through there and burnt her little body up And the farmer came to look at the damage, and when he did, he took his boot and just bumped the little body of that mother hen. She was just sitting there perfectly encased in that uh charcoal where she had been consumed. And when he did, all her little baby chicks went running around alive and well. That man was a saved man. He said, You know, I see now what Jesus has done for me He said, You know, Jesus was like that little mother hen. He took the burning fire of God's judgment on himself He took the wrath of God to the full, and I took my hiding place in him. And when the fire burn out, I'm free and forgiven, because Jesus is my hiding place. Can I plead with you tonight? Can I plead with you? Can I plead with you to run to Jesus Christ? I'm not asking you to join this church. I'm not asking you to come shake my hand. I'm not asking you to pray a prayer that I'll give you the words to. I'm not asking you to get in the waters of baptism. I'm asking you to turn to Jesus Christ. I'm asking you to run to the Lamb of God. There's salvation in no other place. Run to Him, find in Him the great refuge of your soul. Oh, it'll be a sweet place of rest. When you realize the judgment has begun. What a place. What a place. Let me read you the words of this old song. It was written by an English congregationalist pastor in the 1700s. It's called the hiding place. He writes these words, and just bear with me. I want to read all of them. Hail, sovereign love that first began. The scheme to rescue fallen man. Hail matchless free eternal grace, that gave my soul a hiding place. Against the God who rules the sky, I fought with hand uplifted high, despised the mention of his grace, too proud to seek a hiding place. But thus the eternal counsel ran. Almighty love arrested that man. I felt the arrows of distress, and I found I had no hiding place. Indignant justice stood in view, To Sinai 's fiery mouth I flew, But justice cried with a frowning face, This mountain is no hiding place Ere long a heavenly voice I heard, and mercy's angel form appeared, she led me on with placid peace to Jesus as my hiding place. Should storms of sevenfold thunder roll and shape the globe from pole to pole, no flaming bolt could daunt my face, for Jesus is my hiding place. On him almighty vengeance fell, that must have sunk a world to hell. He bore it for a chosen race, and thus became their hiding place. A few more rolling suns, at most, Will land me on Fair Canaan's coast Where I shall sing the song of grace and see my glorious hiding place. Well, I hope you got a hiding place. If you don't, you need to be saved. And the good news is you can be. You can be. Come to the Lord Jesus. There's a hiding place tonight. There's a hiding place. And dear believer, Oh, how sweet it is to think tonight I'm safe in the Lord Jesus Christ. He's my hiding place. And one day he's gonna take me by the hand. And I'll see that place he's gone to prepare. He's my hiding place. I'll see my hiding place. And praise him for a thousand years and more that he had room for me. There's room for you, dear friend. I don't know that Revelation has not helped me love him more When I see what's coming, I'm not so much worried about what's coming. I'm just thankful that I'm in Him. Would you stand with me, please? If you need to pray, these altars are open. Heavenly Father,