Song, trust his word. And I appreciate that. You pray for Miss Lydia. It's hard to believe that she'll graduate here in a few weeks And uh we're praying for her. The first Sunday, remember this, the first Sunday of June. We moved graduation ahead to get it off of the holiday weekend. And so the first Sunday of June , here in the evening service, we'll have the graduation exercises for Miss Lydia. And I know she's excited about that And so you pray for her in these last few weeks as she finishes up. I always marvel when the Lord puts something in your heart and then puts everything together around it. And uh I know I shouldn't uh be amazed, but I am. And it seems every time it happens I'm just amazed again and again. And I stand here amazed again tonight because Brother Dow had no clue what the Lord put in my heart. And to be quite honest with you, I had no clue until uh not many hours ago, just exactly what the Lord wanted for this evening meeting. But I want you to take your Bible and go to the book of Revelation with me. And I want to read beginning in chapter 19, verses 11 to 16. And the Lord helping me tonight, I want to preach on the coming king. I don't know if you paid attention during the singing of the hymns, but The hymns focused on the king. And so I want you to see something about the coming king. Revelation chapter 19, you can stand please and honor the word of God with us. Revelation chapter nineteen and verse number eleven. The Bible says, And I saw heaven opened. And behold a white horse, and he that sat upon him was called faithful and true. And in righteousness he doth judge and make war. His eyes were as the flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns, and he had a name written that no man knew but he himself And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood, and his name is called the Word of God. And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses. clothed in fine linen, white and clean, and out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron. And he treadeth the wine press of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. What I just read to you lies somewhere in the not so distant future. One day what we just read will happen. Just as sure as it's recorded in God's precious word. Let's pray together. Father, we bow in Jesus' name and thank you for the privilege that we have to gather here once more. Lord, we stand where no man can stand alone. Would you please help? Would you do what only you can do, Lord, in hearts and lives? Help us here this evening. We'll give you the glory. Open our eyes, Lord, to see just what is to come. And we ask this now in Jesus' mighty name. We love you and thank you for loving the likes of us and making a way for us to be saved. Thank you for the Lord Jesus, who shed his blood to cleanse us from sin. And Lord, as I think about the Lord hanging on the cross and paying my sin debt, I'm glad that won't be repeated ever again. I'm thankful, Lord, that the next time you come, you'll come as a mighty conquering king. And Lord, we say, even so, come, Lord Jesus. For it's in his powerful name we pray. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. I don't know if you follow such things, but yesterday Britain, the British Empire, crowned their new king. King Charles the Third, and a great deal of pomp and circumstance, he was officially uh crowned the king of the British Empire. It was interesting to me that in the Westminster Abbey, where these services or ceremony took place Every king or queen in the last nine hundred years has been crowned in that spot. King Charles III is the fortieth such king to be crowned there in the abbey And I'm not here to preach the monarchy, but you know as you think about and study, one of the things that are interesting that you may not know is that much of what goes on points to another king The Lord Jesus Christ. Right from the vesture that he wears to the words that he says, and to the the pledges and oaths that are exchanged. All speak of our Savior in some form or fashion. It's interesting, fascinating to me. But yet I'm speaking tonight of a king not who will sit on an earthly throne, but the king who's going to sit on heaven's throne. And I want you to think about this coming king. The Bible tells us here, notice in verse number 11, I saw heaven opened. Now you say, preacher, what is that? That's the second coming. And you've marked that down. That is the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. He said, I saw heaven open. And don't read through that too quick. Because a lot of times we read and we say, Oh, well heaven opened, he came down. Well, there's much more to that. Do you realize there are two other times in the Bible that heaven opened? And it was very consequential when that happened. The first time heaven opened was in Genesis chapter 7, verse number 11. And the Bible says the windows of heaven were opened. You say, what happened there? The flood. It was catastrophic. When the windows of heaven opened, then the earth was completely covered in water. And God destroyed the earth by flood. So the opening of the heaven there in Genesis 7 is catastrophic. In Luke chapter number three, the Lord Jesus is being baptized in the River Jordan, and verse number 21 of Luke 3 says, And the heaven was opened, and the Spirit of God came down. And here is, if you will, the opening of heaven for conversion. Not his, but ours. This was the commencement of the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. that would climax at the cross of Calvary. And it would be there Jesus would pay my sin death and make a way for me to get to heaven through his sacrificial work. This was the work of conversion and the windows of heaven opened. My what a time it must have been. Can you imagine what it would have been like to be standing there and see the Spirit as a dove come down and rest on Jesus, the Son of God? And hear the declaration, this is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased. What a day that must have been. The third time the windows of heaven open, or heaven opens, is here in Revelation 19. The idea here is that when heaven opens, it's the beginning of a new era. It's the beginning of a new time. In Genesis 7, it was the beginning of human government. In Luke chapter 3, it was setting the stage for the age of grace. And now in Revelation chapter 19, it's the beginning of the millennial reign of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so heaven opened. It's not a small thing when heaven opens up. When heaven opens up, something is about to happen on this earth. And that's exactly what is taking place in Revelation 19, 11, the second coming. But I want you to see something else in the text. I want you to see the seated monarch. Because the Bible goes on to say, and behold, a white horse, and he that sat upon him was called faithful and true. I want you to notice his mount, that white horse. Now, some would say that's figurative or symbolic. Or it's just merely speaking of something else. I believe that if the Bible makes uh literal sense than take it in a literal way. And trying to spiritualize and symbolize every little thing in the Word of God is going to rob you of many a blessing And I believe it's a literal, and and listen, you say, What if you're wrong? Well, I'm wrong. But i if I'm not, I'm not. So uh it's not a major thing. But the reality is is that he he he he the Bible says, behold a white horse You know, it's interesting that in the book of Revelation there's there are several horses that are mentioned. There's that pale horse of death, that red horse of famine. that black horse of of war. And and you see those horses and as they ride across this the the expanse of humanity, they pour out the judgment of God. Here is not coming a figurative or symbolic steed. Here is coming the steed upon which the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords is mounted. You say, well, what is the meaning of that? Well, I believe biblically generals and kings would ride horses But it's also a coronation, if you will, for the Lord Jesus, because remember in the in the life of our Lord when he entered Jerusalem, And they said, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna, Hosanna. What was he seated on? He was riding a little donkey. He was riding a little donkey that had never been ridden before. The donkey was a beast of burden. It was the poor man's transportation It was representative of the common man. It was a statement of humility. And here comes the king riding in a humble fashion. And I want to report to you that when he comes again, it won't be a little donkey, it'll be a mighty white horse. He's not coming in humility, he's coming in majesty. He's not going to come with a bowed head and a broken body over sin. He's going to come with many crowns on his head and with a sharp sword out of his mouth, and he's going to rule and he's going to reign. But notice the message here from the monarch. The Bible says that his name was called faithful and true. Faithful and true. Does that sound familiar to something you've read? Revelation chapter 3, as he reveals himself to the Laodicean church. He tells him to write and to write because these things are faithful and true. You see, it is a name that represents his ministry. And it represents who he is. He is faithful and true. In fact, study the Bible, and you know the two things you'll walk away from saying? He's faithful and he's true. When you read the Word of God, every Old Testament saint can rise up and say, I know this, he's faithful and he's true. Every New Testament believer at the end of their road can turn around and say, He's faithful and he's true. Everything he said he would do, he did. Everything he proclaimed to be, he is. He is faithful and true. And my friend, if you know him, if you know him even in the most casual of ways You know that he is faithful and true. You know, I look back over my life, and though I don't uh profess to be old, some days I feel it worse than perhaps I am. But I look back over these 50 years and I have to say this: God's been faithful and true. Though I failed him often, he's failed me never. He's true. He's reliable. He's trustworthy. My friend, he's faithful and true. And the declaration from heaven is Jesus appears as the heavens are open and the king is revealed. We find that he is faithful and he is true. But I want you to notice something else in the text, and that's the stated purpose. We see the second coming and the seated monarch, but now look at his stated purpose. The Bible says, and in righteousness he doth judge and make war. Now notice his motive in righteousness. And by the way, that's true of everything God does. God does it in righteousness. God does nothing unrighteous. God does nothing with the motive of anger or of temper. Everything God does, he does in a righteous way, because he's a righteous God. That means he makes no mistakes. He crosses no boundaries. He violates no standard of holiness. He in righteousness doth judge and make war. Now, my friend, listen, let the Bible paint the picture for you of who Jesus is. Don't let modern thinking corrupt your ideas about the Lord Jesus. If you listen to much modern thought about the person of Jesus Christ, it robs him of all of his righteousness. And it steals from him all of his majesty. And it makes him appear as if he's feeble and incapable. But not the Bible. The Word of God portrays for us a mighty God. The everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace Listen, it reveals to us one who in righteousness doth judge and make war. By the way, can you imagine the Lord Jesus going into the temple? Now think about this. The Lord Jesus went into the temple and he had made a cord, he made a whip. And because they had violated the purpose of the temple, he in righteous anger kicked over the tables, drove out the money changers? And made a declaration of authority, my house shall be called a house of prayer. You've made it a den of thieves. That's righteousness Righteousness does not turn a blind eye. Righteousness does not blink away when something wrong is done. Righteousness does not excuse evil. If you want to see what God thinks of evil, look at the bloody cross of Calvary. Look at the hill where Jesus died. All of the multiplied anger and wrath of God and judgment was poured out on his own son. because of the vileness of man's sin, and God showed us once and for all how dark it is to sin, how desperately evil and wicked sin is. Look at Calvary, linger around Calvary, and see what God thinks of sin. And know that one day he's coming in righteousness to judge and make war. Notice the manner here of his purpose. He's coming to judge. People that don't even read the Bible know this. Judge not that you be not judged. How many of you have had that quoted to you? And thrown back on you. Hey, don't judge. Well, I've got news for you. The Word of God is a judge. And the God of the Word is judge. And you know what that means? That word judge means to rule and pass judgment. Can I say it like this? When he comes, he's going to come and set in order everything that's wanting. Everything that's out of order. Do you ever look at the earth and the world around you and say, What in the world? We're in such a mess. Can I say to you tonight that we're in such a state of affairs that there's no human government able to set this thing right? We're so corrupt to the core that I don't care what we do as far as elected officials and and and I'm not look I'm not a a a person that's just a fatalist in saying that we ought not to do anything, but what I am saying is is that the answer is not going to be found there. Our culture is so so spiraling downhill so quickly that there's there's no rescue for this thing. You watch the morals of men degenerate, and you watch the minds of men be fur further corrupted as we go day by day, and you see all of the manifestation of evil That you wonder, can it get any worse and then it does? And you think, could it get any worse? And it does, and it just seems to be a bottomless pit of evil that's spewed out and poured out across the land But I've got news for you. There's going to be an abrupt halt. Brought to every bit of that. When the king comes, he's going to set this thing in order When the king comes, there's not going to be confusion of gender. When the king comes, there's not going to be a violation of God's moral righteousness. When the king comes, there's going to be no corruption of flesh. He's going to end it and set it in order. And this world's going to operate just like God intended for it to do. And what a day that's going to be I say to you, my friend the king is coming, and he in righteousness doth judge. But now look at that last part and make war. And make war. Verse 19, look on down in the text, and I saw the beast and the kings of the earth. And their armies gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse and against his army. Do you know what kind of clash this is going to be? This is going to be the culminations of centuries of warfare that's gone on unseen. Suddenly it'll appear. There's a battle raging right now. Do you know that? There's a battle raging in your heart. There's a battle raging in your mind. There's a battle raging unseen In this world, the Bible makes it very clear that there's a great warfare that's taking place between the powers of hell and the powers of God. And there's a battle that is raging, and all this is going to do is going to manifest itself on the earth. And there's going to be a great war. We call it the Battle of Armageddon. That final and great war. And all of it, can you imagine when the devil marshals all the forces of hell and all the powers that be? And they get by the way, the powers that be are on the wrong side. They're on the wrong side. There are no powers that be that are on the right side. Do you understand that? That'll help you understand what's going on in the world you're living in. The powers that be are on the wrong side. The powers that be are going to marshal together I can see, my friend, every nuclear weapon that exists and every powerful military unit is going to be assembled, and they're foolish enough to think that under the power of Satan They'll be able to bring down that man who sits on that white horse. But I've got news for you This war is going to end one way. There's not two options for it. There's not three. There's going to be one ending, and Jesus will come out victor. He's going to rule and he's going to listen to me, he's going to put down the armies of the enemy. We see his stated purpose. He's coming to judge in righteousness and to make war. But I want you to see something else, this staggering description. Starting in verse number 12, going down to verse number 16, the Bible reads like this: his eyes were as a flame of fire. Now I pray the Lord will help you to see this tonight. Someone asked a group of teenagers years ago, this was a uh in the early, maybe mid -90s. If they believe that God understood modern technology. And 78 % of those teenagers said, no, it's beyond him. And I thought, how sad. Here's a generation that does not know God. Here's a generation that thinks, you know what they think? God is some old, decrepit, bent over, white haired, broken down, barely making it? Held up, propped up, sort of being. That's not what I read here. My Bible says his aim his eyes were as a flame of fire. Those eyes that pierce through all of the facade, all of the fallacies of earth, those eyes that pierce through the darkness of men, those eyes that see all and know all. My friend, those eyes that, oh, can you imagine those eyes of fire? I was reading about Charles Finney, and uh they they said that man had very unusual eyes. Charles Finney was a Presbyterian evangelist out of upstate New York, and God used him. Some despise him and that's their prerogative, but The reality is God used him and many people were saved, and there are churches in existence today that were the fruit of his ministry. But they said he had the most unusual eyes. They said when he looked at you, he looked through you. They said he had piercing eyes. I read an account of him walking through a factory, and they said that when he walked by, he stopped and looked at a man, and as he walked away, that man said, It's as if God looked into my soul. Well, be that as it may, I've seen some I've seen some animals with weird eyes. And man when they look at you. If you've ever seen a coyote in the dark, unarmed, it's a weird feeling, you know. And you're looking at him and he's looking at you. We were camping one time or in a cabin back in the woods and the restroom was quite a ways away in another building. Not even fit to be a building. And so about two thirty in the morning I had to make my journey and I'm walking down that moonlit path and there he sits. And he wasn't one of these little scrawny looking uh eastern coyotes. He was one of those that had crossed with a wolf, and so he was bigger than a German shepherd and And he sat there and he looked at me. And I stopped and I looked at him. And I thought probably the way he was looking, I'd be better off go back to the cabin and forget what it was I came down there for. But I mean he had a look that just I I can s I went back, I was telling the fellow, said what'd you come by? I said, Because there's a coyote sitting down there. And uh he didn't seem too much bothered about me being there. And that bothered me too. But I'm telling you, there's a set of eyes going to look. By the way, he's going to look on you and he's going to look on me. And those eyes are going to look through all of the facade. You know what I see tonight? I I see you for who you profess to be. And you see me for what I profess to be. We see the outward scale, but there's a God in heaven that sees deeper than that. He sees you for what you are, lost or saved. He sees you as a follower of the Lord Jesus or one who is just simply wearing a mask. He sees these eyes of fire see. Notice what the Bible says. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many, many crowns. Many crowns. Why is he crowned with many crowns? He's crowned with many crowns because he's ruler over every kingdom. There's not a kingdom that he does not rule. There's not a kingdom that that he does not represent. There's not a kingdom that he's not going to reign over. He's got many crowns upon his head. Notice the Bible says he's got a name. And watch this, he had a name written that no man knew but he himself. That hidden name. I believe it was Ironside that said this represents his essential glory. That man can only know God as God reveals himself to man. The Bible tells me that except uh the the the Lord draw us, we cannot come. That there must be a revelation. Listen, my friend, if you see set out to discover God, you can't unless God reveals Himself to you. God must make himself known. And he makes himself known through the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. See, every work of God robs me of any measure of glory. I cannot say in my salvation that I had a hand in it. All I can say is God saved me by his marvelous grace. I can't boast of any work of my own because I'm not saved by the works of my righteousness. I'm saved by the mercies of God and by his grace. Look, he didn't I didn't go looking for him. He came looking for me. I was the lost sheep that had gone astray. But thank God for the glorious shepherd who went looking for that little lamb And found him and rescued him and brought him back. And to God be all the glory. My friend, I believe in heaven all the praises will be directed towards him. And he alone will get the glory. You'll notice not only a name, but he wore a garment, and the Bible says he was clothed, verse 13, clothed with a vesture dipped in blood. Notice that vesture dipped in blood. This is a vesture that speaks of the defeat of his enemies, the destruction of his enemy. But how did he defeat his enemy? How did he defeat the enemy? The Bible said in Genesis 3. 15 that a uh this seed would come and this seed would would would be bruised, yet he would break the head of the serpent. He would crush it. And then the crushing blood would flow. The blood that stains the vesture of our precious Lord is a reminder that the enemy was defeated way back yonder on the cross of Calvary. That his blood, my friend, is the conquering element in the life of his dear children. Never undervalue the blood of Christ Never take for granted the reality that he shed his blood that we might be saved. Oh, the Bible says they overcame by the blood of the Lamb and the word of their testimony. There is power. That song is not just a neat little song to sing. It's a Bible truth, a living truth. There is power in the blood of the Lamb. The power of that blood is demonstrated here as his vesture is dipped in blood. But then notice not only his garments, but we're given another name. Verse 13 says, And his name is called the Word of God. His name is called the Word of God. John chapter 1 and verse number 1 says, In the beginning was the Word. And the Word was made flesh. Read on down John chapter 1 verse 14, the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as that the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. That's the name that he bears. He is the Word of God. Now, here's a revelation of the living word. You have the written word. But one day we'll see the living word. There'll be a revelation of that living word. His name is the Word of God. Then you'll notice something else. The Bible goes on to say in verse number 15, and out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword. that with it he should smite the nations and shall he shall rule them with the rod of iron. Notice that that mouth as at that sword is un unleashed. It speaks of the unsparing judgment of God. That sword that'll come out of his mouth. By the way, I believe here the Bible's making it clear that all he'll do is speak. That's all he's going to do. That's all he's ever had to do. Let there be light. And there was light. Ezekiel said, He walked by me in my sin, and you know what he said? He said, Live. I lived. Or wasn't there a gentleman who said to Jesus, send the words and he'll be healed? Just send the word, just say the word. Listen, my friend, that's all he's ever had to do, and all the armies of of hell are going to marshal together with all the tanks and guns and all the ammunition that you can imagine And they're going to have it all trained towards heaven, and all God's gotta do is speak, and the blood's gonna flow to the horse's bridle. The battle will be over. That's the power. Now friend, don't don't you walk around here with your head hung down. Well all I've got's the Bible. Bless your little heart. You hold the mightiest thing that earth has ever had deposited in its possession. God's living word. You young men that believe God's called you to preach, never be ashamed to preach the Bible. Men don't need your opinion because it's probably like most people's armpits, it doesn't smell too good. And the reality is your opinion's not going to help anybody. Preach the word. This Bible is still the power. It has the power of God. It is the power of God. And my friend, this Bible still sets prisoners free, raises up the dead, cleanses the leper, saves the lost, changes lives. God's word is a powerful word. Just preach the word. You don't need to defend it, you need to declare it. I think we get caught up sometimes trying to we gotta protect it. My Bible says he's preserved it. I'd rather have his pres preservation than my protection any day. The reality is that God's blessed word is powerful. Preach the word You brother or sister, you talk to somebody about the Lord, preach the word. Share the word of God with them. Don't tell them you think this is how you go to heaven. Tell them what Jesus said. This is the way to go to heaven. You tell those co-workers and neighbors and loved ones and friends, you tell them that the way to heaven is found in the Word of God. Read John 3. 16. Read the scriptures. Tell them what the Bible says. Why? Because there's power in the Word. Look, this Bible can shine light and darkness. It's like a spotlight from heaven. I don't know why. Why are we so fascinated with bright headlights? Somebody said it's a sign of getting old. But why in the world do you have to see 950 miles out in front of you? Because the poor people coming towards you can't see, I mean two feet, because you're blinding everybody I don't know why it is we're fast, but I'm telling you right here something that shines brighter than the best headlight on the market. Here is something that shines, my friend, brighter than the greatest light ever created. It is the Word of God. And listen, friend, it'll shine, it'll shine and shine on. There's no dulling it and dimming it, nor is there any destruction of it. Multitudes have said, we'll annihilate the word. We'll destroy every copy. We'll burn it up. It'll be no more. But I've got news for you. Here we sit with the Bible in our lap and with the Bible on this pulpit, still saying what the Bible says. I've got news for you. Man will pass away. Heaven will pass away. Earth will pass away. But his word will not pass away. Lay hold of something eternal, church And know this, that God's word, that think about that. He's going to speak. And out of his mouth that sword will fly. And those enemies will fall destroyed in his presence. And then the Bible says this. Verse sixteen, He hath on his vesture, on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Here the royal vestments are revealed. His official title is given. I don't know if you watched any of the coronation. I watched it after the fact. But when they put that crown, they tell me that thing, that royal crown, weighs five pounds. That's why you don't walk around public with it. You imagine walking around with five more pounds on top of your head. They say that thing's so so studded with jewels that it's a five-pound weight. And they set it on his head. And the bishop took, is it seven steps back, I believe, which again represent the perfection of Christ. And said, God save the king. And the whole place lit up with God save the king. It was the official moment that he was Crown the king of the British Empire. And there was a lot of a lot of pomp around that. But there's going to come a day when a king will be crowned. No bishop will declare it. No crowd will echo it It'll be simply his own declaration as on his vesture is revealed, King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. He came the first time and was given a crown of thorns. He comes the next time. He'll wear a crown of glory. They nailed him to a tree and mocked him and cursed him and said, His blood be on us and our children. He comes again. It won't be his blood that will be shed. It'll be the blood of the enemy that'll flow. My friend, when I read this description, it makes my heart bow in awe. Of my Lord Jesus Christ. I said all of that to say this. That's the introduction. Don't panic, it's 6. 53, and I'm going to finish this message real quick. All of this is either delightful or dreadful. And you know what it depends on? Which side of the king? Which side of the king are you on? It all depends on where you stand with the king. Can you imagine being on the wrong side of the king? Can you imagine being an arch enemy of the king? You know, if you'll read the history of the monarchy, you'll read about kings and queens that rose to power, and when they rose to power, they had a vendetta, and their enemies were annihilated. Bloody Queen Mary comes to my mind. Man, I'll tell you, she wreaked havoc. And souls, lives were lost. But can you imagine when this king, what side of this king are you on? Are you friend or foe? Are you a follower or a rejector? Because what matters when this king's revealed? It's not that we understand all the imagery or all the explanation here. What matters is on what side of this king do I fall? Am I his friend or am I his foe? Because if I'm his foe, you know what awaits me? A certain devastation and destruction. There will come a day, my friend, when the Bible, when you read on about it in Revelation 21, Revelation 20, you read about the reality that there's going to be a separation of lost and saved. There's going to come a day where every man, woman, boy, girl, teenager, young adult who doesn't know the Lord Jesus, who has rejected him on this earth, will be cast into the lake of fire. That's what he's going to do with his foes. Can you imagine what it's going to be like on that dreadful day when the king treads the fierceness of the wrath of the Almighty of God? He treads that wine press, just like they walk and stamp those grapes He's going to walk and tread down his enemies. Listen, we're not talking about a weakling. We're not talking about a monarch that is mute. We're not talking about a monarch that has no might or military prowess. We're talking about the Almighty God of heaven. And there's going to come a day when he'll put down all of his foes. There's going to come a day when those that are foes of this great king, don't tell me this isn't serious business. This is the most serious thing in all the world. On which side of this king do you fall? Are you friend or are you foe? If you're foe, you're speeding towards destruction. My friend, you're you're running down that runway, and soon the day will come But oh my friend, if you're a friend of the king, it's delightful. Do you realize he says something here about you, you who are saved? It's right here in the Word of God, verse number fourteen, and the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses. Listen to this, clothed in fine linen, white and clean Who is that? That's the saved of all the ages. That's the redeemed of God. And my friend, he said, where are you? You're following him. You're the friend. You're not a foe. You're not down here getting ready to fight a battle. You're a friend who's following the king. And my friend, you and I are going to have front-row seats to what God's going to do on this earth. And we're going to see the unfolding of the greatest thing of all the ages as the king makes himself known as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords on this earth. And I don't know that that's going to be a silent time My Bible doesn't say it, but will you let me read from other places of the Word of God and throughout the book of Revelation? You'll find that every time the king and his subjects are viewed, save here They're worshiping. They're crying with loud voice. They're saying worthy is the Lamb that was slain They're saying hallelujah and they're giving glory to God and they're praising him. I don't know, but my friend, that when this unfolds, we'll be in the cheering section As the friend of the mighty king, and we'll be cured him on. Listen, David, David went down to the battle, and the Bible says he shouted for the battle. Go back there and read it. When he went down and ended up fighting Goliath, he was down there shouting for the battle. He was cheering for Israel. He was saying, get them, go after them, sick them. I don't know what he said. But he was cheering. That's what the Bible says. He was shouting for the battle And my friend, I don't think that heaven's going to be silent when the King of Kings speaks and annihilates the enemy. I think there's going to be a voice that'll raise as high as heaven itself and fill the glory world with praises to God because you know what you're watching? You're watching the demise of the wicked one, the devastation of the enemy, all the forces of hell that's fought and stood against the people Don't tell me you'll sat there like some dead toad on a log and just say, Oh well, God won. I'm not much on riding horses, but I'll tell you what, I hope I get a wild one then. Because I'll have a glorified body that can take it. And I hope he'll do circles and cartwheels throughout the clouds as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords puts down the enemy. Church, that day's coming. We're not reading fairy tales and we're not talking about fables. We're reading the Bible. The precious word of God. And the day's going to come that this will take place. Where will you fall? Friend, will you be a friend of the king? Or are you his foe? Nothing else matters. Let's just pause a moment. Nothing else matters. How I feel about it, how you feel about it, what you think, what I think, what's going on in your life and what's going on in my life. What's happening in our world and what's happening in the nations of the world, none of that matters. Here's what matters. Where do you stand with the king? Are you his friend? Are you his foe? Have you bowed the knee of subjection? Said, He's my Savior. Have you taken the gift of eternal life that only He can give you? See, it's not bound up in the hands of men. I can't give you eternal life. If I could, if I could, God knows my heart, if I could, I'd spend my last breaths doling it out. Until I drop dead. I'd give it to everyone I could find, but it's not in my hand to give. It's not in the hand of Marinath the Baptist Church. It's not in the hands of a water baptism. It's not in the hand of some religious exercise. It's in the hand of God. God alone gives eternal life. And my friends, you're either his friend or his foe. There's no three ways. There's no three options. There's no middle ground. You're either lost or you're saved. You're either in the family or you're not in the family. You either belong to God or you are still under the power of darkness. And the devil's your father. There's no two. Are you friend or foe? My friend, when this unfolds, when this episode is revealed, when all of this takes place, I wouldn't want to be his foe. I wouldn't want to stand before a king so majestic and so mighty and say, I'm your enemy. It's going to be to your eternal demise if you remain his foe. I'm telling you now on the authority of God's word, and with no joy in my heart having to say it. But on the authority of this book, if you're his foe when you leave this world. God has a place for you and it's called hell. And it's real. In fact, Jesus talked about it way more than he ever did about heaven. And he warned us not to go there? And he did a work so that I don't have to go there? And he made a way? My friend, listen, if you die without Christ, you literally have to walk over. The cross of Calvary and the grace of God. But oh, to be his friend Oh people around the world were their egos were puffed a little when they got an invitation to the crowning of King Charles. And I saw some things that were written, oh, we were invited. I was there. Um I have a friend who's in the government of Newfoundland in Labrador. And they were invited via a um a live feed to some exclusive things that took place leading up to the crowning of the king. And uh this man, this dear man, is a believer. He he's been born again. And Brother Todd uh was posting pictures and writing things and I thought, you know, that was that was a real special time for him. It was an honor to him. to be able to witness this and to be invited into the insides of what was going on, the behind the scenes things. But my friend, that pales in comparison. When the Lord says to you, Mount Up, there's business to take care of And you know the devil wants you to go home, feel sorry for yourself, think about how rough it is to be a Christian and hang your head and say, Oh, poor little old me. But my friend, you're a part of the royal family of heaven. And what's about to unfold on this earth, you're going to have a prime place. And be a part of it. Don't feel sorry for me for being a Christian. The best thing that ever happened to me is when Christ saved my lost soul. And the best is yet to come. Would you stand with me please? If you're in this building lost, I wouldn't leave that way. You don't have to. If you're listening to this broadcast and you're not a believer, let me urge you to believe on the Lord Jesus and be saved. Don't play games with your soul. But, dear believer, can I encourage you tonight to look up? Let the Word of God speak to your heart about where you are. Friend, listen, you have the privilege of being one of his children. Let you and I remember just what great things God has in store. And it may be you're not near as near the king as you ought to be. May God help us to get close. It may be that we've been playing fast and loose with a world that's quickly passing. Let's get our hearts right with God. My dear friend, can I urge you tonight as a Christian to be serious about being a Christian? Be an out-and-out Christian. Don't be a part-time. halftime, in and off in and out and off and on, sort of Christian. Let's be serious about this thing, because God was awful serious about our salvation when he gave his only begotten Son on our behalf. May the Lord help us tonight to do business with him, Father. We bow