Been worth coming to church to be reminded of these truths in song. And I appreciate that. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew chapter number 26. And when you find your place, I'm going to begin reading in verse 6 down to verse number 13. And I'm going to invite you to stand with me, if you would, please. Matthew chapter number 26, verse 6 to 13. The Bible reads now when Jesus was in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper. There came unto him a woman having an alabaster box of very precious ointment, import it on his head as he sat at meat. But when his disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose is this waste? For this ointment might have been sold for much and given to the poor. When Jesus understood it, he said unto them, Why trouble ye the woman? For she hath wrought a good work upon me. For ye have the poor always with you, but me ye have not always. For in that she hath poured this ointment on my body, she did it for my burial. Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, there shall also this that this woman hath done be told for a memorial of her. Isn't that a fascinating thing? Of all the things in our Bible we read, this is the only time the Lord said, I want a memorial made for her. I want you to remember this human being, of all the fascinating people of the New Testament, of all the unique characters in your Bible Here, this woman, he said, do this as a memorial for her. Father, we bow in Jesus' name and pray that you'll work. I thank you for the privilege to pray. I thank you for the precious word of God. I ask you, Lord, to speak as only you can to our hearts for your glory and our good And Lord, we'll praise you for what you do, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. In your Bible, there are at least six Marys, six ladies who bear the name Mary. But this particular one is called Mary of Bethany. We find her three times in the New Testament, and I'll say more about this later. All three times are very significant. This Mary of Bethany is the sister to both Martha and to Lazarus. And it was because of Lazarus, we read in the other Gospels, that so many people have filled this house. The Bible tells us, I believe it's John's account, that the house was full because of Lazarus. He was there, Lazarus who had been dead. He's now alive, and he's sitting at the table, and they're eating a meal together, and everyone's curious about why this man who was dead is now alive. Well the answer is Jesus. And by the way, if there's any dead men living this morning, it's still because of Jesus. He's still their answer and the reason. But he is there and the people are there, and the Bible says that the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might kill Lazarus. Because so many people believed on Jesus because of his testimony. Just by way of introduction, can I give you something about Mary here quickly? I want you to notice first what she knew. What she knew. Number one, she knew his importance. In verse 7, she used this alabaster box of precious ointment. Another writer says it's Spike. This was a gift that was made only for kings. It was a gift for royalty. It not only did she know his importance, but she knew his identity. The Bible says in verse 10 that she wrought a good work upon me. Mary was very clear in her understanding that Jesus was God. She offered him worship at his feet with this extravagant gift. And then not only did she know his importance, His identity, but she knew the inevitable. And from what I can gather as I study the Word of God, she's the only one who knew that he was about to die Although he had told them, he had preached, he had said, I'm going to be crucified, he had said it on numerous occasions. It seems Mary was the only one who knew that, and the only one who understood. Boy, she knew some real important things. But not only did I want you to see what she knew, but I want you to notice how she knew. How does she know this? Well, I think number one, because of what she had purposed in her heart. Luke said, She hath chosen the good part. You know, I said three times you see Mary Do you know where we find her all three times? At Jesus' feet. And Luke 10 says she's chosen that good part which shall not be taken away. Martha said, let's uh, Lord, tell her, tell my sister to come help us We're out here trying to get this meal ready and she's setting them there at your feet. Tell her to get up and get busy. And the Lord said, leave her alone. She's chosen the good part. She's at my feet where she needs to be. She's learning. And I believe she knew what she knew because of the purpose she made in her heart. I'm going to sit at his feet and learn everything that I can. Not only because of what she purposed, but I believe she knew what she knew because of her posture. You know when her brother died, you know what she did? She ran out of the house and she fell at his feet. And she said, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother Lazarus would not have died. You know, it it shows very clearly that she took all her problems and questions and cares And concerns and she put 'em at Jesus' feet. She knew where to go. She knew where to go to get help. Do you know where to go to get help? Do you have that posture? I'm afraid we're so full of ourselves and pride today that we don't bend our knees in prayer near enough. And here was the woman who knew there's answers at the feet of Jesus. And she fell there. That was her posture. But I find something else about her. I find her passion. You know what her passion was? She loved the Lord. In John chapter 12 and verse 3, she filled the house, it says, with the odor of her ointment. She filled the house. Everybody knew something special was taking place here. Mary loved the Lord and she revealed her love through this act of worship. And I believe that's how she knew what she knew. You've got to know him in a place of worship, not just in a place of mental assent. Far too many Christians are full of head knowledge and their hearts are cold and dead. You can know and not know. You can know all the things you think you know and you still not know. You can have a head full of all the knowledge there is to be had of the scriptures and of the Savior and still not know him like he wants to be known. You know where you know him? You know him at his feet in worship. Here she is, bowed before him in worship. Now that's what she knew and how she knew, but then let me just quickly remind you of what she did because of what she knew. What did she do with what she knew? Number one, she gave. She gave something very valuable. Mark says that it would as a year's worth of wages that this this thing uh was was so valuable and so expensive. Uh another writer says that it was perhaps her whole life savings wrapped up in one little place. She gave. You know you can give Without loving. You can just give. But you can't love without giving. Your love will move you to give. She gave I noticed something else about what she did with what she knew. She got low. Do you know the Bible says she got down at his feet? Now Mark Matthew says she poured it on his head. Uh Mark and John record for us that she poured it not only on his head but on his feet and took the hair, took her hair and then washed his feet or wiped his feet with her hair. Boy she humbled herself, didn't she? Grace does that, by the way. Knowledge puffeth up. Grace don't. Now grace will teach you something, but it won't puff you up. Knowledge will puff you up, but grace won't. Grace will make you ride low in the water, if you let me say it like that. I used to watch them fill those big shipping uh ships, those big uh vessels that would haul salt uh out to Montreal and different places and those things would come in empty and when they'd come into Pugwash Harbor, ah, they looked like they were three or four stories high. They sit high in the water because they didn't have anything in them And after being there 24 or 36 hours, that conveyor belt constantly pumping that salt in the belly of that ship, she went lower and lower and lower and lower. And when she went out of there, it almost looked like she'd take on water if the waves got too high. Why? She had something in her. She had something in her. You know a lot of these folks that ride hide no high in the water ain't got nothing in them But grace will put something in you that'll make you ride low in the water. Here she got low and humble. She let down her hair. And she did a lot of things. This isn't the message, but she let she she let down her hair. It was a symbol of of submission. It was something you didn't do in the culture of her day. But she did it at the feet of Jesus. Why? Because she wanted to get as low as she could before the Lord of her life. And then she got everybody's attention. What did she do with what she knew? She got everybody's attention on the Lord. She covered him with this ointment. Again, John said the house was filled with the odor of this ointment. And you know I'm told that Spike is a very point, it's very strong and powerful smell. It's got such an odor about it that you recognize it immediately. It stands out. It says, it says, that smells like a king. That was the use of that ointment. It was put on the kings and they used it. When you smelled it, you thought of royalty. It took your mind back to royalty. And so everybody in the house started going. The king's here. The king's here. And Josiah was little, I used to tell him I could hear him coming. He'd try to sneak up and he'd be, you know, clumping down the hall, and then he'd say, boo! And I was like, I heard you coming And he said, you couldn't hear me. I said I did. I said furthermore I could smell you. He thought I had a powerful sense of smell. He he would it would amazed me. He said, Did you really smell me? I said, yeah, I smelt you. I smelt you when you came out of your room I'd watch him go away shaking his little head. How do you smell me? Do you know? This you could smell. Everybody said, that's the king's smell. That's the key. And they started looking, and you know who was there? King Jesus was there. She got everybody's attention on the Lord. But now I want you to see this morning the message of the memorial. As we think about what she did, the Lord makes it very clear as to why she did what she did and what the message behind it is. I want you to note three things about the Lord in this passage, because really it is about Him. Yes, Mary did this, and God said, I want you to remember it, and everywhere the gospel 's preached, I want you to tell it. He said, I want you to make sure there's a memorial of what she did everywhere you preach the gospel. Must have been a mighty important thing. So what is the message? Number one, I want you to notice the message. Number one, God knows. God knows. God knows what's going on here. Let me remind you something here, that God knows what's happening with her. God knows what's going on here. Now a lot of people don't know. The fact is the disciples didn't know. The truth is the crowd didn't know. The honest assessment is nobody there really knew what was going on but Mary and Jesus. But he knows. I want to remind you this morning that he knows. Now this is a powerfully comforting and a terribly convicting truth. The Lord knows. The Lord knows. I read that text in Romans chapter 11, and you say, What does God know? He knows everything. There's nothing he doesn't know. Or the depths of the wisdom and the knowledge of God. You can't fathom it. It's like the deepest place of the ocean, you can't measure it. And it it defies even that because it goes beyond the comprehension of man. God knows. Can I just say to you this morning, dear misunderstood Christian, God knows? Listen to what they said. They said, what a waste. That's what the disciples said. What a waste. You're wasting that. God knows. They didn't understand what was going on here, but God still knows. Misunderstood. She was incredibly misunderstood. But yet God knows. Dear Saint, God knows. Misunderstood, child of God, God knows. The Bible not only tells us that he knows about the misunderstood, but he knows the maligned. Notice it says they had indignation. I heard one old country preacher say they had indigestion. Well the truth is they had indigestion, not in the belly, but in the heart. They were mad. They were upset with her. They were angry with her. They were maligned. She was maligned, but yet God knows. God knows. And then she was not only misunderstood and maligned, but she was misrepresented. You know, Judas pops up, by the way, he's the spokesman. Matthew says the disciples were mad or had indignation. That means all of them. But Judas was their spokesman. And Judas said, you could have sold that and give it to the poor. You could have taken that and given it to the poor. Do you know what he was saying in a sense, she don't care about the poor. She's not interested in the poor. He he he misrepresented her because, again, the misunderstanding and the malignment. But God knows. God knows. Christian, God knows. Dear mother, God knows. Father, God knows Dear brother, sister, God knows, and God knows. What a comfort it is that he knows Oh, he knew what was going on here, and he always knows what's going on. Have you ever just drawn this picture out in your head as you think about what happened here? Mary looks like a fool. In this great company of people. Here she's took this expensive ointment, poured it on the Lord, and then Judas looks like a hero. Why, you should have sold that and given it to the poor. And I'm sure if they'd been Baptists, everybody in there would have said, Amen. Right? But they're Jews. They're not Baptists, so they didn't say a word. But I'm sure they would have all been in agreement and said, Absolutely, Judas, good for you. I'm glad you spoke out. What a waste. And look, she still walks away from this situation. Not looking like the best person in the picture. Judas walks away from this looking as if he's the greatest spiritual man there ever was. But let me remind you, God knows. God knows. Church, God knows this morning. The Bible says He knows them that are His. He knows if you're saved or not. He knows those that are walking close to him. He knows the backslidden heart. He knows the rebel. He knows the the the the per the individual that that that is has purposed uh bitterness in their heart. God knows all of that. God knows. God knows. Judas, God knows. By the way, John records this, and John says this: that he did not care for the poor. But that he kept the bag. And the only reason he said what he said was because he was a thief and he took things out of the bag and he was upset he didn't get his cut. Judas, God knows. Hypocrite, God knows. You know, isn't it funny if people say hard-grown church run with hypocrites? Well, if you don't want to have contact with hypocrites, you just better find you a cave and get in it and then evacuate Because hypocrite, you're in the you're in the cave. You're never gonna get away. But listen to me, God knows God knows the hypocrite. God knows that gossip in mouth. God knows that individual that's running down folks behind their back. God knows all of that. God knows Judas about the thievery and the stealing and all of the ungod. God knows all of that. God sees it all. Beloved, you rest assured what God knows He's gonna do something about. Judas, at least for the time being, looked right good. He looked like the most spiritual man on the planet. He looked like he had done the right thing. And Mary just simply walks off of this scene somewhat. Maybe a bit discouraged or despond. We don't know. The Bible's very silent about what happened after this. But we do know this. God said, I want you to write it down. I want you to see it. I want you to know something. I know I know. God knows. But I want you to see something else in the text. God defends. Our Lord defends. In other words, our Lord comes to her rescue, so to speak. Now they didn't like him no more than they liked her, and really their hatred for her had to do everything with him. By the way, some folk will just hate you for your mere associations. They'll hate you for who you belong to. They'll hate you because you're the Lord's. Don't court favor with the world that's already crucified the Lord Jesus Christ. But they hated him, they hated her, but yet he comes to her defense. I want you to notice that number one, he stands up for her. He stands up for This is going on, and he knows, and it's not like he this is a revelation to him. He knows. He knows the thoughts and intents of men's hearts. He knows what's going on in their little minds, their little devious hearts. He knows what's running through their mind. And so he stands up for Church, can I say something, I I'd rather have him in my corner than anything? I'd rather have him in my corner than anyone He stood up for this dear woman. He stood up and said, and I love what he said as he speaks out. He said, Mark records it, let her alone. Stern language in the original. Let her alone. In other words, leave her be. Don't mess with her. She did what she could He spoke up. He silenced the critics. He simply, in one fell swoop, shut everyone's mouth. And by the way, God can still do that. God 's still able to silence all of the objectors and all of the uh deniers and all of the haters of God and his people. God and and by the way, he's going to do that one day. Romans says every man's mouth will be shut. That's what he said. Every man's mouth will be shut. You imagine that? There's so much talk in the world today. There's so much noise in this world we live in. Have you ever noticed that? I had my window open last night and I was trying to go to sleep and I heard people talking. Now all the people that live around me are What's the proper word? They go to bed with the chickens. They're of that generation, right? And I thought none of them should be out there talking unless something's wrong. And I and I got up and the way the the wind was coming last night through the woods, one of the neighbors on the other side, a bunch of kids were out there playing in the woods, playing tag or something in the dark. And I could hear them talking, I could hear their conversations, I could hear their words. Now though here it's 1230 at night. You ought not to be talking at that time of night. It's time to be quiet, amen. Maybe I'm getting a part of that quieter generation now, maybe. But here they were. Noise. By the way, everywhere you go, there's noise. You can't pump gas anymore. That pump playing a TV and making noise. I mean it's just everywhere you go there's noise. Friend, there's coming a glad day when God will silence all the noise There won't be a talking person on the planet. There won't be a person moving their mouth. Every mouth will be stopped. Every mouth will be shut, and every eye will be on the Lord, awaiting his verdict. God defends. I like what David wrote. Would you go back here with me? This verse has been a real encouragement to me over the years. Psalm 7. Go back to Psalm 7, Psalm number 7. Look what David said. Look down in verse number ten, please. Psalm seven, verse number ten says, My defense is of God. Which saveth the upright in heart. If you read that Psalm, David starts out by saying in verse 1, O Lord my God, in thee do I put my trust, save me from all them that persecute me and deliver me. Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces while there's none to deliver. And he goes on to cry out, Lord, help me, please. There That they're tearing me apart, they're trying to destroy me. Lord have mercy upon me. And then he comes to the conclusion, my defense is of God. Aren't you glad, child of God? You don't have to run around standing up for yourself. The Lord will do that. The Lord will defend his people. Our defense is of God. And my friend, if if not now, there's going to come a day. If not in this life, I think of the multitudes of martyrs who who who gave their uh their their neck to the sword or gave their body to the fire and and they they died at the hands of wicked and evil men. But yet there'll come a day when God will stand to their defense. In fact, we read in Revelation, we read very clearly that He honors those in a special way that have laid down their life for Him. I'm just saying God knows. And not only does God know, but God defends. He comes to the aid of his children. He said it would bet be better for you to have a mealstone hung around your neck and be thrown into the sea than to offend one of these little ones. God defends his own. My friends, you better be careful how you treat God's children. We need to be careful with our words and careful with our ways because God's people are still God's people. And he will defend his own. But then I want you to notice number three, not only does God know, and God defends, but I want you to see this: God rewards. And God's rewards are remarkable things. When we think about what's going on here, we realize that he says in verse 13, verily, verily. I say unto you, wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, there shall also this that this woman hath done be told for a memorial of her Have you ever thought about that? The Lord made a memorial for her. We make memorials for great people, don't we? We put plaques up and Sometimes buildings represent someone, or they are a memorial of that person's life, or we name certain facilities after an individual, and that's a memorial. The Lord said, everywhere you preach the gospel, I want you to tell her story. I want you to tell what she did. I want you to tell why she did it. I want you to tell all there is to know about why she did what she did. simply because it's a memorial unto her. I want you to remember something. God has a good way of building memorials Men often go crazy trying to build a memorial unto themselves. Let the Lord do it. Let the Lord be concerned about your legacy. I like what Paul said when he wrote 2 Corinthians 3 2. He said, Ye are our epistles. He's talking about those Corinthian Christians. Can I say it in this way? I don't think I'm hurting the scripture at all. You're our memorial. You you you're a and what is a memorial, but but it's something that outlived her. This is something, and boy, it sure did outlive her some 2,000 years. Here we are still talking about it. Here we are still trying to be obedient to this scripture that says everywhere you preach the gospel, you tell what she did. What a memorial What a memorial. And friend, listen, if you live your life for God, it will not be in vain. If you give yourself to the Lord Jesus and do His will, it will not be in vain. It may be that the greatest thing you do is raise someone who will outlive you. And that individual will carry forth the gospel or carry forth the work of God and do something greater than you ever could do. But listen, our memorial, that memorial, God said, I'm going to reward you with a memorial. Not only did he reward her with a memorial, but he rewarded her with a memory. Memories are beautiful things. Memories are awesome things. My preacher used to say memories are like fires to warm by on a cold winter night. Memories are precious things. And listen, when you think about Mary of Bethany, you think about her at Jesus' feet, you think about her pouring this ointment. You think about her being remembered by the Lord. What better way to have memories than all of your memories tied to the Lord Jesus Christ? By the way, he don't produce any bad memories. Got any memories you wish you could erase? Sure you do. Got any things you wish you could put out of your mind? Absolutely. But those associated with the Lord are the sweetest of memories you can have. He rewarded her with a memory. What a memory to be able to say, oh yes, what do you remember when? And listen, in heaven, do you know in eternity we still got our memory? In fact, we'll have a better memory than we got down here. The Bible tells me in hell they remembered. And in heaven we're going to know as we're known, so we'll have to have some sort of memory there in heaven. But imagine that memory. And perhaps, Lisa and Beloved, one day you and I will get to sit down and we'll say, hey Mary, tell us about that time. Over there at Simon's house, when you took that ointment and you put it on Jesus. And we'll get to hear firsthand account of that memory. Oh, listen, my friend, make sure that as you live your life for the Lord, that you don't discount the things God does as He rewards you with memories. I find that as time goes by those memories become more special. You remember the things God's done. You remember the ways he's worked. You remember the the moments he stepped in, those 11th hour deliverances. You remember how good God's been to you, how faithful God's been to you, how gracious God's been to you, and you rejoice over that memory. Don't think heaven's going to be anything less than what you enjoy right now. It'll be on a higher plane. But he rewarded her with the memory. And then let me just say this quickly. He rewarded her with something that mattered. He rewarded her with something that mattered. You know, everybody was up in arms about this little old jar of perfume Oh, it's expensive. We could have used it on the poor. We could have and and on and on and the whole talk was about the waste and And and what could have been and should have been and ought to be and all of that. But you know what? She did what mattered. Jesus said she did it from a burial. She knows it's coming. By the way, this Mary wasn't at the tomb preparing his body. This Mary wasn't involved in that. She had already done her part. This Mary, I believe, is the next Mary. We find her, and and she's one of the Marys that's rejoicing in the resurrection. Because I don't believe she just knew he was going to die. She believed that part. She also believed he's going to live again. She also believed that if they destroy this temple in three days, they'll raise it up again. She knew the whole story, and she's anticipating that. Let me just say quickly, she was rewarded with what matters. She knew what was important. I know in heaven the Bible talks about crowns and it talks about rewards. And I don't know all of the intricate details, and I don't think the Bible is very clear about all the intricate details. as to our rewards. It just simply says there will be rewards. But I know this, whatever rewards they are, they will matter. They will matter there like they've never mattered before. You might live down here not caring about rewards there. I hear people say silly things and they say, well, I don't care if I get a reward or not, just so long as I get there. You know what you're saying? I just want to be a loser Christian. I just I'm just glad to be on the team. Now who wants somebody like that playing on your team? You know, you go out to play. Don't don't you go play to win. If you play something, if you play or participate in some sport, you're there to give it your all. Don't accept the fact. In fact, that's what Paul said. He said, run to win. Run to win. Don't run just to finish the race. And you say, boy, that sounds awful humble. Sounds like a whole lot of hogwash to me, really. Uh humility's one thing, and I don't believe that's got anything to do with it. I believe that sometimes laziness can be couched in terms of humility. And that's what a lot of that is, just simple laziness You know people give their lives for a job and won't do won't lift a finger for the Lord. They'll work twelve, sixteen, eighteen. I mean they'll put in twenty-four They'll give everything they got for a job, and they won't hardly give a a little lifted finger for the Lord Jesus. You tell me what's going to matter when you come to die You tell me when you step into eternity what's going to be important. Is it going to be important what rank you held, what position you held, what money you made Oh, absolutely not. All that's going to burn up in the judgment. It's not going to matter two hoots or a row of pins. But I'll tell you what will matter, what you've done for Jesus Christ. If you've lived your life for him, that'll matter. If you gave yourself to him, that'll matter. What you did for the Lord Jesus, all that's gonna matter. All this stuff we get so worked up about down here don't matter. And I'm telling you, there ought to be some things we're living for that will matter when we face him. That's the reward she got. She lived for what mattered. She lived for what mattered. What a reward. The Lord will reward. The world will ridicule, but the Lord will reward. I'm sure in that little place called Bethany, maybe when Mary walked by, they said, There goes that woman. She wasted her life savings. On that man Jesus. Can you believe how insane? I mean, she should have put that up for a rainy day. She was, that woman must be lacking up here. Look at what she did And we say, oh, and and and listen, that that shame and reproach, I don't think there are a lot of people going by saying, Mary, what a good job. I don't believe there's a lot of people applauding Mary by the end of this day, but there was one there that got his attention, and there's one said she did what mattered. She did what mattered. And I believe there's going to come another day when we'll find out she did what mattered. I believe there'll come a day when the Lord honors and rewards his people. And we're going to see the Lord reward her. Because she did what mattered. You know what's going to matter up there? Not one thing Judah said. Not one thing those other disciples thought. Not one thing that crowd as they perhaps shamed her and she lived the rest of her life perhaps as not being known as the woman who wasted Oh no. Dear friend, listen to me. What'll matter there? Lord, what'd you think? Lord, were you pleased? Lord, if you're pleased, that's all that matters. What are you living for, brother, sister? It's awful easy to get in this old trap Trying to live for the things everybody else is living for. You young people hear me. If you're a younger person, there's a lot of pressure in this world to be something the world thinks you ought to be. And most of that's wrong. Most of it don't matter. It does not matter. You'll live your whole life and you'll realize you come to the end that you've just wasted your time and spun your wheels and did something that had absolutely no significance whatsoever. But please hear me today. God's given you an eternal book He's given you wisdom that comes from on high. He's given you the precious word of God and he says, Hey, child of God, go live for what matters You live your life for what's important. You put your eyes on the prize and press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Don't live for yourself and don't live for the world and don't live to fit in. Live to please the Lord. Because there's going to come a day you'll face him. You'll not face that boss at work. You'll not face that neighbor down the street. You'll not face that crowd uh that that that lives around you, your neighborhood. You'll not face that crowd. You'll not face your family. You're going to face the Lord. You're going to face the Lord. And it will matter then that you did what pleased him. Oh, what a memorial. I'm glad God put it in the book so I could learn something. I learn he knows. I learn he defends. And I learn he rewards. Can I ask you something? Do you know that Lord? Like Mary knew that Lord? Is he your Savior today? Have you trusted him as your personal Savior? I'm not asking what church you belong to if you've been baptized or anything like that. I'm asking you, has there been a place in time where you understood that you're lost? You're hopeless? You're condemned You're headed for a place called hell. Your sin has separated you from God. And the only hope, the only hope, is Jesus Christ. He died for your sin. He was buried. He rose again the third day. And he gives eternal life to whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord. Have you ever called on him in the saving way? Have you ever cried out, Have mercy on me, Lord and save me? Have you ever looked to Him to deliver you from your sin? If not, do it today, dear friend, before it's eternally too late. I don't believe it's an accident. You're hearing this message or even in this service If you're not saved, it may be your last warning. You must be born again. Now, dear Christian, what are you living for? We often let the world's values guide our ship. God help us. This world's headed for shipwreck. Don't follow them. Soon. Hey, Judas walked out of there. What a spiritual man. He cares about the poor. It's not long you see him hanging, dead. This world's headed for disaster. And you will be too if you follow it. What are you living for? Are you going to live your life for the Lord? God make up your mind. You're going to just go with the flow and go along the current and just do whatever comes easy or next? How about just say, ask for me in my house? You know Mary had said long time ago, I'm gonna sit at his feet as long as I can sit there. And I'm gonna get all I can get as long as I can be getting it And I'm going to learn from him all that I can learn, and I'm just going to follow him, and whatever uh whatever comes will come. And sure to the world she looked like a fool. Her sister said she Tell her to get up. She shouldn't be sitting here. That's the disciples. That's where they're supposed to be. She's supposed to be in here helping me. And the Lord said, let her be. She chose a good thing She's chosen a good thing. She's doing what's important. She's sitting here learning and listen. All her life it seemed the Lord's had to stand up for her. But I'll tell you there'll come a day when she faces the Lord. He'll stand up for her again. And all this crowd you're trying to please, some of them will be in hell, maybe all of them. All these people that you're so worried about what they think and and how they view you and all that, that that that crowd, listen, friend. That crowd's not going to matter when you face the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Dear Christian, get it settled in your heart. Live for what matters. Live to please the Lord. Listen, he's altogether lovely. He's worth, he's worth the pound of Steichnard. And a whole lot more. He's worth every extravagant sacrifice. He's worth everything we do. I believe it's Hudson Taylor. They they introduced him as this great servant. And he said, I'm just a little servant of an illustrious master. And all my sacrifices are nothing compared to what he's worth. Child of God, what are you living for? It ought to be Him. He saved you. He bought you He pardoned you. You belong to him. We're not our own. We're the Lord's. And he deserves. He deserves, I I told someone yesterday or Friday, I can't remember, D. O. Moody , priest in England, and they ridiculed him because of his speech. They said he's an ignorant man, he's an unlearned man. And uh as only the English can, they mocked him for his speech. He came to this country and they said He's an extravagant man. He's too passionate. He's too boisterous. He's too excited. He's too motivated. He's too much. He's just too So one crowd thought he was ignorant, and the other crowd thought he was extravagant, but God found him right useful Because God took D. L. Moody, that so-called ignorant man, and that so-called extravagant man, and he shook both continents for God and shook many a sinner out of the bush for Jesus. Many people were saved because he gave himself. Here's what he said, Lord, I've determined to give my humble human vest filled with the Holy Spirit. My humble human best. Don't he deserve that? Oh, your best don't have to be measured up to somebody else's, but it it ought to be your best. It was what she had, that's all she had, but it was what she had. That widow with two mites, that's all she had. But those two mites or that pound of Spike both were valuable in the eyes of God because they represented everything Everything they had. Have you given yourself that way to the Lord? Are you living that way for the Lord? Oh, learn something from this, dear lady. Learn that there are some things that are important, and there are things worth living your life for. Dear Christian, if you need to talk to him this morning, I'm going to urge you in a few minutes to find a place to pray. Seek God. Get it settled. Just nail it down before you leave the house that I'm going to live my life to please the Lord. And if you're not saved today, boy, I'd love to take my Bible and show you how you can be. You come during this invitation, and when you kneel, just lift a hand and somebody will join you, and they'll pray and answer questions or help you in some way. But let's live for what's important. Don't waste your life. Boy, I like what this poem, Only One Life Twill soon be passed. Here's what he said. C. T. Studd wrote those words. Only what's done for Christ will last. Just one life. That's all you got. You don't have two, you got one. Better live for what matters. Father help us now we pray