I want you to take your Bible, please, and go with me to the book of 1 Peter. 1 Peter chapter number 4. And when you find your place, I'll invite you to stand with me. I'm going to read two verses this morning. 1 Peter 4, verse 7 and verse 8. While you're finding that, let me read from the Old Testament, Proverbs 10 and 12. The Bible says, hatred stirreth up strife. But love covereth all sins. Won't you notice that last part? Love covereth all sins. First Peter chapter 4 and verse number 7 says, But the end Of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves. For charity shall cover the multitude of sins. I want us to pray and ask for the Lord's help this morning because We're coming to the close of our study that the Lord has seemingly put together. I didn't plan on preaching a series. I just asked the Lord each week to give me a text, and he sort of wove this thing together. in regards to our love. We talked about the Savior's love. And you can't you can't exhaust that subject. We're loved with an everlasting love. I'm glad the Bible tells me that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. I'm part of that world. You're part of that world. And what love that is. We're loved with an everlasting love. Then we studied the saints' love, how uh saved people have that same love in their heart. We're taught that we love him because he first loved us. And that's his work, his his doing. And we looked at the saints' love. And then last week we looked at the supremacy of love. Now God puts it at a high priority. And we're going to see that emphasized again today as we look at the subject of the strength of love. What's the practical outcome of this kind of love? Well, we've just read about it Because love covers a multitude of sin. Father, help us, please. I pray the Spirit of God would do his work. Our hearts would be tender and yielded. I pray, Lord, you'll save the lost soul. I pray you'll reclaim the backslidden in heart. I ask you to do for us what we can't do for ourselves And Lord, for these few minutes we have together, hide me behind the cross. Help me to lift up Jesus. May He and He alone be seen. And may the great need of every heart be met. And God will give you the glory because we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said Amen. You can be seated Just sort of by way of introduction, let me remind you that verse number eight starts with the word and And so that tells me that what's said in verse 7 is important and connected to what's going to be said here in verse number 8. And I want you to notice that phrase in verse 7, the end. of all things is at hand. The end of all things is at hand. In what way? Peter, what are you talking about? The end of all things is at hand. Well, according to the Word of God, the swiftness of time. Do you know the Bible says, what is your life? It asks the question, then gives the answer. What is your life? James 4. 14, it is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then what? It vanisheth away. The swiftness of time. The end of all things is at hand. The end of all things is before us. I mean, the reality is time's going faster than you can blink. And we're all living in that vapor. That's what this is. We're living in the vapor. Just a mere moment, if you will, on the on the history books. But not only do we see it in the swiftness of time passing, but I believe when he says the end of all things is at hand, he's talking about the sureness of death. It 's appointed unto men once to die. Hebrews 9 27. It's a sobering thought, and the reality is that we all got an appointment. We all have an appointment, and nobody knows when it is. Someone said it's one of those things that, you know, you may be late for a lot of appointments. Some folks couldn't be on time for appointment if they tried. And if they try they're later than if they don't try. But the truth is this isn't going to be an appointment you're late for. This unsettled set It's certain, it's done, it's pointed unto men wants to die. The end of all things is at hand. And then certainly the sureness or the seriousness of judgment, that verse goes on to say, and after this the judgment. The reality that that lies before us is we're going to give a reckoning, we're going to give an account, we're going to answer for our lives. The end of all things at hand. But I believe you could also say that that applies to the fact that the Lord Jesus is coming again. That that He is going to return and we don't know when, we don't know uh the date, but thank God it's coming. He's coming I shouldn't say it's coming. He's coming. That's the blessed hope of every child of God, the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. And we're anticipating that. We're looking for that. The end of all things is at hand. Now don't miss this, please. The end of all things is at hand, and then he says this, and above all things. Considering how short life is, considering how sure death is, considering how serious judgment is, considering how real the coming of Jesus is above all things. Have fervent charity among yourselves. For charity shall cover a multitude of sins. Would you look with me this morning first at the priority that it's given here? He says above all things. Now, I don't think I need to remind this crowd, but I will say that God never exaggerates. He don't exaggerate. You know, we we use our language in in awful loose ways We exaggerate. I was telling the young people in chapel this week, I said, you know, um we often say things that are not true. Fishermen are the are the biggest You know, my son was little and he'd catch a fish and he'd say he'd tell everybody, it was this big, and I'd take his hands and say, son. Your eyes are a little bit deceiving there, deceiving you, boy. The reality is that God don't exaggerate. He says above all things. Now, what does that mean? That means he's putting it way up here where it's important. It means that there's an emphasis made here about a truth that God wants to be exalted. Now, please listen. If you'll let the Bible do it for you, the Bible will balance you out. How many of you know there's a ditch on both sides of the road You can get in a ditch on the left side, you can get a ditch on the right side. But the Bible will keep you out of the ditches. The Bible's a bouncer. You know what messes us up? We do. Or our personality or our passions or other people will will will get us lopsided in the faith. I'm glad I got a Bible that's not lopsided. The Bible will balance you. The Bible will call you to what's important. And it says, above all things. How many of you believe God means what he says? He says above all things. So notice the priority that's given here. But then notice also the point that's made. Above all things, what? Have fervent charity. Have fervent charity. I want you to notice that he's pointing out what above all things What should be above all things. Now look, if you put anything above that, you're putting something above what God said to do. You're putting you say but preacher, I I I believe this ought to be above all. No, he says above all things have fervent charity Well, but preacher, my opinion is this needs to be. You know what the problem is? We think more of our opinion than God does. Above all things, have fervent charity. Notice that little adjective fervent. I love this. It literally means to it's an athletic term. It means to be strenuous. To strain , to stretch it out like a runner in a race or somebody who's competing for a prize. We first moved here, uh the Academy was playing for hockey down in the in the gymnasium And my son came home and he was so excited. He said, Dad, they play floor hockey here. I said, well, that's good. He was all thrilled that that's what they did. I said, is there anybody good at it? And he said, yeah. I said, well, i does anybody really play like they want to win? He said, Yeah. So I said, What's his name? You know I'm saying you were the he said, um, Lydia. Huh. I guess she'd cross checked him with a stick that day and he he learned He learned in a hurry that there was somebody as serious about winning, maybe more than he was. You know what she was doing when she got out there to play? She was fervent Huh? She was fervent. She wanted to win. Buddy, she was stretching her out. She was giving her best. Notice God didn't say just love halfway, just love some. Just love sorder or cold. No, no, no. He says have fervent. Fervent. This isn't a cold calculated thing. Then notice the action to this adjective here. It's the word charity. Now , sadly, as our language is diluted, the words that once meant something so clear are just a little bit cloudy. The word charity here, we often think of a charitable act, and it does come from this word. But it's the idea of that godlike love that moves you to action. Do you know it's the dominant word? It's not the preeminent word, but it's the dominant word of the New Testament. Do you know even in the culture of that day that word was not used very often? It was not until Jesus came and died and was buried and rose again and gave us a Bible, that that word charity come into force. And was used in culture and demonstrated in life. Why? Because those that that be that love him that begat, John said, will love those that are begotten. So in other words, this charity is a demonstration of a godlike love. It's energetic. It's ardent. It's a living thing. Paul told the Corinthians to follow after charity, 1 Corinthians 14, 1. That means pursue it He said, go after it. Listen, if some folks would pursue charity like they do contention, we'd have revival. If we'd go after charity like we go after trying to make sure we're right and everybody knows it, buddy, we would have a heaven-cent visitation in this old world. In 1 Corinthians 16, the Corinthians must have needed this. He said a lot about it. In fact, he gave a whole chapter defining what charity is, and that's in your bulletins this morning, by the way. But 1 Corinthians 16, 14, he concludes by saying, Let all your things be done with charity. Let all your things, it don't matter what things they are. Let all your things be done with charity. Let all the things that you do for God and for one another, whatever it is, let all your things be done with with charity. So we see that the point is made. Have fervent above all things. The end is at hand, above all things Have fervent charity. Then notice the people that are involved. He says, among yourselves. Now who is this? This is a particular group, obviously. He says, among yourselves. Go back up to verse 4 in this chapter and he'll tell us just who they are. He says, wherein they think it strange that you run not with them to the same excess of riot. Speaking evil of you. Who are these people? These are the changed people. People have been changed by the grace of God. People have been saved. He's and then he goes on down in verse 10 and says, As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. He's talking about the church here. He's talking about the believers. He's talking to Christians. Look, he's saying, hey, the people that are to have fervent charity among themselves are the people of God. That's where it begins. That's where the emphasis here is being made. The new birth makes new people with new life and new love when they get born again. I read somewhere communism boasted we could put a new suit of clothes on every man. And a very wise Christian who was preaching the gospel said Yes, but Jesus can put a new man in every suit. He can make a new creature out of you. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, but all things become new. He makes us brand new. Now he'll take you like you are. Aren't you glad for that? My my my if he didn't take us like we were, we'd be in trouble. I'm glad the Lord didn't come along and say, now when you clean your act up, I'll take you. Or if you get straightened out, I'll come I'll save you. No, I'm glad He come and took me in all my sin. He took me in all of my brokenness, hopelessness, helplessness. He took me like I was. But church, he will not leave me like he found me. How do you save a drowning man and let him drown? How is it that you bring a man up out of the water and and I mean just pull him out and then Drop him right back into the same stuff he's drowned him in. Isn't that cruel? Well God wouldn't do that. He don't do that. When he saves you, he changes you. He makes you brand new. You don't have to go and and learn how to be a Christian. Now you've got some learning to do, you got some growing to do. But understand what I'm trying to say. You've got a new heart. God's put something new in you. You've got desires that He's birthed. He's put them there If you're saved, there's evidence that you're saved. There's a transformed life. There's the the the working of God's Spirit inside of you. My friend who was saved there in Nova Scotia, he said to me, uh I told you the t the story, I believe, the first of the month when he got saved. He he he promised he'd go to church at Christmas. He got saved, what, two, three weeks before Christmas? And he said, I'll go to church on Christmas. But but he noticed as the days ticked by, he wanted to go now. So after that first week passed, he called the pastor and he said, Is it okay if I come before Christmas? He said, Alan, of course you've come to church before Christmas. He said, Well, I know I said I'd come at Christmas. I didn't know if that's just when you let anybody come. He said, I need to go. And you know, that desire wasn't generated because he had somebody nagging at him That desire didn't was not generated because he felt the pressure of the ecclesiastical authorities coming down on his neck. No, he had an inward desire that was there because God had saved him and put that desire. You know why you read your Bible? You read your Bible the same reason you ate your breakfast this morning. I hope you had breakfast. If not, I hope you packed a dinner. Brought you lunch. But but you've got an inward desire. You've got an appetite I mean, isn't it something I don't know, maybe the way a lot of us live, we don't wake up hungry, but boy, when you wake up hungry And there's nothing better than waking up hungry and then smelling something that's fixing to fix that hunger. Amen. Right? But but the truth of the matter is you you don't go and have to take classes to learn how to be hungry When a little baby's born, when that little baby comes into this earth, onto this earth, when that little thing is born, it is born with an appetite. It desires that milk. And listen, the Bible says as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that you may grow thereby. We've got a desire. You didn't put that there. God did. It's evidence of the new birth. And another evidence of this new birth is the reality that we we read it when we started the service. We know that we pass from death unto life because we love the brethren. God put that in your heart. I'm going to say this very plainly. If you don't have that in your heart, you better get to doing some business with God. And find out why. Find out what's missing. If all your heart's full of is hate, And anger towards the people of God, you need to make sure you know the God of those people. He said, by this, men are going to know it. You're going to bear a mark. It's going to be stamped. You don't have to carry a King James Bible as big as a coffee table. You don't have to wear a t-shirt that says I follow Jesus. You've just got to know him, and if you know him, he's going to put some stuff in your heart that'll be a red flag saying, here they are, this is mine. These belong to me. By this, by this, shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another. Now we come to the message. Look at the purpose that's explained. Here's the message. And above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves. Here's the purpose. For charity shall cover the multitude of sin. It'll cover it. Love will cover it. Now let me be real quick to say what this is not. This is not the covering of sin that needs to be dealt with. That's not what that is It's not the hiding of wrongdoing, man. I'll tell you what, God's people have brought much shame on our precious Lord by trying to hide things that need to be dealt with. You don't put a band-aid on cancer. You get a scaffold, go under the knife, take that thing out. You're not going to get better till you do. You got to deal with it. He's not saying that we just cover up our sin, that we just hide sin, that we and I'll tell you something else it's not saying it's not saying that we turn a blind eye. It's kind of, well, I I didn't see that, you know. I'm not looking. That's not what he's saying. Oh no, not at all, church. Not at all. I read in my Bible where if someone falls, the scripture teaches me, ye which are spiritual, restore such and one. And by the way, you can't restore without confrontation. You can't restore without dealing with that. You've got to address it. You've got to come to it. You've got to say, look , this needs to be dealt with. It needs to be addressed. That's not what he's saying. But what he is saying here is giving God's people a way to honor him amid the reality of our feebleness. Paul said it like this. He said, I know in my flesh, Romans 7. Here's what I know: I know in my flesh there dwelleth no good thing. Not a good thing in my flesh. Do you know the problem is we're saved heading to heaven, but my flesh ain't saved. I'm going to be transformed, thank God, one of these days. But until then, I've got a flesh to deal with. Not only do I have flesh to deal with, but I've got a fight to deal with. We don't wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers. Listen There's an enemy that we must contend with. And we've got something else. We've got a fallen nature. That fallen nature is a part of every one of us. I told you I I have a friend I had a friend. He's in heaven. Still have a friend. But that dear brother believed in the eradication of the old man. And he was very convinced that his old nature was crucified completely, that he no longer had sin in him, and he could no longer sin. He did not sin. And he and I were working on his porch one day and I watched him hit his finger and I'm gonna tell you something, he sinned. And I I was smart enough to keep my mouth shut and not point finger. That's not my job. But a thought in my heart, my brother, your nature is showing that dead thing sticking out Because the truth is we all have a sin nature. Call it what you want to call it, the adamic nature, the old nature, the old man, the fallen nature. It's all the same thing. It's a part of who and what we are, and we'll be until Jesus comes. Thank God when he comes, he's going to deal with that too. And I'm glad my old nature's not going to go with me to glory Thank God I'm going to be transformed. When I see him I shall be like him. No longer will I battle the flesh, and no longer will I be in the fight, and no longer will I deal with my fallen nature. Thank God I'll be free, free, free at last. Thank God for that. Now, church, please hear me this morning. You and I are frail folks. We'd just be honest this morning and admit it. There's not a one of us have anything to crow about. Not a one of us. Not a one of us. I don't know how much you know about chickens, but little roosters crow a whole lot more than the big ones. And they don't have nothing to crow about. I've had him. I've had a little rooster. He's that big. He was the biggest mouth thing I ever had. His crow wasn't that loud. It was good. That's the only thing that kept him out of the pot. But he would he would he would crow and he'd crow all the time. You couldn't walk near him, he'd start crowing. And I've had big roosters, had roosters, you know tall and big and large and and you know they'll crow at the start of the day and then they don't normally have a whole lot more to say after that. I'm just saying it's often those small individuals that crow the most, who don't realize they have nothing to crow about. Look, nobody here has anything to put their thumbs in their spiritual suspenders and boast about. If you're saved, it's by grace. If you're right with God, it's through the mercy of God. If you're going to God's good heaven, it's on his bill. He put the bill. He paid the price. Listen, everything I boast of today is summed up. I glory in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. The only thing we can brag about's him. That's it, just him. But we're awful frail. And because we're frail Love covers a multitude of sin. Love covers it By the way, can I remind you the love of God not only covered my sin but canceled it out. When Christ died on the cross, when he shed his blood, when he saved me by his grace, his love. Remember what John said when they saw Jesus come into the River Jordan? He said, Behold the Lamb of God, which Taketh away the sin of the world. That's what he did. He took it away. He don't just cover it up and say, I'll deal with it later. That's Old Testament teaching. It was covered then. When Jesus died, he took it away. He was nailed on the cross, buried. The handwriting of ordinances, the law that you've broken and I've broken. was nailed to that cross. And and when he come down, he pulled the paper off and took it with him and went into the tomb and rose again the third day. And my sins, by the way When you put all this together, never really thought of it like this, but when you put it all together, my sins are not in the sea of God's forgetfulness. He dug them up, took them away. They're gone. You could find them if they were there. They're not there. He took them away. Jesus took them away. They exist no more. Thank God for that. That's Calvary's love. Nothing but love held him on that cross. There's not a nail made that could hold the Son of God there. It's not a battalion of soldiers. It's not a multitude of soldiers that could have made Jesus stay on that cross. There's not a devil in hell big enough to make him stay on the cross. But his deep, great, big love, heart of heart, heart of love for sinners like you and me made him hang there, bleed there, die there, pay the sin debt there, conquer death, hell, and the grave, get up from there, and live forevermore. It's God's love that brought Calvary forth. Love covers a multitude of sins. Now, between here and home Love covers a multitude of sins. Being frail folk like we are There's got to be something that strengthens our fellowship so that amidst our frailness, amidst our feebleness, amidst our failings, there's something that'll cover those sins. You say, what does it mean? What are we talking about? Make it practical. Love covers a multitude of sins. Here's what it means: it means forgiveness. Means forgiveness. Well you go over here in 2 Corinthians. Look at this real quick with me. 2 Corinthians chapter number 2. 2 Corinthians chapter number 2 and look at verse 6. I'm talking about love covering a multitude of sins. What does it look like? It looks like forgiveness. Sufficient to such a man is the punishment which was afflicted of many. So that contrary wise, listen to this Ye ought rather to forgive him and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow. Here is an assembly that had to deal with sin. You know the sin. The man sinned here in the Word of God. He was dealt with by the church, and here's what the Bible says. He got right with God, and when he got right with God, Paul had to write again and say, forgive the man. Forgive him. Show him forgiveness. By the way, forgiveness doesn't put the stamp of approval on behavior. Don't do that. But it does pardon the iniquity. Forgives. I wonder how many people have got their heart all tied up this morning. Because of this one sin of unforgiveness. Somebody did wrong. I'm going to tell you something. You hang around frail people, you're going to witness frail things. Somebody's gonna hurt your feelings. Somebody's gonna say something they shouldn't Somebody's going to do things you ought not to do. What are you going to do? You're going to bear that thing for the rest of your life? Do you know who's miserable? Likely not them A lot of times I've found people don't even know that they've done something wrong. They they don't know maybe the depth of the of what they said or uh the the the pain or or or or what they've done. They don't may they may not even know it. They it may not have been intentional at all. And and if you are not a good forgiver, you know what'll happen? You'll walk around live the rest of your life all out of sorts, upset, not right with God, unable to get victory, unable to go forward. Why? Because you will not forgive. Paul said, that man's dealt with his sin. Now you forgive him. You forgive that man. You forgive him, and look at this. He said, comfort him. You know what that means? That means show him he's been forgiven. You know what we do, and this is awful carnal of us, but we say, I'll forgive him, but I'll never forget. You know what that means? That means you're going to hold it over his head the rest of his life. That's not right, brother, sister. There's no, you can't grow in that kind of atmosphere. You can't flourish as a Christian in that kind of atmosphere. Well, I I I believe I I I believe we need to uh get a pound of flesh. You let God handle the pound of flesh. Our weights are off balance anyway. A lot of times we're all torn up about a speck and we're forgetting the moats. And we're inflicting, we're inflicting some judgment like we're dealing with a moat, and reality we're dealing with a speck. Forgive. Love covers a multitude of sins. What does it look like? It looks like forgiveness Peter said, How many times do I forgive my brother? I mean, if he sins against me, what do I do? And Jesus said, seven times seventy. Doesn't mean you count 490 and say I'm done. It was a number that represented to the Jewish people in the Hebrew language It represented infinity. It literally means you forgive and keep on forgiving, and it bore with it the idea of a readiness to forgive, that you're ready to forgive before the offense is ever committed. How unlike our society today. Let me say this: how unlike most of our churches today. We're ready to hold grudges before anything wrong's ever been done. And God says, I want you to be forgiving. You say, preacher, you don't know what I've been through. I don't need to know, and I'm not discounting it. But please hear me out. The Bible does never take into consideration concerning what we've done. It gives us the principle of what we ought to do. And what we ought to do is forgive. We ought to forgive. Now I've been hanging around Baptists my whole life. My mother took me to church nine months before I ever discovered America. And from that point on, been in the house of God. I pastored thirty years, been preaching beyond that. But know this God 's people are much like every other people in that they're frail and they fail You got co-workers that you work with, they hurt your feelings, they say mean things, they're unthoughtful, they're inconsiderate. Well, don't be surprised if you go to church with the same sort of folk. Radder learn to forgive There are good men who ought to be behind a pulpit preaching today and don't. They can't. Because they can't forgive. Let me rephrase that. They won't forgive. They got hurt. They got hurt. God's people be mean. How many of you know that? If you don't, come spend six months with me. I'm not pointing to anything in particular. I'm just saying God's people can be mean. God's people can be thoughtless and inconsiderate. There can be hardness. And listen, and they'll they'll hurt your feelings just like anybody else. They'll do you wrong just like anybody else. But here's the victory, here's the key. We forgive. Love covers a multitude of sins. Forgiveness is not a feeling, church. Forgiveness is a choice we make on the truth of God's word. How can I not forgive when God's forgiven me so much? How can I not forgive when I bow my head and say, Lord, you said if I would confess my sin, you're faithful and just to forgive my sin and to cleanse me from all unrighteousness. And you know what he does? He puts my sin under the blood. He washes it all away. He makes me brand new again. How can I hold in my heart against someone something that God in mercy is willing and ready to forgive? We've got to forgive, church. That's what it looks like. It looks like forgiveness. Love covers the multitude of sins. Let me say this quickly. It also looks like patience. Patience. I don't have the time. I need to get through this, but I want you to notice here in Romans, just go back there and read it. He talks about dealing with the weaker brother. And he says you need to be charitable to the weaker brother and be patient with him. Be patient with him. In other words, you need to let some folk grow that need to grow. And don't you hurry them up to grow up. Let them get straightened out. Let God straighten them out. Listen, we're living in a culture that's more heathen than it is Christian. It's where we're at. We're a heat we're we talk about being a Christian nation. We're about we're a borderline heathen nation. And we we follow heathen practices and And people do things and and live in such a way. And their bodies and their minds and their lifestyles bear the marks. Bear the marks. And God saves people like that. Aren't you glad? God's grace can read- Listen, God's grace don't know limitations. Now we say, Well, that person never be saved. Well, just hold on. I love it when the Lord saves them and says, See, I'm the one who saves them, not you God can save anybody anywhere anytime he so chooses because he's the Lord. Don't write somebody off just because of the lifestyle they live. God's able to reach down into the deep depths of the gutter and dig them out and wash them off and make new creatures out of them. But they got a lot of stuff to deal with. A lot of you have been saved a long time. Some of you have been raised in church. And the problem is we want people to think just like we think because they think that's the only way to think. And we forget all this might be brand new. And you better be patient. Let me go on record. If God in mercy saves someone, I'm going to urge you, I'm going to do it nicely once, and then it won't be after. But I'm going to urge you, be kind to them. Be patient with them. Let God clean them up. Not your job. Can I say it again? It's not your job. I'm gonna straighten them out. They're not right. You know who needs to straighten out? You do. You're not right. You're not right. Let God do it. I got a good friend. He he uh he and I still talk from time to time. God saved him off the streets up here in New York City. He was in a gang up there. Uh young man, his mother was Puerto Rican, his his uh Father was born here in the United States and he got involved in gang God saved him, gloriously saved him. And he got under the teaching of a man who was very adamant about straightening everybody up. And so this young man went home one day, heard the man preaching, and he went home and went through his wife's clothes and threw everything away he didn't approve of. You say, where is he at today? You know what? I say this with a broken heart, because I pray for him and her. But he's not married anymore. He's divorced. He's going to straighten her out. I'm going to tell you something. I can't straighten me out. Let alone you I need God the Holy Ghost. I need the Spirit of God to say, hey boy, right here. You need to deal with this, son I need God the Holy Ghost to call me on car. Because I'll tell you what, all I see is peripheral. I don't see the real root of the issue, but God always does. And that's where the Holy Ghost will always take you. He'll take you to the root. What happens when we start trying to straighten everything up on the outside? We neglect the inside. And if we're somewhat successful, you know what we do? We create a Pharisee. A self-righteous Pharisee who's got it all together out here and everything's falling apart in here. God don't ever work that way. You don't go out here and build a house by starting with the roof. You start with the foundation and work your way up. And so does the Lord. He starts in the heart. He works in the heart and he works his way out. Looks like being patient. He wrote a whole chapter there in Romans chapter 14 about dealing with that weaker brother. If he's offended by meat, don't eat the meat. If you're going to make him fall by what you do because of your liberties, don't take that liberty. Don't exercise that liberty. You can find your liberties for his well-being. Why? Because you've got to be patient Folks, there are some people that have been saved a while and they're still weak. We've got to be patient. How many of you know children don't all grow at the same pace? They grow a different rate. You know, here's what's funny in our house. When Sarah was born, we thought sh she was off the charts tall until she was eight years old. And they said she's going to be a very tall child. Well, everybody knows Sari. Sweet little Sari's not taller hardly than a Fourth grader, I guess, maybe or fifth grader. She's a little thing. She just quit growing. This may surprise you too. When Josiah was born, he was he was very small, and he stayed small for quite some time. They said he's going to be uh sort of an undersized child. We all know the end of that story. But the reality is they grow at a different rate. They grew at a different rate. She grew quickly and then stopped. And then he lagged and bless his heart, he ain't lagging no more. He's got her in jet drive. He's moving on. Some of God's people struggle and they grow at such slow pace. And you know what we do? We get impatient And we say, what's wrong with him? He's been coming to church for five years. And we get after him. And you know what we forget? Maybe he's growing at a different rate. I'm not excusing immaturity, but I am saying that you know what God's people do? If love covers the multitude of sins, we've got to be patient. God be patient. I'll tell you what, I'm glad God's patient with me. There are times, there are times I've been saved over 40 years, and there are times I feel like I'm a kindergartner. Sometimes I don't even feel like I've started school yet. And there are times I get on my knees and say, God, I thank you for being patient with me. I appreciate you, Lord, being patient. We've got to be patient. That's what love covering a multitude of sins looks like. One more and I'm done. It looks like forgetting the past. What does this mean? Love covers a multitude of sins. It it it means that we forget the past. Philippians 3. 13, Paul wrote these words, forgetting those things which are behind If all you see is what someone once was, you're not right with God. Let me ask you, are you not glad God got you over your past? And your past is past. Huh? I I'm sure every one of us here that you could go back and and and and and they could say, uh remember, remember? Call your name, remember. Remember when? Remember what? Remember who? Remember all that? I'm glad I got a God who blocks that out of his memory. When he put it under the blood and washed my sin away, he forget. And isn't that amazing thing? The omniscient God Chooses to forgive. And if you and I are going to cover a multitude of sins, we've got to forgive. The longer we keep company together, the more you gotta do that I really believe a lot of times in a church with a lot of history, the big hindrance is that we just can't forget Can't forget. Thirty years ago. Why forty years ago he said he did, he was on, he I'll tell you what, I'm glad I'm not what I was forty years ago. Aren't you? And and and to and to not forget is a sin against God's people. Forgetting. Don't you know there were some Christians had to do some forgetting to get any good out of the Apostle Paul's ministry? Could have been, it could have been, some of the people he preached to, he was the reason that woman was a widow. He was the reason that family was torn apart. And he gave us the bulk of our New Testament. And can you imagine sitting down trying to get something out of God's word? A a letter that Paul's written and you being harbored in your heart all that that unforgiveness? Hey, them boys that were killed down in Ecuador, those missionaries That family, I mean, say what you will. I don't agree with a lot of their direction and doctrine. But I'll tell you what they did show us. They showed us what it's like to forgive and to forget and go forward and carry the gospel. And they took the gospel to a people, that dear wife took the gospel, and others took the gospel to those people that were responsible for the death of the dearest ones in their lives. And took the gospel's message. You know how they did it? They chose to forget. It chose to forget. And you know, we sit here and we hold grudges because somebody said something mean or somebody did something wrong, and and we we say, Lord, would you please send revival? And the Lord says, I will when you forget. Lord, would you please work in my life? I will when you forget. We're at an impasse. We're up against the wall, and we can't go beyond that point. Why? Because we will not forget Look, when you come into this church and see somebody and all you can see is what they did so many years ago or even so many months ago or weeks ago, it don't matter the time, but if all you can do is see that, then dear brother, sister, help oh God help you. Get that thing right. Get right with God. Ask the Lord to help you to be obedient to this. Love covers a multitude of sins. How many of you have been married thirty plus years? Raise your hand. That's a bunch of you. Have you had to do some forgetting? Maybe I ought to say it like this. Do you need to do some forgetting? Be a whole lot happier house if those pasts were forgotten. See, the lie of the devil is you can't get over your past. The truth of the grace of God is you can. God can bring you past your past. God can deliver you from what you were. God can make you different than who you were. The grace of God, oh thank God for his grace. No wonder people without Jesus are hopeless today. But those that know him and have the grace of God, oh friend, listen. Recognize that God's grace can get you beyond all of that. And then even after, I'm talking about even after you're saved and you fail and fall short, I'm glad God's grace can still restore Transform your life. Love covers. That's the strength of love. I'm going to tell you something. You let a people live this thing out And you get a bond built that hell itself can't pull apart. You get some strength. You do that in your home, you've got strength there. Hey, how many of you know you did not marry a perfect person? Everybody's scared to death answer. I can just feel I felt the tension right there, man. That was How many of you know your spouse didn't marry a perfect person? Let's do it that way. Right? It's easier to be honest about yourself. Amen, brother. A very honest brother. But aren't you glad for that grace that's that's shown again and again and again that forgives, that forgets A grace that's patient. Oh, church, we need it. You want to see this church be strong? Charity covers a multitude of sins. If you're in this building or listening to this broadcast and you've never been saved, I want to tell you once more about love that will forgive your sin, not just cover it, but remove it entirely. It's the love that Jesus showed for you when he died on the cross for your sin. And he was buried that third day and unburied and then three days and rose again on the third day. And he lives forever, and he says that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. He'll save you in his love. You know he why he wants to save you? Because he loves you. And dear brother or sister, if you're a a believer and God spoke to your heart, maybe you need to forgive something Maybe God said, I want you to be a little more patient right here. Maybe you need to forget some things. Maybe we just need to pray, Lord, help me in all those areas, because I need this kind of love in my heart from a church family. For my wife, for my husband, for my children. And above all things. Do you see now why he said it? Above all, you put it up here. The end is at hand. It's coming close. I'll tell you something, you'll never regret loving like God told you to love. Now you'll regret not doing it. But you'll never regret being obedient. The end of all things is at hand. And above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves. For charity shall cover a multitude of sins. Would you stand with me, please? If you need to pray, you come