Take your Bibles please this morning and go with me to the book of Romans. Romans chapter number one And I want to begin reading in verse number 18 of Romans chapter number 1. And I want to read to the end of the chapter. The subject is stated in the very first verse we will read. It actually is found in the very first five words. The Bible says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth and unrighteousness. Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them, for God hath showed it unto them. For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made. even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God Neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man and to birds and four-footed beasts and creeping things. Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lust of their own hearts, to dishonor their own bodies between themselves. Who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshipped and served the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed forevermore. Amen. For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections. For even their women did change their natural use into that which is against nature. And likewise also the men leaving the natural use of the woman burned in their lust one toward another, men with men working that which is unseemly. and receiving in themselves that recompense of their error which was meet. And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind To do those things which are not convenient, being filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness. Full of envy, murder, debate, deceit, malignity, whisperers, backbiters, haters of God, despiteful, proud , Boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents, without understanding covenant breakers, without natural affection, implacable, unmerciful, who, knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, But have pleasure in them that do them. We've been focusing on the gospel in the book of Romans. As we've studied this portion, we have looked at the gospel of his son. We've looked at the gospel of God. We've looked at the gospel of Christ. But now Paul slows down and backs up, so to speak, and gives us the why behind the what. Why the gospel? Imagine with me if you're taking a six-hour flight, three hours into it A stewardess comes down the aisle and says, put this on. It'll make your trip enjoyable. It 'll make this ride real fun. I mean, you just put this clunky thing on your back and you strap it on, and it's going to be the greatest thing ever. And maybe you do it just to be nice and you realize that that thing on your back doesn't make that seat any more comfortable. It really isn't fun to set there. I mean, sitting there is one thing, but sitting there with that on your back and you hunched over, I mean, it makes it uh quite a hard ride, quite quite a difficult journey. But suppose that same stewardess comes down the aisle and she says something like this, the plane's going down. Put this on and it'll save your life. You don't care about the discomfort. You don't care about whether or not it's fun. You just want to save your life. And so that parachute becomes the object which saves your life. Sometimes we preach the gospel, and I don't think we really preach the gospel when we preach the gospel like this. Take Jesus, he'll make life wonderful. Just make Jesus a part of your life and everything's going to be good. I mean, if you really want to have fun, believe on Jesus. Friend, I've got news for you. That is not true. And that is not the gospel. I watched something that saddened me this week, and I was shocked by those that would say that this was the gospel. A man stood and said, I want you to know that everyone is enough. Enough? Excuse me? Do you not realize that none of us are enough? That's humanism. And then he said, but Jesus loves you and he's there for you, and you're never alone. And they said, What a great gospel message. And I say to you, that is the deceitful tactics of the devil to damn a multitude of people. Who want to believe something that sounds so wonderful and good without cr confronting the awful facts of why we need the gospel And the awful facts of why we need the gospel is the wrath of God against the sin of man. Would you pray with me in just a moment and I'll preach what I believe the Lord has given me? Heavenly Father, I bow in Jesus' name and humbly ask you to help me now to be faithful to preach the word Dear Lord, I ask that you would give me boldness that can only come from heaven, and yet give me a compassion that can only come from Christ. I ask you, Lord, to take your word and do its work in our hearts and draw us unto thee. Help us to see the Lord Jesus for all that he is. And Lord, may we truly bow before you and look to you for that mercy that we so desperately need. Lord, open the eyes of our understanding and have thine own way, and we'll thank you for what you do, for we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said. I want you to notice back in the text, first the revelation of the wrath of God. Look in verse 18. The Bible says, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven. Notice the wrath of God does not have anything to do with coming from men. You do not have to fear the wrath of man. The wrath of man is one thing and it it bears out in all of its consequences, but the wrath of God's a whole nother level, for it comes from heaven. The wrath of God revealed from heaven. The Bible teaches us very clearly that there is a coming day of wrath. We talked about it and have studied the revelation and as we have done so we have discovered that the the time of uh of tribulation on this earth is the time of God's wrath, an outpouring of God's wrath. But Paul describes a wrath that's coming for eternity and coming in eternity. It's something that looms on the horizon for everyone who rejects Jesus Christ as Savior. It is a reality, it's a sad reality. I take no pleasure in preaching this, but I would be mere hireling if I did not. And the wrath of God, the Bible says, is revealed. Not possibly will be revealed or could be revealed, but it is revealed from heaven. I want you to notice the revelation comes for three causes. There's three reasons God's wrath is revealed, and all of them are just. The Bible says that the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness. That's reason number one. Say, preacher, what's ungodliness? Ungodliness is sin against God. It's the violation of the holiness of God. And by the way, I must remind us all: the Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Every individual here today has violated that moral perfection, that holiness of God, and therefore we're guilty of ungodliness, and the wrath of God is revealed from heaven. On all ungodliness. You say, preacher, I I'm not that bad. I'm a pretty good person There may be someone go so far as say, well, preacher, I've never told a lie. Well, you just crossed the line. You just did. The truth is, dear friend, the scripture makes it clear in those ten compact laws, the law of God, those ten very clear truths. that condemn us all. And he says if we're guilty of one, we've broken the whole law. So the revelation of this wrath is due to the ungodliness of men, the sin against God. And then notice, and unrighteousness of men. If ungodliness is sin against God, unrighteousness is sin against man. Have you ever thought about this? The first sin in the Bible was against God when Adam and Eve violated his law and took that fruit that they were not supposed to. That's the ungodliness. The second sin recorded in the Bible is unrighteousness. Because it occurred between man and man when Cain killed Abel, his brother. And so God says that the wrath of God is due to the ungodliness of men and the unrighteousness of men. When men not only sin against God, but they sin against one another. Then notice this. He says, who hold the truth in unrighteousness The wrath of God is not only due to the ungodliness of man, the unrighteousness of man, but the unbelief of man. That word hold means to stifle. It's a matter of simple unbelief, choosing unbelief, even though the facts are clear. The unbelief of man. All of these invite the wrath of God upon him. Do you know there are two kinds of people here this morning? There are people who are under the wrath of God. And there are people who are under the forgiveness of Christ. There are those that are going to face the wrath of God in eternity. Unless they be converted, and there are those who are saved and saved, so saved that they know the wrath of God has already passed over on the person of Jesus Christ and we found a refuge in him. Now you're one of those two peoples. I want you to notice not only the revelation, but look at the reasons expounded. Now, Paul begins to elaborate on what he's just said. He's going to address ungodliness and unrighteousness and unbelief. Starting in verse number 19, look what the Bible says. Because That which may be known of God is manifest in them. For God hath showed it unto them. For the invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen. Be it understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power in Godhead, so that they are without excuse. I want you to notice the first reason that he expounds is this blatant unbelief. God says I'd give every man sufficient evidence of my existence. I have given him a conscience. Inside of him is a moral barometer that says there's a moral being who wrote the code and put it inside of you. He said, it's that thing we find here that is manifest in them, that God hath showed it unto them. And to reject the Lord, to reject God, to reject Jesus Christ, is to defy the very conscience God created in you. And causes you to understand that there must be a God, there must be someone who's written that moral DNA into my fiber. But then notice the next thing that he says, those those visible things, or excuse me, those invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen. So not only does our conscience testify to God's reality, but creation testifies to God's reality. When you look around and see the fact that everything that we see that is made by God is has certainly been made by his hand. It's very foolish to think that somehow or another that this all happened by accident. You know, it's an amazing thing to me that we can put such faith in something that's so feeble and yet puts such little faith in someone who's so mighty. And believe that somehow or another, beloved, listen to me this morning Nothing explosive is productive. Nothing. I blew up a lot of things in my day. Accidentally and intentionally. It started as a little boy. I was mixing something. Dad said, throw that away. And so I took it. We had an outhouse. How many of you are old enough to remember those? And uh we had an outhouse, and it had a concrete pouring down 15 -20 feet. And that metal can that I threw into that outhouse sparked on its way down. Both the contents of the can and the contents of the house. were highly explosive. And so the outhouse took a trip into the heavens And I'm telling you something, I have never seen nothing like that in my life. I was pretty amazed by it until I realized how much trouble I was in when that rascal hit the ground. That was an explosion like I had never seen before. I promise you, nothing good came out of that at all. Nothing useful or productive. I bet, honest to goodness, I think I probably got a spanking for about four months for that a activity. My dad would be sitting and thinking about it and you'd just see him. His brow would start to furrow and his vein would start to pop up on his neck and I think, yep, here comes another one. He's just thinking about what I did back yonder Well, the reality is, is that nothing explosive is productive. How can we think that somehow way out yonder in the universe something exploded and made all the beauty that we see with our eyes? The Bible simply states, in the beginning God created, a God who's infinitely wise and who's greatly uh merciful created all the things that you and I see and even though it's under a curse it still holds a beauty that only a creator could put a stamp on it. Yet for men to defy the reality of creation and defy the testimony of their conscience, they have to exercise a blatant unbelief. A blatant unbelief that says there is no God, I refuse, not that I cannot see, but I simply refuse to see. And none are so blind as those who refuse to see the reality. So there's blatant unbelief. That again is another link in the chain of the wrath of God. And then notice he goes on in verse 21. It says, because that, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man, and to birds and four-footed beasts and creeping things. I want you to notice the third the second reason, rather, that's expounded, is the blindness of man's foolish heart. The blindness of man's foolish heart. Notice it says they knew God, not in a saving way. But in a way of understanding, there is a God. And when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. They elevated him not to the position that he holds and recognizing such, but they the Bible says, look at it again, they neither were thankful, not grateful, but became vain, empty silly, foolish, in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Then the next verse says, Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools I thought of this. You know, people think we're foolish for believing the Bible. We're foolish for believing in the truth, the scripture. We're foolish for believing that one man is the Savior of the whole world. We're foolish for believing that God would create all things in six literal days by his own power. They look at you and say you're a fool. But the Bible's estimation is the other way around. The Bible says the wise man believes the scripture. It is the fool who says in his heart, there is no God. It's foolish to reject the reality of God, and so professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. And then here is where we see the ultimate ignorance or blindness of the foolish heart. The very God they deny, they seek to replace. If there is no God, why have an idol? If there's no such thing as God, why be worried about God? Why go on and make the idols? And he describes some of them, not certainly all of them, but he talks about those that are made like corruptible man, birds, four footed beasts, and creeping things. And what he's saying is that that man's going about trying to replace God. And friend, if there is no God, then let there be no God. But the truth is man knows there's a God, and so rather than outright reject him, he's got to replace him with something. And I want to submit to you this morning that humanism is just another form of idolatry. Humanism says I'm enough. Humanism says I'm a little God. Humanism says I don't need God. I'm enough in myself. Humanism says that God is not God, that I am God, and I will replace him. It's mere idol worship. It's self-worship. And yet do you realize it is the fabric of the society in which we now live? That it's woven into the education on elementary levels and all the way through university That man is indoctrinated with the thoughts and thinking and ideology, that I am God, I am good, I am enough without any reconciliation for sin, without any remedy for our sinfulness, and therefore we become gods in the place of God. And that is nothing more than cultured idolatry. And it's where we're living right now. But it's the it's blindness of the foolish heart. The heart is blind. It's darkened by the sin of itself. And then notice the bitter progression. Verse number 24 of the Bible says, wherefore, God also gave them up. Two times he's going to say that. Three times the truth is going to be used, and I'll show you that in a minute. But two times he says God gave them up. You know what? You say what does that mean? That means God turned them over. Let them have their way. Wherefore God also gave them up. By the way, do you realize that you don't have to do something? For the wrath of God to come, it it God just has to let you go your way. Let you do your own thing. My nephew, my my dad had to babysit my nephew when he first retired. And my nephew, who's now a pastor and a young man I greatly respect, was a knucklehead as a little boy. It must run in the family. But little Nathan was so encouragable, you couldn't tell him nothing. And I remember dad saying, don't touch the stove, Nathan. He'd walk over there and he'd look at him. He'd put his little rotten hand out. Daddy would say, don't do that. And after being weird, you know when you're 60-something years old, you don't have the patience you do when you're 20. I'm not there yet, and I know that already. But he kept on. He kept on. I was there at the house. I can still remember the day. Nathan's just a little fella. He's walking over there, putting his hand up And uh and he'd shake his head, he'd laugh, say, Papa, no, Papa no. He said, Yeah, Papa said no, don't put your hand on the stove. Finally, Daddy had enough. He said, go ahead and touch it. If you gotta touch it so bad. And he reached out. Guess what? Didn't take him a millisecond to know why he wasn't supposed to touch the stove. Talking about the wood stove there in the living room I mean immediately he realized and listen God says no and man man sort of laughs at God's no but please understand God says listen I will give you up I'll let you go and have your own way Watch what happens. He gives them up to uncleanness through the lust of their own hearts, to dishonor their own bodies between themselves, who changed the truth of God into a lie. And worshiped and served the creature more than the creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. If you want a definition, a Bible definition for humanism, here it is. Serving the creature more than the creator. The elevation of man above God. But God, I know the Bible says you made man man and woman woman, and they're different. But I'm going to change that and say that it's a fluid thing. It's something that can change or be changed. Changing the truth of God into a lie. When we say that marriage is anything other than one man, one woman for that lifetime, you know what we're saying we're taking the truth of God and we're making it a lie. We're changing it to fit and accommodate our desires, our wicked hearts. When we alter these things that God has clearly stated in his precious word, what are we doing? We're serving the creature We're saying, God, we know this is what you desire and this is what you require, but God, we're not interested in that. We want our own way. We want to do it our way. We want life my way. We want things to be the the way I want them to be, not the way you've stated them to be. And God says, I want you to know that is a bitter progression and somewhere. Please hear me. Somewhere there's a line man crosses. Somewhere there's a line that man crosses that cannot be returned to. Somewhere man crosses the line and God says, okay. Go your way. The wrath of God is not something that needs to literally come from heaven. It's revealed from heaven. But all God has to do is let man get what he wants. And realize that what you wanted is not what you needed. And dear friend, understand this the wrath of God is revealed from heaven in this fashion. Then we move into a sobering part of this chapter, a sobering part. In verse 26, it says again, for this cause, God gave him up. For this cause, God gave them up. For this cause, God would turn them over to their own desires. For this cause, God would say, Okay, you've crossed that line, you've gone past that place of no return. And now I'm going to turn you over and let you have your way. What's the cause? The humanizing of God and the deifying of man. When they served the creature more than the creator, when they took God off the throne and put themselves there. Do you understand that's that's what our culture is intoxicated with right now? We send our children to places of education and wonder why they come home thinking like heathen. It's because their minds are flooded with that. Marinath the Baptist Christian Academy may never be big, but I pray it'll always be available. I pray it'll be a place where young people can can can can receive the teaching of truth from the Word of God and know this that that there's there's there is a God in heaven and it's not them and there is someone Who saved them, and it's the Lord Jesus. Listen, dear friend, understand me this morning. Humanism is the devil's tool to convert a culture and prepare them for the Antichrist and Anna sin. Buddy, it's rampant around us. You send our children to schools of higher education and higher learning and they imbibe all of this doctrine and we and they become twofold the child of hell. It's impossible sometimes to break through that brainwashing. I saw a sickening little clip the other day of some school up in Boston where little children were being indoctrinated, not taught how to read and write and do arithmetic and all of the basic functions that a school's to to operate for, but an ideology, a mentality Wash it and say this is the way. Beloved, we're in trouble. Do you understand that this morning? We're in trouble. The wrath of God is revealed from heaven. And man stands in trouble with God. Now I know that isn't what you come to hear this morning. And quite frankly, it's not all that my heart wants to preach, but I'm trying to be faithful to the Scripture and faithful to the Spirit of God and warn you that there is such a thing as the wrath of God. I sat yesterday evening meditating on this and I'll be honest with you, as I looked out that back window at those beautiful woods and snow and the birds feeding in the feeder, my heart was trembling over the truth of what I've got to preach. The reality that there are people who will hear me who will face what I'm preaching. The reality that there are men and women who will who hang by just a mere slender thread out of the very pit of hell, and the wrath of God is breathing j just like some monstrous beast down their neck and soon to consume them. And yet, my friend, we go on our merry way without giving thought to this sad reality. This third portion deals with the retribution. God gave them up. What did He do? Under vile affections. The ruin of homosexuality is described here. It's moral perversion. It's an indication of this retribution. It's an indication. The more you see this in our society, the more you need to understand we're under the wrath of God. That the hand of God is taken off of people and God says, You want that? Go your way. You can have your way. Sad, it's sad, church. It's heartbreaking. Can God save someone who's ensnared in the sin of homosexuality? Obviously he can. He saved them in Corinth. Some 2,000 years ago, he saved individuals who were ensnared in that sin and set them free, for Paul described them as abusers of themselves. with mankind, another terminology for those that are given to vile affection, and he's telling us very clearly that's what they were, but he said, Now you've been washed You've been justified. You've been, listen, the blood of Jesus Christ can cleanse all sin. I believe that with my whole fiber. But we see the ruin of homosexuality. Then look at the reprobate mind. And even as, added to this, they did not like to retain God in their knowledge. God gave them over to a reprobate mind. To do those things which are not convenient. Now listen, the word reprobate means to be uh to be more or to be corrupt or to turn from truth or to be turned over to its desire. They said, God, I don't want you in my mind. I don't want to think about you. That's what the removal of Ten Commandments is all about. We don't want reminders. That's why we don't want a Christian culture in our society. Because we don't want the reminders. We say, get all that away. It bothers me too much. It troubles me. Eraser. Remove. Take all of that away. And here's what happened. God says, okay, I'm going to give you a reprobate mind. I'm going to let you go Into that darkness of defiance of God. Oh dear friend, there's no bottom or end to this thing. And then he describes these resulting sins of a reprobate mind. Look what he says. He gave them over to a reprobate mind to do those things which are not convenient. And the first statement tells me this isn't an inclusive list or exclusive list, but it says being filled with all unrighteousness. Fornication, wickedness, covetousness, malicious. You know what malicious means? It means to hate to an extreme degree. Sound familiar? Does it sound culturally rev re uh relevant? Does it sound like something that's happening in the hour we're living in? Maliciousness? Full of envy. Watch this murder? Debate? I never thought we'd live in a country where someone would be killed for their belief. But here we are. Deceit, malignity, malignity means to be extremely evil. Extremely evil, evil to a high level. Whisperers. That word whisperer means a secret slanderer. Someone who is two-faced. They say one thing here and another thing somewhere else I'm telling you, this nation of peoples is full of whisperers. People who sing I Love Jesus on Sunday morning and live like the devil on Monday. People who use the very lips that God gave them to give him praise, singing an old-fashioned hymn, and then go out of here and take his name in vain. They're whisperers. Many of them are given over to reprobate minds. The Bible goes on to describe them as backbiters, haters of God. See where they cross the line? It's one thing to be lost. It's another thing to be a hater of God. I mean to be someone who says, God, you're my enemy now. You listen to many of the intellectuals and the individuals who will uh speak against Christianity in our day, and you can hear an undertone of hatred. A bubbling uh uh uh a viral uh uh just a very wicked and vicious hatred for God, haters of God, despiteful, proud, boasters And having nothing to brag about but bragging all along. Pardon the country terminology, but they're like little banny roosters. And if you don't know what a banny rooster is, a bandy rooster is a miniature form of the real thing. They're the small ones, you know, there's the big ones and there's the small ones. And the loudest crowers and the meanest attitude is often found in the littlest body. Sarah has a whole flock of them. And uh the the little ones have the worst attitude. They're mean And listen to me. Here is man. He thinks he's something and he's nothing. He's boasting and he's proud and he's full of himself. But what is is he to be proud of? What has he got to boast of? Goes on and says he's uh inventors of evil things. Notice this disobedient to parents I read that, I thought, Lord, what's that doing there? Why is that stuck right here in the list of such vile offenses? And I started studying that little word, and that disobedience is more than just simple the rebellion of the heart of a child. It's a refusal to have an authority. It's that rising up with that attitude that says, you will not rule over me, that extends from a parent and goes directly to God. May I remind you that God gave us our parents. Flawed as they may be, God gave them to us And there's a measure of honor and respect that is to is due them. And when that begins to break down in the home, and you raise children who are rebels to parents, it's just one step more to be a rebel to God. And we've got a culture consumed with it Notice it goes on to say, without understanding, no discernment. Have you ever thought, how can you believe that? That's so obviously wrong. No understanding. Without understanding, covenant breakers, without natural affection, implacable, that means to be unreasonably angry. Can't reconcile. You can't reason. That's where a lot of people are. I believe with all my heart there are more reprobate minds than we care to admit. And and and it says there these again are the characteristics. Unmerciful. Oh, unmerciful No mercy. It doesn't take long to look into the mass of humanity and realize that mercy is a missing element. In the society which we live? Little mercy is extended in any direction whatsoever And all of these are the resulting sins of a reprobate mind Church, you and I are living right smack dab in the middle of what I just described All around you, all around me, maybe in you, is this working of evil And then notice the last verse, and perhaps this is the saddest of all. Who knowing the judgment of God, by the way, your heart knows reason that reason doesn't know. Now you ponder that. There's something in your heart you know to be true, though your reason tries to dismantle it. They knew the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do it. Notice the reprobate's pleasure. If the ruin of homosexuality is moral perversion and the reprobate mind is mental perversion, here is mad pleasure. It's that taking pleasure in what we ought to be repenting of. Now let me get practical. Tonight, America's game will be celebrated by millions. They'll sit around televisions and root for a team and then halftime will come and a show's going to be displayed. And all across this land and around the world is going to be viewed a deplorable act of sin. If the gentleman who's involved does what he says he's planning to do, a man's going to wear a dress to perform so as to give honor to his queer icons. Say preacher, why do you say that? I'll tell you why I say that. Because there'll probably be people sitting here this morning. You're gonna sit that TV tonight and not come to church and watch that thing. And you're going to sit there and you're going to expose your children. You're going to expose your family. You're going to expose your own soul. You're going to see the reality. And what's going to happen? Another layer of callous is going to be laid over your heart. Another little bit of, well, it's just where we are, it's just the times we're in. No, it's wrong. It's sin against God. Beloved, please hear me today. God does not wink at the filthiness of man. Do you understand we'll spend, they they estimate it likely will be more, but this country will spend twenty point six billion dollars. on this Super Bowl? Twenty point six billion dollars and we cry we can't people can't pay their mortgages, they can't uh meet meet needs or or or have health insurance, but they can pay we can put twenty point six billion dollars i into a football game And then sit and watch the debauchery and you say, oh, but but preacher, faith for the family, they're going to have an alternative. Well, do you know who's performing that? Look, I'm not here to make enemies. I'm trying to tell you some truth that's just burning in my heart this morning The the reality is that that dressed up filthiness is still filthiness. And and what tit whatever title we try to put on it, you can't make a wrong right. And we we we have a culture who's celebrating this sort of thing. You know what ought to happen tonight? America's churches ought to be full of broken-hearted Christians who will at least bow their head once and say, God have mercy on America God have mercy on my babies and my grandbabies. I think about little Jack up there in Ohio. I I shudder to think the world he's going to grow up in. And I pray that God will save him and keep him from the filthiness and the lies of the devil. And I'm going to be here tonight by the grace of God and I'll bow my head at some point and say, God help America God have mercy on this country. Have mercy on my family. Have mercy on my local church. I'm here to tell you if we understood how much trouble we were in. We would have a whole different attitude, but yet the Laodicean spirit has infiltrated the local church, and the church is rich, increased with goods, and have need of nothing. We've got our heads in the air and our shoulders squared back and our hearts are wicked and hard and we don't realize we are standing on the verge of the judgment of God and we need mercy and we need to seek the Lord for that. John the Baptist stood and told a crowd of people one day, he said, I want you to flee from the wrath to come. In fact, it was a bunch of religious people that he said to them, Who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come? I'm just simply issuing a warning this morning. Flee from the wrath to come. Church, you say, preacher, where can I flee? And where can I go? Is there somewhere safe? Is there a refuge from this storm? Oh, dear friend, let me tell you there is. His name's Jesus. You see, two thousand years ago on a cross, he took the wrath of God for man. Two thousand years. You want to see what God thinks about sin? Look what he did to his son on the cross. You look at what God did to the Lord Jesus on your behalf. The brutality of the cross reveals the hatred of God to sin. And if he did that to his son, what's he going to do to you and me who are not in his son? The wrath of God, my friend, has only one remedy, only one refuge, only one hiding place, only one escape, and that is the precious Son of God, Jesus Christ, who loved us and gave himself for us. When he died on Calvary, he satisfied a holy God. When he shed his blood, he made a remedy for sin. When he got up out of the grave. He holds the receipt and says, I am he that was dead, but behold, I'm alive forevermore. I have the keys to death and hell, and he'll save you, dear friend, right on this spot if you'll run to him. Flee from the wrath to come to the person of Jesus Christ. I love the old hymn that was written so many years ago. It says, My soul in sad exile. Was out on life sea. I was suburbed with sin and distress till I heard a sweet voice say, Make me your choice. And I entered the haven of rest. I've anchored my soul in the haven of rest. I'll sail the wide seas no more. The tempests may sweep or the wild, stormy deep, but in Jesus In Jesus, not in Marinatha Baptist Church, not in your little prayer profession. In Jesus, in Jesus, I'm safe evermore. I yielded myself to his tender embrace and faith taking hold of the word. My fetters fell off, and I anchored my soul. The haven of rest is my Lord. Listen what it says, the song of my soul, since the Lord made me whole, has been the old story so blessed, of Jesus who will save whosoever will have a home in the haven of rest. How precious the thought that we all may recline like John the Beloved and blessed on Jesus' strong arm where no harm can come secure in the haven of rest. I've anchored my soul I stand before you not as a man perfect, not as a man even good, but I stand before you as a man who's anchored his soul in the haven of rest. In Jesus I'm safe. You say, what's a Christian? I'll tell you what a Christian is. A Christian is somebody who's been stripped Of all their own righteousness. You've been left nothing but a beggar before a holy God. And you've simply said, Have mercy. Nothing in my hand I bring, simply to the cross I cling. There's nothing I've got, nothing you've got that'll keep us out from the wrath, away from the wrath of God. You can't stop it, you can't deny it, you can't reject it. One day you'll face it. And you'll either face it and, my friend, have to endure the wrath of God for all of eternity in the lake of fire, or either you'll come to Jesus Christ, stripped of all goodness, stripped of all righteousness. I'm praying, I'm praying for the salvation of our president. If his own words are a reflection of his own heart, he needs Christ. I don't say that to be political. I say that to make the gospel clear as I possibly can. To say I'm trying to do good for people that are good, so I'll get to heaven. It's to say that you've never been broken before the cross of Jesus Christ. You've never had your heart exposed. As the Holy Ghost does that operation on the insides and show you how wicked, lost, and hell-bound you are and deserving. Although I was a wee boy when God saved me, it was a mighty thorough thorough work the Holy Ghost did. I remember sitting and thinking, I deserve to be in hell. And I'll tell you, if Lord, you don't save me, I'm gonna go there real quick. And I was fearful. There was a fear in my heart. There was a reality. I knew how it was like God had started painting my sins on the church wall. And every evil thing I'd ever done seemed to loom like some sentence of judgment against me. When I knelt in that altar, I didn't come telling God how good I was I didn't come telling God how how you know I I'm gonna do this and that and the other how I'm gonna change. I came and said, God, I'm lost and I need you to save me. I don't have nothing but you. I'm looking to and crying out, Lord, have mercy on my soul. And I'm glad to report to you on the authority of God's word. And the work of the Holy Ghost in my dear heart, but the Lord God had mercy on me and saved me on that spot. I didn't understand it all. I still don't understand it all But I sure am grateful that God heard the pleas of a beggar boy and heard the pleas of a man who has headed to hell and saved him by mercy and grace. And every one of you, precious friends Will only make it to heaven if you go by the way of Jesus Christ and find mercy from the wrath of God in him. It's sort of like running towards a a structure when a storm comes up We were cutting hay in a big old field and I was running the we called it the fluffer. I forget what's the proper name. Tether? Tether. I don't know which you which way you call it. We just called it the fluffer. It was the hay fluffer. And I was way on the other side of the field and I seen that dark cloud come over the Pinnacle Mountain. And then that jagged lightning. Now That just light up the sky lightning don't bother me, but when it's jagged, that's directed lightning. That's the kind that'll smack you off a tractor And I said, man, I don't want to be caught out in that. And I didn't take time to wait on that slow tractor to get me to safety. I shut that thing off and I used the little legs, God give me, and I ran like a gazelle when I could run. And I ran for that barn. There was a great big barn sitting out there. It'd been an old uh chicken house, I guess, at one time Deserted, but it had a roof and it had sort of some walls and it was a good place to hide. And I can still remember for some reason running across that field And hearing that thunder and imagining, I'm sure it wasn't true, but imagining that lightning just hitting foot feet with behind me, you know, every time it it let go and that thunder rolled, it just felt like, man, that was right on my heels And then you could hear the rain in the mountains when it starts like that, you'll hear the rain on the mountain first. You'll hear that roaring, and then you'll see it come in sheets down the mountainside And you know that rain's coming your way. And man, I was running. And just as I got underneath that first little outpoint of that barn , You could hear that rain just hitting and the hail that was in it. It was a storm and a half. And I remember standing there, just quite proud of myself, thinking, boy, I'm glad I got in here And then this thought hit me. I thought, you know what? I'm glad somebody put this here. I don't know who built this barn, and I don't know why it's out here in the middle of nowhere, but I'm sure glad it's here. Because it saved me. From a terrible storm. I'm going to tell you something. If you ever get saved, you'll come to the Lord Jesus and you'll say, Lord, I'm glad you're here. I'm glad there's one like you I can put my trust in. I'm glad there's someone that I can run to when the storm of fire of wrath of God falls. There is one in whom I can trust. There's a refuge in which I can hide. I'm not just hiding in a Baptist. I'm not hiding in my prayer. I'm hiding in the Lord Jesus. He's the refuge from the wrath of God. Flee to him from the wrath to come. Flee to him. My dear friend, there's no ceremony in fleeing. You know, I wasn't worried about my form when I ran. Was I picking my feet up just high enough? Was I keeping my shoulders straight and my head back? Was I running like an Olympic? No, sir. I just wanted to get in out of the storm. I'm not talking about ceremonially doing anything. You might sit right there and weep your way to God in your seat. You may fall in this altar on your knees. You may leave this building and get in your car and cry out to the Lord Jesus. But hear me, dear friend. Flee from the wrath to come to the Lord Jesus. He takes all sinners in who will come to him. None that come to him will he cast out and leave you aside. Run to him. I know you gotta humble yourself, but it's better than going to hell. Would you stand with me, please? Father