One thing I miss since they've moved to another class is I don't get to hear 'em sing on Sunday morning. They always start their classes by their class by singing and uh their class used to be right under my office and so they'd lift the carpet sometimes on Sunday morning Singing and that encouraged my heart. Now they're way back here in No Man's Land, back in the corner, and so I don't get to hear 'em. But I appreciate their singing tonight and their encouragement. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to Revelation chapter 18. And in Revelation chapter 18, we see the fall of Babylon. Babylon falls, and and I want to remind you as you're turning there that when Babylon is spoken of in prophetic scripture. That it describes one of two things, either the ecclesiastical Babylon or the One World Church. Or the political Babylon, which is the one world government run by the man of sin We've already discovered in our study last week in Revelation chapter 17 that the political Babylon has devoured the ecclesiastical Babylon. The man of sin turns on that one world church, that uh harlot that we read about and studied about. And in turning upon her, he devours her. So now We come to the fall of this political Babylon or the one world government. I want you to notice with me, and I will say this. Chapter 18 suggests that there will be an epicenter of power for the man of sin. Will it be a new city that is built or an old city that is taken over? I do not know. But I do believe that it's going to be uh a particular place that is It is going to be seen as the empire, as the jewel in the crown of the man of sin And what is described in this chapter is the complete collapse of that empire and the collapse of that city. Revelation chapter 18. Look at it with me if you would, please. The Bible says, and after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven. having great power. And the earth was lightened with his glory. And he cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen. And is become the habitation of devils and the hold of every foul spirit and a cage of every unclean and hateful bird. For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her. And the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies. And I heard another voice from heaven saying, Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues. For her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities Reward her, even as she rewarded you, and double under her, double according to her works, in the cup which she hath filled Feel to her double. How much she hath glorified herself and lived deliciously so much torment and sorrow give her. For she saith in her heart, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow Therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death and mourning, and famine, and she shall be utterly burned with fire, for strong is the Lord God who judgeth her. And the kings of the earth who have committed fornication and lived deliciously with her shall bewail her and lament for her when they shall see the smoke of her burning, standing afar off for fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas, that great city Babylon, that mighty city, for in one hour is thy judgment come And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her, for no man buyeth their merchandise any more. The merchandise of gold and silver and precious stones and of pearls. and fine linen and purple and silk and scarlet and all fine wood and all manners of uh vessels of ivory and all manner of vessels of most precious wood and of brass and iron and marble And cinnamon and odors and ointments and frankincense and wine and oil and fine flour and wheat and beasts and sheep and horses and chariots and slaves and souls of men And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from thee, and all things which were dainty and goodly are departed from thee, and thou shalt find them no more at all. The merchants of these things, which were made rich by her, shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing And saying, Alas, alas, that great city, that was clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, for in one hour so great riches has come to naught And every shipmaster, and all the company and ships and sailors, and as many as trade the sea, stood afar off, and cried when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is like unto this great city? And they cast dust on their heads and cried, weeping and wailing, saying, Alas, alas, that great city wherein were made rich all that had ships in the sea, by reason of her costliness. For in one hour she is made desolate. Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets, for God hath avenged you on her. And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone and cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that great city of Babylon be thrown down and shall be found no more at all. And the voice of harpers and musicians and pipers and trumpeters shall be heard no more at all in thee. And no craftsman of whatsoever crafty beast shall be found any more in thee. And the sound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in thee. And the light of a candle shall shine no more at all in thee, and the voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be heard no more at all in thee For thy merchants were the great men of the earth, for by thy sorceries were all nations deceived. And in her was found the blood of prophets. And of saints, and of all that were slain upon the earth. Babylon has fallen I want to divide this chapter in three ways and look at it from that point of view. In verses 1 to 8, we see the angels cry, this mighty angel. Who comes down and lightens the earth with his glory. In verses 9 to 19, we see earth's weeping. There's weeping over this city on the earth. But verses 20 to 24 talk about heaven's rejoicing. All three of these are reactions to the fall of Babylon. I want us to look at them tonight and ask the Lord to help us in a special way. Let's pray. Father, we come now and thank you for the privilege to open our Bibles again. We thank you, Lord, for the privilege that we have to assemble in this fashion. We pray, O Lord, that you would do what's needed in our hearts for your glory and our good. Give us ears to hear, hearts that'll be obedient. And Lord, just please speak as only you can And Father, for all that you do, we'll be careful to give you the glory. Help me, Lord, empty me of me, fill me with thee. Help me to preach the word. May your will be done. In Jesus' strong name. And God's people said. Amen. I want you to begin by looking at this angel's cry. We're told in verse number one that after these things, after the uh the destruction of the ecclesiastical Babylon, the devouring of the One World Church. John gets to see something else And there's a shift here. I think you'll see it. I believe you've seen it already. There's a changing of scene. There's a changing of a shifting of gears. Here, no longer is the man of sin rising stronger and powerful. No longer is he rising up, ascending up, and becoming greater in his influence and authority. We are now beginning to see the downward fall of the man of sin. And from this point on to the end of the revelation, we see the rising of the power and person of the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to report to you tonight that there is a day coming when the devil will be put in his place. When all the powers of evil and darkness and hell itself will be set in order and God will rule and reign omnipotent above. You be encouraged tonight, dear child of God. The devil does not win at the end of the day. The angel makes a proclamation in verses one and two. And I believe that this proclamation sets the fall in order. Look what he says: this angel comes down from heaven having great power. And the earth was lightened with his glory, and he cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen And is become the habitation of devils, the hold of every foul spirit, and the cage of every unclean and hateful bird. In other words, God has begun to dismantle The power of Babylon. He's taken it apart. There's nothing more fearful than to fall in the hands of a living God. And to see God begin to dismantle what the devil so meticulously has built This angel makes a proclamation, and I believe the proclamation sets this whole process in order. I believe that because if you read over in verse 21 that he said, I saw a mighty angel take up a stone like a great millstone and cast it into the sea. Saying, Thus with violence shall that great city Babylon be thrown down and shall be found no more at all I believe you have to tie those two verses together and realize that what the angel proclaims in heaven, God begins to do on earth. What this angel states up yonder, it begins to be completed down here below. And so we see the proclamation of the angel. But in the midst of that proclamation, as that great city is beginning to fall and be destroyed, there is a profound warning given to the people of God. He says in verse 4, he said he heard another voice come from heaven, saying, Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues. You know what the Bible is issuing a warning here, a call to the people of God to separate from that system. To separate from this Babylon. To come out of her. By the way, God's call to his people has always been come out. Come out of Egypt, come out of Babylon, come out of the world, and and not just to come out for coming out's sake, but to come out that we might go in To come out of the world. Why do we want to be so much like what God has saved us from? Why do we have such an intoxication with the things of the world? John said the world passes away It's one that listen and this quickly we're seeing Babylon's going to fall. She's going to be destroyed. And he says to my people, God says to his people, come out of her. Don't be a partaker of her sins. Come out from her thinking. Come out from her living. Come out from her ways. We need a revival of coming out. Some of them critters coming out of the closet need to turn around and go back in, and some of God's children need to come out for Christ and stand for the Lord Jesus Christ. Some of God's people need to come out of the world and get the world out of them. Listen, just because God brought you out of Egypt does not mean he's gotten all of Egypt out of you. When you study the children of Israel, you'll find out that a whole lot of things they learnt down there stuck with them all the way through the journey. A lot of the influences of Egypt had a sway, it held sway over them right through to the very end. And so we need a coming out, and we see the angel issuing this profound warning to come out and separate And then this angel describes their prosperity and their pride. Look in verse 3. He talks about the nations having drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. And the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies. She's prosperous. By the way, just because something prospers doesn't mean it has the blessing of God. Just because it looks like everything's going good doesn't mean it is good. There's many a bar with a full parking lot tonight, and many a church with an empty one, and God's only in one of those places. God's blessing is only in one of those places. There's a lot of things that look good that's not good at all. And here she prospered. Man, she's rich. She's materialistic. Listen, the end times is going to be a time of great wealth according to the Word of God. There's going to be a reveling in things, and things are going to hold people. But let me remind you that though she was prosperous, and there was something else about her, she was very proud. Look in verse 7. How much she hath glorified herself, and lived deliciously. So much torment and sorrow give her, for she saith in her heart, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow. Her pride has lifted her up, and now this great city sits and says, We'll not be destroyed. We're too prosperous. We're too uh things are too plentiful. There's no way we'll ever fall. But you'll notice three times the Bible says in one hour. In one hour. In one hour. And in one occasion it says in one day. Four times he emphasizes that her destruction will be very swift. It will not be a destruction that will happen in mere stages. God says, I'll dismantle her in a moment of time. I was watching someone stack cups. I don't know why I was watching them stack cups, and I don't know why they were stacking cups, but they were stacking hundreds of cups. And when they got up to the top, it was going to be their last cup, and I don't remember what number it was, but as that guy put that cup on the very top, you know what happened? It all came crashing down All that work and all that labor and all that time that he had spent just carefully placing, placing, placing, when he put that top cup, that final cup on this great pyramid, she came crashing down. And I thought about Babylon at the at the zenith of her power, at the zenith of her prosperity, at the moment she seems like nothing could touch her. God 's going to just put one little cup in place and the whole thing's going to come crashing down. Her pride and prosperity will be no more. This empire of empires will swiftly come to an end. You'll notice here's the reason, please. Look in verse 8. For strong is the Lord God who judgeth her. The God who judges her is a strong God. He's a strong Lord. It's not going to take much effort for him to dismantle the doings of the devil. That's how strong he is. In fact, he's so strong that when it comes time to bind Satan and cast him away, it's going to take one angel to do it One angel is going to be summons and given the order. That's the strength of the Lord God. And the Lord God is going to dismantle this Babylonian Empire. Listen to me. We live in a world where there seems to be such a an intoxication with power. The world is moving in a place of bowing the knee to the power of the devil, and he's rallying the troops, and he's gathering an impressive array of very proud displays and a prosperous life. He's promising the world and everything in it. Just listen, he's promising that just follow me and I'll give you all you've ever wanted. He's calling for a people who will come and say, Oh Babylon, the great Babylon, there's none greater, none powerful, more powerful, there's none more prosperous than you. And yet God's going to simply do one thing and dismantle the whole organization. He will bring it down. We see the angels cry, by the way, I wouldn't put my eggs in a basket that God's about to drop on the floor Number two, I want you to see the earth's weeping. The angel cries and the dismantling begins, and notice the earth begins to weep. Verse 9 and 10 talks about the political heads. The kings of the earth who have committed fornication and lived deliciously with her, watch this, shall bewail her And lament for her when they shall see the smoke of her burning. Imagine this. It says in verse 10, standing afar off for the fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas, The great city of Babylon, that mighty city, for in one hour is thy judgment come. These political leaders who have put everything in that Empire. Who've taken part in all of her prosperity. Now stand back afraid of her, and they look and they say, You've fallen You've been destroyed. The judgment. And they wail, they bewail her , they lament, they cry aloud, they're brokenhearted, they're weeping over the fall of such a great city. Not only are the political heads weeping, but the peddlers, I'm going to call them peddlers, the merchantmen. Look at it. It says in verse 11 to verse 17 that the merchants of the earth weep and mourn. For no man buyeth their merchandise anymore. No commerce to be had now. It's all gone. It's it's Uh it 's coming to a crashing halt. It it's coming to an end. There there 's nothing to buy or sell. And he begins to talk about all of her merchandise. Look at it. Gold, silver, precious stone, pearls, fine linen, purple, silk, scarlet Fine and wood, the manners of vessels of ivory, and most precious wood, brass, iron, marble, cinnamon, odors, ointments, frankincense. What's all that talking about? Plenty. It's talking about abundance He said, All of that's done with. The merchants are crying. The sailors he he goes on and says that that the Uh the the they cry in verse sixteen, Alas, alas, that great city that was clothed in fine linen and purple, scalp scarlet, decked with gold, precious stones, pearls. For in one hour so great riches is come to naught God 's turned it around. You realize how easy God can do that? I mean all the things we put such stock in and store in can be absolutely worthless before the sun rises. Dr. James Stewart said he was in Poland. And this was uh at the near end of the Second World War. And he said inflation was so bad and and the economy so poor that their money was worthless. Literally worthless He said they took up a love offering under the old tent and they had to carry it in wheelbarrows. The people just, you know why? Because it wasn't, it wouldn't wasn't worth anything And he said that they brought several wheelbarrows. And one of the pastors got up and jokingly said, Dr. Stewart, perhaps you can buy a loaf of bread now. And he had wheelbarrows full of money. That that had been so valuable previously now was absolutely worthless. By the way, in light of eternity, all of our possessions mean nothing. All of the riches of men, all the wealth of this world means absolutely nothing in light of eternity We need to remember this and get God's priorities settled in our heart. Notice this, these peddlers, they say in one hour, in one hour. And verse 18 and 19 talks about the poverty. Look at their poverty. They cried when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is like unto this great city? And they cast dust on their heads and cried, weeping, wailing, saying, Alas, alas, that great city, wherein were made rich all that had ships in the sea. By reason of her costliness, for in one hour she is made desolate. God has brought it to an end He is destroyed. The economy has collapsed. The corruption has been dealt with. The city of Babylon, this great empire, this power of powers has been destroyed. And now we see they're sitting on the earth and they're weeping over everything they had trusted in has been taken away Everything they had looked at is being valuable. And by the way, can I say this? There's going to be a day when every Christian will face the Lord, and there's going to be some weeping over things that were pointless. The Bible says that our lives are going to be divided into two categories, those things that are eternal and those things that are inconsequential. One pile's going to be wood, hay, and stubble, the other gold, silver, and precious stone. And the Bible says that it's all going to be tried by fire. God's going to put it to the test. And he said there's going to be a portion of it that's going to be burned up. Now imagine living your whole life with that pile that's going to burn in a moment of time. Imagine standing in the presence of the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords and seeing your whole life nothing but ashes. And the Bible says those people are going to be saved yet so as by fire. The question is not the manner of their salvation. But of the of the works that they've done, the life they've lived, the the investment of themselves in things eternal See, if we really believed our Bible, we wouldn't be investing our lives in so many things that have absolutely no meaning. That they have no worth, they have no value. We wouldn't be living for things that are temporal, things of time, things that are quickly passing away. We would give ourselves to something far greater. We would give ourselves to someone far greater. We would give ourselves to the Lord Jesus and say, Lord, let my life count for you. Notice here as they weep, they weep over their poverty. They're sitting in the ash heaps of all that they counted so valuable, and now they are completely impoverished. This is the sad state of the materialistically minded. If one thing has destroyed the people of God in this hour, it is materialism. The Laodicean church says, I'm rich, I'm increased with goods, I have need of nothing. That's the dissection of materialism and of financial prosperity. I don't need God. I can buy my things. I can get my way out with the amount of money I have. And I'll tell you, there are things and places that money cannot buy or take you, or there are things money can't do for you. You can't buy a peace for your heart. You can buy a change of scenery You can buy entertainment that will numb your mind and distract you, but you can't buy sweet peace when you put your head on your pillar at night. You cannot buy that that the relationship that a person can have with the God of heaven who's made you. You can't money can't do that. Money can't erase the thought or the reality of sin. Money can't take away the consciousness of a grieved God and of a a broken law, but I'm glad there's one who can. And he says, I'm free. Come freely. Come take of the water of life freely. The earth is weeping. Their materialism has ended in a pile of ashes. But then we see another scene. We come to verse number 20, and we see heaven rejoicing. Verse 20: the Bible says, Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets, for God hath avenged you on her. Would you would you see this this punishment, this vengeance that's poured out? Would you look with me what's happening here? Earth is weeping. The men of earth are all weeping. The angel is proclaiming. But the saints in heaven are rejoicing. They're running the streets of gold. They're shouting glory to God. God has given his the just deserts the evil. I want you to hear me tonight. Dear brother and sister, I want to help you tonight with something. Vengeance. Here's what God said. Vengeance is mine. I will repay, saith the Lord. The Lord is letting us know He's going to set things in order. Now listen, as a Christian, we've got to remember that God's going to deal with all evil. We live in an age where it seems that evil men prosper. It would seem that bad people get by with doing wrong. It would seem from our point of view that no matter how evil or wicked a person is, they just keep going on, they keep prospering, they keep uh I mean they just seem to have more, do better Go further and we look at that and we say, What's going on? And many times God's people get hurt by evil individuals, and we say, Lord, how long? How long is this going to go on? How long will you let the wicked get by with their wickedness? Now, Solomon said something in Ecclesiastes that has always struck a chord in my heart. Solomon said, I have seen princes on foot and servants on horseback You know what he said? I've seen things out of order. The prince ought to be on the horse and the servant on his feet. But he said, I've seen it the other way around. I've seen bad men seem to prosper and good individuals, good as far as godly individuals, seem to struggle. I've seen individuals be done wrong, and you know the sad thing is they've been done wrong by people who call themselves Christians. I know men, plural, men who are out of the ministry. Because some old wicked person in a church, whether it was a long-toned Jezebel or some demon-possessed power-hungry man was on a trip and and they hurt those individuals and they drove and you say, Well shame on them. They shouldn't be out of the house of God. Let me say to you, you don't know what you'd do in that situation. You may think that you're spiritual enough to survive such a thing, but you don't know till it comes knocking on your door. And I've seen them hurt, and you say, Lord, how long? How long will this thing go on? How long will the wicked seem to rise in power and the evil seem to get by? You know, every once in a while the devil will come along and he'll say, uh, just think about all the wrong that's been done you. Did he ever do that to you? And if you're not careful, you'll sit down and you'll start rehashing the story. Yeah, I remember that. And I remember that and I remember that and I remember that. You know what you're going to do? You're going to get full of bitterness. You're gonna get full of bitterness. I remember when that person said this and that individual done that, and when they did me wrong. Listen to me. Understand something. That's the reality of the fallen world we live in. Here the man of sin, here we see this, we we see all this evil, but here's what we also see God takes vengeance on them. The blood of the prophets and the saints stain the streets of Babylon And evil has been committed all through this tribulation. And really, prior to it, all through time, the devil has shed the blood of many a martyr, many a godly individual. And yet there's going to come a day when God will set the record straight. God will put things in order. God will deal out vengeance upon evil. You understand me tonight. You say, preacher, but what about me? What about my situation? Here's what you do, little Christian. You take every care and put it at the feet of Jesus You take every wrong and submit it to the God of heaven. You take every bitter thing. Remember when they got to the waters of Marah and they they were bitter and poisonous and they said, What shall we do? And God said, Moses, yonder's a tree. You take that tree and cut it down and put it in the water, and those bitter waters will be made sweet. That's a picture of the cross of Jesus Christ. You take every bitter thing in your life and lay it at his feet and say, Lord, make it sweet And somehow listen, don't let the devil make you some bitter, sour, sorry old Christian that's that's that's mad at God and everybody else You go to the cross and say, Lord, you're going to set this straight. If I take it in my hands, I'll do wrong. If I try to, how many of you ever tried to make a wrong right? Huh? And made it worse. How many of you have intervened when you should have just interceded? You should have let God do it. And listen, when you do that sort of thing, you'll destroy something. You'll hurt things. The disciples were told there's sweets among the tares. That means there's unsaved people that look like they're saved that are in the family uh in the church of God, not in the family of God, but they're in the church of God And they look like they saved, they talk like they're saved, they act like they're saved, and some of them have their positions and they got a lot of influence. But they're not God's children. You say, preacher, what do we do? Do we go rooting them out and try to figure out? No, Jesus said if you do that, you'll pull up some wheat too. If you try to pull up the tares, you'll pull up the wheat. Because here's what here's the truth. You don't know You don't know who's really saved. You don't know who belongs to God. He does, thank the Lord. He knows those that are his. You know what he said, let them alone. Let him alone. He said there'll come a day when the harvest will sort it out. He'll take the wheat and separate it from the tares. He knows who are his and he knows those are not his Listen, my friend, if you stop and throw rocks at all the devil's dogs that bark at you, you'll never get anywhere. He's got a pack of them and they run wild And they bark every step you take. But if you'll just go on and do something for Jesus, let the devil's dogs bark, and you just be faithful to Christ. Keep your spirits tender and sweet before God and take all these hurts and all this bitterness and lay it down at the feet of Jesus. In heaven, they're rejoicing that God took vengeance. They're shouting and praising God, oh Lord, you've avenged the blood of your prophets. You've come to the aid of your people. You've made every wrong right. You've set everything in order. You've kept your word and you've been faithful. Now I don't know about you. But in that day, I'd rather be up there than down here. In that day I'd rather be among those shouting over the goodness of God and the faithfulness of God than being down here taking the vengeance of God and the wrath of God. Heavens rejoicing God's made a complete end of all her wicked ways. By the way, if I understand verse 24 right, God's watching. God 's watching. Hey, he's watching every slot. He's watching Every proud thing, every proud word, every everything is done intentionally. And you say, preacher, maybe you've not been saved long. And you say, well, preacher, do do do do so-called Christian people intentionally do mean things to other Christians? Yeah, they do. Some of them are pretty mean. In my thirty-some years of experience, my greatest problems have not come from the outside world. I expect the lost to act lost. But some of the the greatest uh heartaches that have come in my life have come from those that name the name of Christ. They've come from those that are supposed to be brothers and sisters in the Lord Jesus Christ. And listen, if we're not careful, we'll let them take us out of the battle. We'll let our hearts get bitter, we'll these martyrs, and if I understand what I'm I'm re I'm reading and studying Revelation These martyrs were not resisting. These martyrs wasn't rallying armies. These martyrs wasn't rising a rebellion. These martyrs were just faithful to Christ. They just kept doing what was right. They just kept following the Lord. And they suffered for it. They died for it. They were killed for it. They became martyrs over their faithfulness to the Lord Jesus. It looks like on the world's end they lost. It looks like on the world's end that they come up the loser. But I've got good news for you. They really won. They're the real winners in this thing. And so what they find is that God says, all right, I'm going to dole out the punishment. I'm going to render vengeance. And they begin to praise God. The angel says, rejoice, you saints, rejoice in heaven over what the Lord's doing. You'll notice he goes on to talk about just how complete uh his judgment is, that great millstone being cast into the sea. It's describing the great violence with which God's going to deal with his enemies and how he's going to take out his vengeance upon them. You understand something tonight. You can trust God to take care of it, whatever it is. You can trust the Lord with it. It may hurt you deeply. I believe there's some precious Christians can't ever get to victory because they're bitter. There's a bitterness in them. It's got them out of serving God. It's taken the sweetness out of their spirit. It it's caused them to not love the Savior like they should anymore. They're bitter. Something was done, and I'm not saying it was right or wrong, God knows, but something was done and and and they are still suffering over it. Still struggling over. Still carrying it around. That wound, it's like a wound trying to heal, and they keep taking the scab off They think about it and they dwell on it and it comes up. And by the way, the devil's going to come along and help you with it The devil's going to make sure that he makes it uh uh makes you aware of it and and say, see, uh you know, that that that really hurts you. He's going to come. If if you start throwing pity parties over it, he's going to come and he'll he'll join. He goes to every pity party that's ever thrown. He don't miss a one. Man. He loves them. And he's there and he's encouraging it. And you know what? The only relief you're ever going to get The only remedy that you're ever going to find is to get in that place of prayer and say, now Lord, that really hurt me. And I don't know quite what to do with it or how to get over it. But I'm going to place it in your hand. And I'm going to trust you to take care of it, whether in time or in eternity. And I'm going to ask you, O Lord, to put your sweetness back in my spirit To put that desire to serve you back in my heart and to help me stay close to you because Lord, I can't do it. And I'll tell you what God will do. He'll gladly take it. He'll gladly take it. There is a bomb in Gilead. Listen, there's a remedy for that sort of thing. There is healing for that sort of thing. And it's found at the feet of the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what this whole world says? You just need to talk about it. You need to find a therapist and tell them all about it. And tell them again and again and again. You know what that is? That's talking to somebody that don't care what's wrong with you, but has to pretend to care because they want to get something from you Amen. And you tell it and you tell it and you tell it and you tell it and you tell it and you tell it until, my goodness, uh you you could you you could do it in your sleep. You could tell the tale of Of your woeful hurts But there is one who, if you'll tell it to, can take it away. There is one if you'll pour it out. Precious Christian, don't let the devil rob you in this part of your life. Don't let the bitterness against God and his people and those that do you wrong take all of that away. Look, there are there are people who are saved and they're miserable. Don't let 'em make you miserable. There are people who are going to heaven who are still, seems like, full of the devil. Don't let them take don't let them take that joy. Don't let all these hurts again he he he emphasizes in this chapter that they had shed blood there, they killed these people, they martyred these people. And if I understand anything about the correlation between the days of Noah and this day, the earth was full of violence. The earth is going to be filled with violence again. And all sorts of wrongs are going to be committed But yet there is a faithful God who says, I'm watching. And God's watching, and He's going to deal with each and every transgression. So, child of God, can I encourage you to not trust God with your herbs? Trust God with your bitterness. Trust God with all those things you can't explain. Put it in the hands of God and say, vengeance is yours, Lord. Vengeance is yours. King David was a noble character. And I say that for this reason. When he could have killed Saul, he didn't. He had the chance. Why? He's in a cave hiding. Saul don't know he's in there. And he goes in that cave and he lays down and goes to sleep. David's got some buddies around him that says, lop his head off. Not gonna do it. I'm not gonna do it because he's the king. I'm gonna let God take care of him. I'm gonna let the Lord his blood ain't gonna be on my hands. David sneaks away and you know the accounts on two occasions and he cries out and says, Hey, I was in there. Could have took your life. Had the opportunity to do you wrong. By the way, if you ever get a chance to do somebody wrong that's done you wrong, don't do it. It ain't worth it. It ain't worth it. Old David took off. He said he's the king. Let God he he'll rise and fall before God. God will take care of him. And old brother, sister, you know the story. God took care of Saul in his time and in his way. God will take care of that too. He'll take care of all the other things in your life and mine. Trust him with it. Put it in his hands. He said, Vengeance is mine. And he said to these dear people, Rejoice over her, thou heaven I'm telling you, it's you talk about a shouting time in heaven. This is going to be a shouting time in heaven. For God avenged you on her. God set the thing straight. And one day, brother, he will. One day, sister, he will. One day he'll put it all in order. You can trust him with it. You young Christians Don't let the devil trip you up right out of the gate. Don't let him do it. Somebody will hurt you, somebody will disappoint you. You take that to the Lord. And leave it to him to straighten out. Lord, take care of it. Some of these older Christians could tell you, they learn to take some things to God and say, now, Lord, you're going to have to take care of it I can't do it. I can't fix it. I can't rectify it. But Lord, you can. I like that scripture. I've got it written in several of my preaching Bibles. My defense is of thee. It's of the Lord. Let Him take care of it. And He will. Because He's faithful. If we learn anything from this passage of Scripture, we learn that God is faithful and God will judge. He will deal with the wicked. When Babylon falls and God brings her down, he will be giving her the fruit of her work. He will be giving her just what she deserves. And all of heaven's going to erupt in a praise, in glory, as they honor the great king. Who's taken vengeance on the evil of this earth? It may be tonight you're saved, but you've lost that sweetness of Christ in your soul. Some wrong 's been done and some hurt. And you're you're sour over it. You're bitter over it. And I want to say tonight there's relief. Take that thing to God and lay it down. If I was you, I'd find me a place to pray tonight, and I'd get on my knees and say, Lord, I'm taking my hands off. I'm giving it to you. Put back in me. That sweetness of fellowship, that closeness to Christ. Lord, get me victory. Give me victory. Be my victory. If some of you that are looking at the world and you're looking at your life and you're looking at Christianity and you're thinking, How's this all going to work out? Well you don't have to know how it's all going to work out to know it's going to work out. That God will set things in order. We're living on the cusp of the ascendancy of the man of sin. He's going to raise power. He's going to raise in power. He's going to seem to prosper. The whole earth is going to seem to go after the devil and seem to do good for doing it. But know this, it'll be short-lived. The time will come when that house of cards will come crashing down and God's vengeance will be poured out You stay faithful to him. Do what Proverbs 3, 5 and 6 says. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct thy paths. You just keep your eyes on the Lord and follow him. Let's stand together. Our pianists will come.