Well, in reality, he is all that matters. And I want you to see that this morning from Hebrews chapter number 10. Would you turn there once again, the book of Hebrews, chapter number 10? And I want to read some portions out of this chapter because I want you to see this morning that he is the final sacrifice. The final sacrifice. On Memorial Day, we honor the sacrifice of countless, countless numbers of people who laid down their lives for our freedom. We call it a sacrifice because a sacrifice is losing something to gain something else. And that's exactly what's happened, so many, and again it is a countless number, of people who have laid down their lives so that you and I could sit here free today. Someone has said that this is the most expensive holiday in the American calendar. It truly is. But there is another sacrifice I want you to think about. And it was the final sacrifice. There's no more to be made. And I want you to see that, please, this morning. Hebrews chapter 10. Would you stand and let me read our text once more? And then I'm going to go back and read some others. But Hebrews chapter 10 And let's start reading in verse number ten. The Bible says, by the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ. And what are those next three words? And every priest standeth daily ministering and offering oftentimes The same sacrifices which can never take away sins. But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God. From henceforth, expecting till his enemies be made his footstool. For by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. Father, help us, please, this morning. I realize, oh Lord, that what we need to see here today, only you can help us see. That Lord, these things are spiritually discerned. And dear Lord, I pray that you would give us ears to hear and eyes to see. And better still, give us hearts that would love thee and adore thee for what you've done. Lord, we thank you for the sacrifice for our sin. Lord, we also bow our heads and thank you for the sacrifices made for our freedom. Thank you for, Lord, those that have fallen both on foreign soil and on this soil. And they have laid down their lives so that we could be free. And Lord, I thank you for those that stand in harm's way now, who may be called upon in days to come to lay down their lives for our freedoms yet. I thank you, Lord, that although our freedom must continually be mained by perpetual sacrifice, that our salvation was settled long ago. I thank you for the final sacrifice of the Lord Jesus. Oh Father, make it so clear to our hearts today that we'll love thee more, that we'll draw closer and adore and worship you for who you are. We pray and ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said Amen. You can be seated. Thank you. In your Bible, in Hebrews chapter number ten, in fact the whole book of Hebrews is a constant comparison Of the Lord Jesus to all the sacrifices, the covenant, all of the ceremonies and rituals. The priesthood, all of those things, the temple, all of those things under the old economy. It is as if the Apostle Paul would take all of that and draw pictures here on one side, and then he would always draw another picture, and that picture would be of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. And he would always come to the same conclusion. And by the way, if you're honest this morning, you'll always come to the same conclusion. Jesus is better than. He's always better than anything that you compare him to. There's absolutely nothing you can stand alongside of him that even begins to come to the level of who he is. But as we look at the sacrifice that he's describing here, in the first part of this chapter, I want you to consider those failing sacrifices. And I say they're failing because they failed to do what Jesus accomplished. They did not come for that purpose. In fact, look at verse 1. Here's the answer for this. The law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things. So the the law and all of its sacrifices and all of its rituals and all of its ceremonies, it was not intended to be the substance. It was the shadow. It was intended to draw a picture for you. It was intended to paint a portrait. It was intended for you to have something to look at and say, oh, I see him more clearly. I see a little bit better that that's what he did. That's who he is. That's what he represents. Dr. Hitchens mentioned this verse in Sunday school this morning. He ever liveth to make intercession for us. And that Old Testament priest, he lived to represent God to the people. And he lived to represent the people to God. And this morning, if you're saved, you have a Savior who's in heaven, who's ever living. He's alive right now. And he's representing you to God. That's why you can have fellowship with God, because he's representing you there. You say, but preacher, what about my sin? What happens if I sin? The Bible says, if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. So not only is he ever living to intercede, he's ever living to advocate on my behalf. He's he's my advocate, he's pleading my case. And so not only can I have fellowship, but I can have forgiveness for sin simply because Jesus ever lives. So that's a picture. That Old Testament priest is a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we come to the sacrifice. And the sacrifice it says, look what it says in verse 10 again. Can never, with those sacrifices which they offered year by year, continually make the comers thereunto perfect For then would they not have ceased to be offered? In other words, if they were the answer, they would have not been replaced. Because that the worshippers once purged should have no more conscience of sins. But in those sacrifices, there's a remembrance again made of sins every year. Look at this, for it is not possible, verse 4. It's not possible, that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins. It's not possible. I want you to think with me about the failing sacrifice. The failing sacrifices referenced here in the of course the Old Testament sacrifices, they failed number one to completely save. Do you see what it says in verse 2? It says that they could never, with those sacrifices which they offered year by year, continually make the comers thereunto perfect. You say, well what did they do? They put off judgment. They put off judgment, they put off judgment until the cross. And it had to be continually done year by year. Make the comers thereunto perfect. It failed to completely save. It's very important to understand this because he's going to compare it to something else here in just a moment, but these these sacrifices could not completely save. Those Old Testament saints By the way, those Old Testament saints didn't go to heaven until after the resurrection. Because it couldn't make them perfect. It was impossible. It could not make them perfect. It could not completely save. Then I want you to notice number two, the failing sacrifice could not clear their conscience. For then, notice what it says, would they not have ceased to be offered, because that the worshippers once purged should have no more conscience of sin. So it was impossible these failing sacrifices could not completely save and they could not clear the conscience. Do you know something as a New Testament believer? You have something that those Old Testament believers did not have? You have that renewed conscience. The awareness of the removal of sin. Now covering is different than removing. In the Old Testament, sin was removed. On Calvary, excuse me, in the Old Testament, sin was covered. In the New Testament, sin 's removed. Now it was pictured in the Old Testament when that uh that scapegoat was taken. And that scapegoat, one one the goat one was sacrificed. You remember the hand was placed on the head, the priest placed the hand on the head, and he confessed the sin. And in doing so, in doing so , He transferred in picture the sins that the people had committed on that animal, and that animal would take and pay the price. But there was another animal that was taken and he was released into the wilderness. That other animal was taken and he was turned loose. And when that animal was turned loose, he was left to go free. He was set free. And listen, when you get saved, I don't want to get ahead of myself, but when you get saved God does what these sacrifices could not do. He purges your conscience. He clears it. Thank God for an answer for the conscience of man's Troubled that that that's troubled over sin. There's a clearing and the blood clears it all. Couldn't clear the conscience though And then we see in verses 3 and 4 that in those sacrifices there is a remembrance again made of sins every year. Every year on the Day of Atonement. Do you know what was drug up? Sin. Every year they had to face that sin nationally as a people. And by the way, every time they sinned, they had to face it in the temple and go make sacrifice. They had to take and make an offering. There had to be a constant remembering, a constant uh re recurring of all of those past sins. And so we see that failing sacrifice, according to verse number four, it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins. Frankly, the sacrifices failed to settle the sin issue. They failed to settle it once and for all. And by the way, everything outside of Jesus Christ fails too. You may be sitting here hoping that somehow your good will outweigh your bad. That'll never answer your sin. That'll never settle your conscience. That'll never put your sin away. That'll never make you a new creature. You may be sitting here saying, But I'm a member of the church. Surely that'll answer my sin. But being a member of a church will not answer for your sin. Being a member of a church will not take the guilt, the condemnation that you live under as a sinner. You say, but preacher, I've been baptized in water. I've been, maybe you've been baptized in special water, you say. You know, these make these pilgrimages over to Israel and get baptized in the Jordan River. Reb understood why saved people want to redo what they did. And and and in dirtier water. Right? Dirtier water. The reality is that that doesn't make you any more saved. You know what that is? That's faith in a religious ritual. You put your confidence in some sort of religious ritual. Beloved, it's not the waters of Jordan or the waters of Elkin that wash your sin away. It's the blood of Jesus Christ. All these other sacrifices will fail you. They fail you, and they fail. Listen, you say, but preacher, I'm I'm really trusting in that prayer I prayed. I'm trusting in the fact that I prayed and I asked the Lord to be my Savior. Now hold on just a minute. You say, preacher, what's wrong with that? Not a thing if you're trusting in the Lord. But if you're trusting in your prayer, you need to be saved. If you're trusting in your prayer, you need to be saved. People say, well, I I've said that prayer, I must be okay. Hold on a minute. Are you trusting the prayer of the Lord? I'm not saying that to cause anybody to doubt. I'm saying that because we have created a God out of a prayer. I suffered from the hands of that silliness for a long time. Well meaning. I'm going to give him that benefit of the doubt. Evangelist stood and said, if you can't remember what you prayed, then you're not saved. Well, if you know me well, I I I didn't have a good memory then, and it it's gotten much worse now. And the reality is I couldn't remember. I didn't remember it. I tried hard. I said, God, bring it back. You're a God of miracles. Help me remember what I prayed. Did I pray the right prayer? And then I'd hear somebody say, Well, if you didn't weep, you didn't get saved And I could did I weep? Did I weep enough? Was I sad enough? Was I sorry enough? I mean, listen, you could go on and on and on. And you know all that is? That's additions to our Through our south. That's saying, look, if you don't meet my requirements, then you're not saved. But I've got news for you. All of that fails to save. It fails to save you. Listen, just like those sacrifices could not save these dear Old Testament saints All the things that you and I fill in the blanks with outside of Jesus Christ will fail to save you in the end. You and I need to make sure that what we're trusting in is the death, burial, and resurrection of the living Lord Jesus Christ. And if you've trusted anything else, you've been duped. The devil's deceived you. I meet people all the time. They live like hell and they say I'm going to heaven. Why? Because I prayed with somebody at my door I prayed over here. And you say, well, is it their living that's taken to hell? No, it's the fact they're dead in their sin and their trespasses. The fact that they need to be born again, they need to trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, friend, understand something here this morning that Jesus Christ and Jesus Christ alone can save you. Now look again at the text. We've looked at the sacrifices that fail, and everything outside of the Lord Jesus will fail. Everything outside of the Lord Jesus will let you down. Everything outside of the Lord Jesus will disappoint. There is nothing that can save you but Him. You say, but but preacher, now listen, I had somebody pray for me. I had somebody pray over me. Beloved, that person can't save you. I remember saying to my pastor as a little boy, I said, Preacher , I want you to tell me if I'm saved or not. And I'll never forget, he dropped his head and he said, Son, I can't do that. I don't have the authority to do that. I don't have the ability to do that. I'll tell you there's only one who can save you. And that is the Lord Jesus. And there's only one who can tell you you're saved, and that's the Lord Jesus. But beloved, when He settles the issue, when He is the determining factor It doesn't matter what other men may say. What matters is what Jesus has already said. Years ago, I was in a meeting. And some dear people were discussing this thing of salvation, and this lady said to me, she said, Well, what verse did you claim? I said, well, ma'am, I can't really be honest with you, I can't remember claiming a verse. I said, there are many verses that brought me comfort. There were many verses that brought me encouragement But I'll have to be honest, I I can't I can't say that I claimed a particular verse and then here's what she said. Now, in this particular domination they couldn't talk in church, but boy they made up for it when they got out Shere's what she said. She said, then you're not saved. I said, I beg your pardon And that emboldened her husband a little bit, and he kind of got his little feathers up, and he said, Yes, that's correct. If you don't claim a verse, you're not saved. I said, Fancy that. The reality that I did not claim a verse, and I said to this dear man, I said, Sir, what saves me, Jesus Christ or a verse? And then he got real technical. He said, You know the word is God. And God's word. I said, Yeah, that's right. I believe all I believe that with my whole heart. But here's here's the truth. Am I trusting in a verse? See, that's a work salvation. Do you realize that? Because I claimed that verse. I got a hold of it I'm going to tell you something. When God saves you, you don't get a hold of nothing. He gets a hold of you. It's not what you do, it's what he does in your heart. Salvation is a wonderful work of God. Salvations of the Lord. I'm glad to report to you this morning that what all of these things fail to do What's your prayers? What's your claiming verses? What's your church affiliation? What's your water baptism? What's your puny feeble efforts to do right? What all of that fails to do, Jesus Christ does right good and adequately and thoroughly, because he saves to the uttermost those that come to God by him. Now look with me please at this final sacrifice. Beginning in verse number ten, the Bible says, by the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. If you're making notes this morning, I want you to notice the finality of the sacrifice. The finality. Once. By the way, you see those two words for all? They're italicized in your King James Bible, and it's simply there for clarity of understanding or reading. The literal, the idea here is once, and it's done. Just finished. Once. Doesn't need to be done again. It's a final sacrifice. A final sacrifice. Get a hold of that, beloved. That it was a final sacrifice. There needs feed no other. Calvary will never happen again. You know that? He'll never come and die on the cross ever again. He will never be hung on the Calvary to be viewed. He'll never die on another cross. He'll never never shed another drop of blood. It was once, once for all. That sacrifice is final. Let me ask you a question. Is that good enough for you? Amen. Is good enough for him. It was good enough for God. I believe what dawned on Martin Luther's heart when he understood that the just shall live by faith is that all the works he had been involved in. We're not contributing to his salvation. In fact , they were strengthening his damnation. They were adding to his condemnation See, religion can be as big a yoke as as anything else. It can be as big a burden on your heart and take you down to hell just as quick as anything else Why you can die and go to hell from a church pew, a Baptist church pew, an Independent Baptist Church pew, a Maranatha Baptist Church pew, just as well as you can die and go to hell from anywhere else. But then it dawned on him. The just shall live by faith. What? Christ died for my sin? It's finished. These rituals of climbing stairs on your knees and lighting candles and praying prayers. All of that's vain. I met a group of people years ago I visited in their home and they had it scared the daylights out of me to be honest, they had what looked like a torture chamber. I thought, whoo, they said, come in. I said, no, thank you But they had these racks in there that they would tie themselves up to and they would flog themselves They were an extreme group of part of the Roman Catholic Church, but they were a charismatic group, and they believed that their sufferings help atone for their sin. And they would flail themselves. These people would beat themselves and take turns beating one another and and shed blood. And somehow or another, I'll tell you all it did. It might have released a little bit of guilt in their heart. Or a little bit of uh a feeling of troubled conscience, but it never answered their sin. Because I'm going to tell you what Year 2,000 years ago, somebody was beating my place. Two thousand years ago, somebody's hands were pierced with nails. Two thousand years ago they pierced his side and crowned his head and the precious blood that flowed from that hill. Answered for my sin once for all. The finality of this sacrifice, there need be no other. Amen. I remember hearing Brother Ralph say he used to get on his knees to pray, and if he happened to kneel on a rock, he said he'd just stay there simply, you know, to make a sacrifice. He said, I'm glad I grew up and got spiritual enough to realize get up and get the rock off under your knees and then kneel back down. Because all my suffering doesn't do anything about my sin. I'm glad there's one who died for me. I I don't know why he loved me like that, but I'm sure glad he did. The finality. Do you hear me? The finality of that sacrifice. Shame on us for getting over that. Shame on us for making that old hat. Oh, preacher, I've heard it. You know, I I sometimes get tired of preaching to gospel gluttons. They sleep and snooze and snore and just kind of yawn and sigh and say, oh well, oh well, you're not going to hell. Oh well? Thank God we're saved, church. Ask God to help you. If you've got over it, get back into it and get right with God and say, Lord, help me again. Help me again. Oh Lord, help us. Thank God for some hungry people. I was telling somebody I preached somewhere not long ago and boy those people were hungry and I'll tell you what, they about killed me preaching. But it was a good killing. I'd just as soon die that way as any other way. But the truth is God's gotta stir our hearts, church, one sacrifice. Just one. We don't come here to get right with God as far as our sin issues settled. You say, well, I'm in church today. I hope it just kind of gives me a good mark with God. It's not going to give you a good mark with God. There's only one thing that'll answer for that. Your sin has separated you from the Lord. And your sin will take you to hell one day. And your sin has cut you off from the life of God. And there's only one answer. There's only one thing you can insert in that question mark in that spot. And that is Jesus Christ, the blessed Son of God, who shed his blood, who died, was buried, and rose again the third day. Thank God for the finality of Jesus Christ's sacrifice once and for all. Number two, look at this forever. Two times, did you notice when we read it verses twelve and fourteen? That this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins, do you see it? What is the word? Forever. Sat down on the right hand of God. Verse 14 for by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. Do you see that? Forever? I hear people talk about happily ever after. Well, you gotta work on a happily ever after, don't you? Well what Jesus did, he did it forever. Forever. Forever. What does that mean? Well, I'm just simple enough, believe it means what it says. Means forever. Forever means there's no ending to it. Forever means there's no there's no stopping point. It goes on and on and on and on forever. Forever one sacrifice for sins. By the way, his very posture, his very posture preaches the message. Do you notice he sat down? Look at verse 11. What does the priest do? Stands daily. See the difference? Why is one standing and one sitting? Because the one sitting has finished the work. There's nothing else to do. He's forever settled. Forever it's settled. Forever it's done. Listen, you you you and I need to understand that when you get saved, it it is something you enter into that's forever It's forever. It's forever. There's no there's no ending to it. People say, do you believe in a salvation that's forever? I just believe the Bible. Because the Bible says salvation is forever. He said, I give unto them eternal life, and God is smart enough to know the right words to use. And had he meant temporary life until I messed up, he would have put it in clause and said until. But there's no until. It's eternal life. And he said, they shall never perish. Thank God for that gift of eternal life. And and I like this. Look what he says about us who are saved, for by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. Forever. Do you realize you're as saved now as you're ever gonna be? In one true sense Oh, I know that we live in a body that's fallen and we'll have to replace that one day. We'll get a glorified one. Thank the Lord. But the truth is, I'm as saved right now as I'm ever going to be. You're never going to be any more saved than you are currently. Because he's perfected forever. Preacher, I just I I hope one day I'll feel more saved. Well, that don't change nothing. You may feel more saved or less saved, but you if you're saved, you're saved. And you're as saved right now as if you was walking streets of gold. You're as saved right now if you were standing in the presence of angels You're as saved right now as if you were hearing the blessed words of the mouth out of the mouth of the Lord Jesus that we're going to hear in glory one day. If you're saved, you're saved forever. Perfected forever Thank God for a salvation like that. Oh how real, how real. How real it is. Preacher, I just don't know about that. You know what you're doing? Stop putting question marks where God's put periods. Stop stop questioning what God's already settled. Listen, every time and that and I know, I know full well what I'm speaking of here. I know that battle of saying. Well now, but Lord did I. And and you know what I had to get down to? I had to get down to the reality that it ain't about I. Did I, did I, did I, did I? It ain't about I. It's about him. He saves to the uttermost. He's the one that redeemed my wretched soul. And he perfected me forever. Isn't that amazing? Complete. Entire. Salvation's full. It's full. We're not hanging around hoping God will add more. We've entered into what He's already done. We're thanking God for a full salvation that's full. It's free. He's perfected forever. Every one of you are safe. Now look, when you got up this morning, you didn't look too perfect, did you? And and there's there's a whole lot of growing to do? Yes. Positionally, I'm perfected forever. In the eye let me say it like this, in the eyes of whom it matters I'm complete. I'm far from complete to you. You're far from complete to me. But in the eyes of the one who matters, perfected forever. Them that are sanctified. That's the work of Christ. Is he i is he not more precious than anything in that he would do this for you and I? Who and what are we who and what are we to have such a salvation from the Lord? And I'll tell you, a lot of times we we say, well, I just don't want to say that, or I want to be careful about that. Listen, we're not bragging about us. We're bragging about him. We're bragging about what he's done. He did this. It's his salvation. It's the work of God in salvation. He's the one that made us perfect and complete in him. Quickly. Notice verse 17. I want you to see a forgetting. This final sacrifice, the finality of it, the forever of it, and the forgetting of it. He says in verse 17, their sins and iniquities will I remember no more. That's a promise. God said that. And what makes it more marvelous is that the omniscient God said that. The God who knows everything. The God who knows all things. The God who knows everything, past and present future, as if all in one span, the God Who knows every thought and intent and motive, the God who knows all of that said, I will remember their sins and iniquities no more. What a what a mercy that he would forget my sin. Remember that old song? I I don't know where it came from, but what sins are you talking about? I think the inspirations used to sing that if my memory is right. What sins are you talking about? You know the truth is when you go to uh worrying about all the sin that's under the blood, you know what you're doing? You're bringing up something God don't even remember. He forgot it. I'll tell you what, you won't forget it down here. Chances are it'll be hard to get out of your head. Others won't forget it, that's for sure, and some even delight in bringing it up. But there's a God in heaven who said, I will remember it no more. I remember it no more. He don't look at you as what you were, he looks at you as what you are. What a mercy. Preacher, I can't get my head around it. I can't either, but it sure makes my heart swell a little bit. In appreciation for the fact that he would love me like that. That he would show a mercy to me in such fashion. Their sins and their iniquities I will remember no more. Now look at verse 18, please. Now , come to a conclusion here. Now, where remission of these is sins and iniquities, there's no more offering for sin. The word remission here means to let go as if never committed. Oh, I know it has the meaning of pardon and forgiveness. That's true. But it's such a pardon and such a forgiveness that it's as if the sin was never committed. That's remission. And you know what he said? Because of the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus, my sins are remitted. They're gone. They're gone. It's as if I never did them. It's as if I never am guilty. I wasn't guilty. You know, I guess that if you have a criminal record, there's certain steps you can take to go um Get your record clear. There's certain things that you can get expunged from your record and so that when somebody pulls up your record It it's gone. It's gone. It's not there. By the way, the world we live in, that record will hang around a long time. And if that record's on the internet, it's even more visible and will be, it seems like eternal. You know, years ago when I was a boy we thought it would be fun to Go up on this mountain road and spin the tires, you know? How many of you remember spinning tires was fun? Then you realize how much they cost. And so we had taken some things up there and we wanted to get some good pictures, you know, of our vehicles coming out of that smoke. You know. And so none of us had vehicles power powerful enough to make smoke on its own, except what came out the exhaust. So we'd make us a temporary oil slick with bleach and motor oil, use motor oil, and get in the middle of that, and man, I'll tell you we'd set the woods on fire with all that smoke Well, we learned in a hurry that when you're on the Blue Ridge Parkway, that's federal land. So you don't get a little ticket from a mount from a county officer, you get a federal offense that registers as a misdemeanor on your record. And I had long, long, long, long, long, long, long forgot that until we started to cross the border. And they asked questions like, Do you have a record? And I said, Absolutely not. I've never been to jail. I don't have a record. Well, according to the U. S. Forest Service I did, I had a record of uh automobile offense of spinning tires on that federal land. Mercy me. Who'd ever thought it? And I'm going to tell you something, if there's one mark on your record, heaven cannot be entered. But God says God says, I'm not saying it, he said it. Where remission of these is There is no more offering for sin. The record's clear. Brother, sister, if you're saved, your record's clear. Your record's pure. Your record listen your record and by the way your record's on high. That's where the record's kept. Your record is clear in the eyes of God. I hear people say, now preacher, you talk like that and folk just want to go live like the devil. No, they won't. They'll want to live real close to the one who did that for them. They'll want to fall at his feet and love him and please him. Why? Because he did something nobody else could do. He made my record clear. My title's clean. My record's clear. All because of what Jesus did. One final sacrifice. If you're sitting here today and you're still trying to do something about your sin, stop. I beg you, stop. I met dear people this week. God put a burden in my heart for them. And they're not religious. They claim a religion, but they're not religious. And they they they believe somehow or another they're going to answer for their sin with their religion. I got news for you. You're not going to do it. You're going to go on in misery. You're going to go on lost. You're going to go on head for hell. And if you don't get saved, you'll end up in hell. But there's an answer this morning. Stop trying to get your sin settled, your sin issue settled. It's already been settled. Long ago, Jesus died for you. You Jesus shed his blood for you. Jesus went to the grave for you. Jesus got up out of the grave for you. Jesus calls upon you today. He calls upon you. Come to him and be saved. Come to him and find rest. You come to the Lord Jesus and he'll take you. All men may turn away. Religion may shun you. But the Savior, Jesus Christ, stands ready to save you. I'm reading a book now by Billy Bray, the Shouton Methodist, and he was a Cornish miner in England. And he was a wicked, vile man. The churches didn't want him because of his ways and his wickedness. The people didn't like him being around. He was so rotten and evil. But he said one day, he heard the gospel And he said, it dawned in my heart that there could be mercy for me. And he said, I began to cry out and I began to pray. And he said, in short time, Jesus Christ met him and saved him. And he said, Many a religious society rejected me because they feared me too evil to be saved. He said, I'm glad Jesus didn't. They called him a shouting method. He said, I can't help it. He said, I pick up one leg and it says glory. I pick up the other and it says hallelujah. He said everywhere I go I say glory, hallelujah. And he did, boy, he was alive wire. But you know what he realized? He had been saved by the grace of God. I believe there's some saved folk need to realize they're saved. You what I'm saying? They need to understand what the Lord's done. You need to rest. You know, you you can get in a car and if you're not the one driving. I pray for you. But if you get in a car and you're not the one driving, you can sit there tense and stiff and Scared and it's not going to change the outcome. The person holding the wheel is in charge. You just gotta ride. And do like some of us do, pray God, don't let me die. But ride. That's all you gotta do. Some of you precious people, and I say this with a heavy heart, you're saved, but you're not rested. And you're tense and trying and hoping and struggling and maybe and thinking and hoping and but if you just rest in what Jesus did. What a place to put your head. What a place to my faith. Has your faith faith found a resting place? Not in device nor creed. Who do we trust? We trust the ever-living one. His wounds for me shall plead. Oh, will you trust him? Just rest. He's more willing, I believe, to save us than we are to even to be saved. Calvary proves that over and over. Are you a Christian today? I mean, are you born again? Have you trusted in what Jesus did? If not, do it without delay. Call upon him while you have an opportunity. Cry out to him. I don't believe God stops his ear when a sinner says, God have mercy on me and my sin. I don't believe he turns a uh a cold, hard look the other way and gives you the cold shoulder. He says, come. If you're thirsty, you come. If you're hungry, you come. If you're dying in your sin, come. He invites you to come. Will you trust him today? Dear brother or sister, how precious is Jesus to you. How precious is he to you. He ought to be the most important person in all of our lives. Because he's done what nobody else could do. There's a lot of important people in my life. And a whole bunch of them are in this church right now. But I'm going to tell you something. There's somebody who did something for me no one else could do. There's one King, one Lord, one salvation, one master. Do you love him like you ought to love him? Are you close to him like we ought to stay close to him? May the Lord help us. Would you bow your heads and stand with me, please? Brother, come with our invitation him Maybe as a child of God, let me just appeal to your heart this morning. Just find a place of prayer and thank him for dying for you. Put