Take your copy of the Word of God and turn with me to Jeremiah chapter 20. Jeremiah chapter number twenty And when you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand. We're going to read beginning in verse number seven down to verse number 13. Jeremiah chapter number twenty, starting in verse number seven. The Bible reads, O Lord. Thou hast deceived me, and I was deceived. Thou art stronger than I, and hast prevailed. I am in derision daily. Everyone mocketh me. For since I spake, I cried out, I cried violence and spoil. Because the word of the Lord was made a reproach unto me and a derision daily. Then I said, I will not make mention of him, nor speak any more in his name. But his word was in mine heart as a burning fire shut up in my bones. And I was weary with forbearing, and I could not stay. For I heard the defaming of many, fear on every side. Report, say they, and we will report it. All my familiars watch for my halting, saying, Peradventure he will be enticed, and we shall prevail against him, and we shall take our revenge on him. But the Lord is with me as a mighty terrible one. Therefore, my persecutors shall stumble, and they shall not prevail. They shall be greatly ashamed, for they shall not prosper. Their everlasting confusion shall never be forgotten. But, O Lord of hosts, that tries the righteous and seest the reigns in the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them For unto thee have I opened my cause. Sing unto the Lord. Praise ye the Lord, for ye hath delivered the soul of the poor from the hand of evildoers. Correctly read, that's Jeremiah chapter 20, verses 7 to 13. My text this evening is found in verse number 9. I'm interested in this burning fire. That burning fire. And the Lord helping me this evening, I want to preach on that fire within. That fire within. Let's pray. Father, again, we come before you. We're grateful for this opportunity. Thank you for what we've already heard. Lord, I thank you for the songs that we've sung together as a congregation I thank you for the great truths that we've been reminded of by the choir. I thank you, Lord, for the special. I do praise you that you are the answer. Oh, may that ever be our words, our testimony, Lord, sure the answer. I thank you, Lord, for our brother's testimony of salvation, the work of grace you did in his heart. Lord, we're trusting you to do that and so many more. We're asking, Lord, tonight that you would help us now as your people. Would you settle us and separate us from the cares of life? The distractions even of this hour. Keep our eyes firmly fixed on you. God, please give us ears to hear what it is that you desire to say to our heart. And help us, Lord, to be able to leave from here saying, we've been helped. And Lord, that'll be because you helped us. We're looking to you for that. So Father, in mercy, please hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up Jesus. Please, please work in all of our hearts as you see the need and fit and May your will be done, and we'll be careful to bow our heads and give you the glory, for we are a needy people. But we're so grateful we bow before such a benevolent, merciful, gracious Father. We love you and we praise you for loving us and thank you now and pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said , Amen. You can be seated. I trust you're familiar with this passage that I just read I don't know how early in the life and ministry of Jeremiah that he got to this place, but nonetheless, Jeremiah got to the place where this Fire was burning deep in his heart. In fact, the fire in Jeremiah's heart would not let him quit. It was a fire that kept him going when he didn't want to go anymore. It was a fire that kept him moving in the right direction. Now, you've got to remember something. Jeremiah was a prophet in a very dark hour. He was a prophet to a people that were ripe for judgment. God 's judgment was quickly coming. Jeremiah told about it. He said, You need to wake up. We're going to be carried away. There's going to be the the judgment of God. There's no need to fight against the Babylonians. They're going to carry you off. We're going to be taken into captivity. But God told Jeremiah when he first started that the people would not listen. Now I want you to see this. Would you go back to the first chapter? Jeremiah chapter number one. And it's interesting to me that God's call came to Jeremiah at such an unusual time. You say, when did it come? It came in his mother's womb. God ordained him to be a prophet. And you say, explain that. Well, I can't. But I do it, I know it's what the Bible says. And he says in verse 5, he said, Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. And before thou camest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee, I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. But I want you to see what he tells him here. Look over in verse 15. He says, For lo, I will call all the families of the kingdoms of the north. Saith the Lord, and they shall come, and they shall set every one his throne at the entering of the gates of Jerusalem. And against all the walls thereof round about, and against all the cities of Judah. And I will utter my judgments against them, touching all their wickedness, who have forsaken me and have burnt incense unto other gods. And worship the works of their own hands. By the way, sort of sounds like America today, don't it? An idolatrous people, a people who've turned from the true God, who worship before other gods who are not gods at all But nevertheless, that's where Jeremiah was and where we seem to be. Now here's what he says in verse 17. Thou therefore gird up thy loins. And arise and speak unto them all that I command thee. He said, Now, Jeremiah, I want you to strengthen yourself. I want you to get ready. I want you to be prepared. And I want you to say everything I tell you to say. Now, you study the book of Jeremiah and you'll find out that he had to say some very hard things. Because some very hard things needed to be said. But yet he said them because God told him to save them. And look at this. He said, Be not dismayed at their faces, lest I confound thee before them. He said, don't let the way they look at you make you afraid or discouraged or lose heart. For behold, verse 18, I have made thee this day a defense city and an iron pillar, and brazen walls against the whole land, against the kings of Judah, against the princes thereof, against the priests thereof. And against the people of the land. Now read all that to get here. Verse 19. And they, these people, he's got to preach to And they shall fight against thee, but they shall not prevail against thee, for I am with thee, saith the Lord to deliver thee. I want you to notice that they shall fight against thee. Jeremiah's message was not only unpopular, but Jeremiah's message was unheeded. They didn't listen. And and they began to fight against Jeremiah and began to oppose him and and and you I I trust you've studied and read this book or will, and you'll find that that that Jeremiah was Often imprisoned because of what he said. He was ridiculed and mocked. And all of that to say it wasn't easy to do what God had called him to do Now let me just say this. If you're going to serve the Lord, don't expect an easy road. If you're going to follow the Lord, you you might as well mark her down. You're going to be like a fish swimming upstream. It's not going to be easy. It's a lie of the devil that tells you that if you're doing right, everything will go your way. If that be true, over ninety percent of the Bible authors, the men who God uh used to give us the Word of God They lived a life in disobedience to the Lord because they suffered greatly following Christ. I believe if we're faithful to the Lord, we'll face the frown of the world. If we're faithful to the Lord, we will face the frown of the world. We're not going to be the world's friend. We are not going to have the the smile. Listen, if if somebody said, if you want everybody to like you, go sell ice cream. Don't live for Jesus. But if you live for the Lord Jesus, just get ready. Now l let me just insert something here. I think some people try to make the path harder than what it should be We invite judgment or we invite opposition by our simple unkindness. I I'm not advocating that at all. It'll come looking for you if you're doing right. But here we find Jeremiah had a had a fight. And and go back to the text and and I want you to see the circumstance Just by way of introduction, and you'll notice there in verses 7 and 8, Jeremiah's a bit disillusioned here. He says, Lord, thou hast deceived me, and I was deceived. If I can say it like this, Jeremiah was complaining a little bit. Jeremiah had gotten down a little bit. Now, Lord, I didn't think it was going to be this way. And when I read that I immediately thought of that first chapter, and God said, They're going to fight you, Jeremiah. He'd already told me how many times do we know it's going to be a certain way, but we're still shocked when it is You know, i it's you know I I told a dentist one time, I said, now just be level with me. Don't tell me it's gonna peach. If it's gonna hurt, say, man, this is gonna hurt So I can get ready for it. I don't like to be deceived. I mean if it i if it's gonna feel like you've taken the top of my head off, just tell me that. Don't deceive me. God didn't deceive Jeremiah. He was quite plain with him. Jeremiah, they will fight against you. Jeremiah, they will not heed you. Jeremiah, you are going to be ridiculed and you're going to be made fun of. Jeremiah, this is what you're going to face. And yet here he faces it, and Jeremia says, Lord, you deceived me. Such is our nature. We often hear, but we don't hear what the Lord says. Well, not only did he say, I've been deceived, he he goes on, he says, I am in derision daily. Everyone mocketh me. Jeremiah had few friends in his life. In fact, it seemed like some of the friends that Jeremiah had seemed to turn against him later on and even would turn his words. He said, My familiars Remember reading that down there, verse 10? All my familiars watched for my halting. The people that were close to Jeremiah were watching, and what were they watching for? They were watching for Jeremiah to mess up And they wanted him to mess up. Now, Lord help us, please. And and Lord help me to be helpful here. But you know, sometimes as Christians, if we're not careful, we'll get that attitude and we'll just wait for somebody to falter. We ought not to be that way. We say things. I heard a man say one time a fella uh kind of messed up. He was trying to live for the Lord and he messed up. And and here's what he said. I I knew it wasn't real anyway And then boy, that bothered me. I said, sir, when's the last time you prayed for that man? When did you when was the last time you got on your knees and said, now Lord help him? He seems to be struggling. But Jeremiah was surrounded by people who were just waiting for him to mess up. You ever feel like that's the way people watch you as a Christian? They're just waiting for you to mess up. On your job, you probably work with people and they're just waiting for you to lose your temper. They're just waiting for you to blow your testimony. They're just waiting for you to do something. They're just watching and they're saying, I I know He's going to. He's not real. And I'm just watching and I'm waiting. Boy, that's a discouraging circumstance. That's where Jeremiah is. Jeremiah was considered a fool for what he believed and preached. By the way, if you're a believer here tonight, this world considers you a fool for what you believe and preach. What you stand for don't make a lick of sense to them. What you believe in, it just seems foolish. It seems silly. I'd almost venture to say there's people drive by this building every time we gather and say, look at those crazy people Don't they have something better to do on Sunday? Don't they have somewhere better to be than to go in there and hear somebody yell at them out of the Bible? Don't you know that's the way the world looks at us? That's where Jeremiah was. He said, I'm a derision. I'm in derision daily. Everyone mocketh me. That's his circumstances. And I believe partly due to that, Jeremiah makes a choice. Doesn't make a good one. And by the way, I believe the Bible's an inspired book because it shows the good, the bad, and the ugly of men. If man had written the Bible, he'd have left some parts out. He wouldn't have included the faults and failures of great men I know I told you this, but I remember getting enamored with a certain man. I was reading his biography, and someone said to me, a dear preacher brother said to me, he said, remember they only write the good stuff. That's all they write. That man was a man, my dad used to say, every man puts his breeches on the same way, one leg at a time. That just means we're all the same. That's what he was saying. Jeremiah's uh here and he and he makes a choice and it's a sad choice. It's a I I believe it's even a sinful choice. He said this, I will not make mention of him. nor speak any more in his name. You know what he said? Can I translate for you? I quit. That's what he said. You ever been in a quitting spot? I'm trying this evening to help you to get ready for the quitting spots that'll come this year. There'll be some quitting spots come along. There'll be some times that you'll say, I'm done. I'm finished. I can't do no more. I'm not going any further. Jeremiah, that great prophet, that weeping prophet, that testimony that even the Lord Jesus commended, Jeremiah said, I quit. He got in a quitting spot and he made the choice. Now look, you're going to get to them. Oh, you may not be there now. You might be riding the high. You might be Uh running well. You might be right encouraged. You might be refreshed in your spirit. But I promise you there will come a quitting spot. There'll come a place that you'll say, I'm finished, Lord. I'm finished, Lord. I was just thinking this afternoon, a pastor said to me, he said, never resign on Monday. Never write your resignation on Monday. He said, too many men resign on Monday that change their mind on Tuesday. Monday's a quitting spot for a lot of preachers. But there's quitting spots. Even whether you're a preacher or not, there's a quitting spot. There's a place. where it just gets too hard, it's too difficult, you're tired of being uh uh laughed at, you you get uh under the pressure of ridicule and you say, I'm through, I can't go on. The the road gets too rough and you say, I am finished. I quit. That's what Jeremiah did. But I want you to see how he conquered that. Because the very next sentence starts with this word, but Here there's there's there's an intervention. There's something uh not something, there's someone who steps in and says it's not gonna happen You you may have made the decision. How many of you know you made some decisions God overruled? Thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord, for the times you've overruled my decisions. Because there's times we made decisions and God overruled them. And Jeremiah said, I I quit, I'm done, I'm finished, but But there's something going on inside of me that won't let me. That's what he said He said, but his word was in mine heart as a burning fire shut up in my bones, and I was weary with forbearing. And look at this, I could not stay. You know what he was saying? I just can't quit. I want to, but I can't. I can't quit. There is a fire burning in me that will not let me quit. I'm interested in getting that fire going. Uh it's the purpose of of this message tonight to encourage you to fuel that fire. I never had really been around too many steam engines until Brother Bobby told us about the Tuckahoe. uh show down there in the summer and Joe and I went down and and uh watched some some of these gigantic tractors uh are are powered just by simple steam. But boy they build up this fire and they and that fire heats that water and builds that steam and that head of steam is what begins to move that piece of equipment. But but I noticed something about that is that you had to do something with that steam when you wanted to stop, or else that thing would just keep going Because that fire and that heat made that water so hot and that steam so abundant that it would keep going if you didn't let the pressure off. You see, there was something inside of it that was stronger than whatever opposition might come against it And Jeremiah had such a fire burning in his heart that he could not quit. This fire within him overcame the obstacles that were without him. That fire burning in him was such a fire that the the the opposition, the ridicule, the shame, the reproach, the derision, even the so-called deception, the disillusionment All of that could not stop him because the fire was burning so bright. I'm interested in us getting that fire going if it's not burning already. How do we fuel that fire? First off, let me say this: this fire is a fire of love and devotion for the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not a fire of enthusiasm. Let me just say that. It's not a fire of excitement. No, no. It's not a fire of just emotional energy that gets worked up. You know, you can work, get worked up over things. And get excited about something, you know. The new year seems to get people excited. And uh all all there's all kinds of things that get us emotionally worked up And and I'll be honest with you, I am one hundred and ten percent against using emotionalism to stir people up in the house of God. I believe that's a sin. I believe it's a fleshly attempt to do what only the Holy Ghost can do. Now God stirs you up. I'm not going to throw no water on it. If God in heaven puts a fire burning in you, I'm going to come by and blow on it because I want it to burn brighter. But but just mirror it emotionalism and enthusiasm and excitement while you can go sit in a ballgame My brother took me down to see uh Clemson play football one time, and he said, this is gonna be something like you've never experienced. I'd never been to a football game, didn't at really care a whole lot about it. But but I noticed something sitting there in that stadium of what, eighty thousand? I don't know how many of that thing seats. But I remember sitting in that stadium and I was sort of getting excited about what was going on, even though I didn't care about what was going on. I was getting excited because everybody else was excited. Man, my brother was a fanatic. He he was painted orange, had orange clothes on. Tiger stripes on his vehicles. I mean he just was crazy. And uh I I remember just looking at all these people and and they're cheering for the for their team and they're And and you know, before it was over, I found myself getting excited. And I was I was cheering, and I don't cheer. I didn't I didn't even know what was going on, to be honest with you. I just knew they must have been going the right direction But I got all worked up. We got in the car and went home, and what I did, I went to sleep. I didn't care no more after it's over than I did for a went, but I just got excited. You didn't get worked up. You can get emotional, you can get enthused. I'm not talking about that. This is not the fire I'm talking about. I'm talking about a fire that the God of heaven will set burning in a man's soul that'll get him through the quitting spots I'm talking about a fire that God will light, that that will make you devoted to Him, that will make you do like the ancient martyrs did, who would walk gladly to the stake and say, I'll lay down my life for the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm talking about a fire that still burns when you're all by yourself. A fire that still burns when there's nobody else around. A fire that will burn, maybe, when you're sick in body and frail, yet God can light a fire, my friend, that even hell itself can't extinguish. It's obvious that's who was fighting Jeremiah. But aren't you glad the devil couldn't put out his fire Oh, he said, I'm done. In his old body, he was done. He was tired. He was he was he's he'd give up. He said, I quit, but there was something burning in his heart that wouldn't let him. Well, I'm praying God will do that in my heart and do it in yours. That God will fuel a fire that will burn, that that just will get you to the place where you can't. You can't. He said I uh I want to quit. I I'm not going to do this anymore. But he said I could not stay. I believe there are four things. They're just simple as can be But there are four things that were going on in Jeremiah's life and four things that God was using that kept that fire burning, even though he wanted to quit. Let me say number one, you see the presence of the word. Do you see that? It says first in verse 9, not only the presence, but you see the preeminence of the word. The word of God is what really was doing this work. He tells us here in verse number 9, he said, But his word was in mine heart. The word of God was burning in him. The word of God was fueling the fire. The word of God was stoking the fire in Jeremiah's heart. And what God was wanting to communicate and what God was communicating to Jeremiah was causing that fire to just burn in his heart. Oh dear Christian, fill your heart with God's word. If you heat your house, how many of you heat your house with wood? Anybody use wood still? Well, there's quite a few of you. I know what you've been doing the last little while. You've been storing up the wood. Because nobody wants to go out in the snow and shake off the snow and put you you put you finding somewhere to put it I remember when my dad first retired, he he became a squirrel with wood. He put wood up, and mom called and said, You're gonna have to talk to your daddy. He's got wood all over the porch. I can't look out the window anymore. He's got it stacked up there. He's just trying to get ahead. And this was in July. He just hadn't had nothing to do but carry wood, I guess. But you better, and I better store some wood up in my heart. Better get in the Word. Better get that word. Better memorize it, meditate on it, read it. I'm encouraging us and challenging us to read through the Word of God. Why? Because we're storing up the wood. We need to be under the preaching of God's word. Don't forsake the assembling of ourselves together. Don't lay out of the house of God. Get under the Word. Get open, you get up in the morning and open your Bible before you open your phone and get in the Word. Open your Bible when you get a free moment. And just get some work. You know what you're doing? You're fueling the fire. You're storing up the fire. You're stoking up the fire. You're feeding the fire. You need the word. Devotional books are wonderful. I use many of them. But they're no substitute for the word. Commentaries are helpful at times. How many of you notice the one question you've got, they don't answer You get to a verse and you get stomped and you're like, I wonder what so-and-so says, and you go and they don't say nothing. They skip that verse and move on, because they don't know either. And as helpful as they may be, they do not take the place of the word. Oh, I'm glad there is there's help right here in these words. Jesus said, My words are life. That's what he said. My words are life. This is a living book. This book's alive, and it'll put life inside of you. There's life in the Word of God. And so understand tonight that the fire that burns and that fire that we need burning is fueled by the Word of God. You remember the two disciples on the road to Emmaus? Here they're talking, they're walking, and Jesus joins them. They don't know it's him. But the Bible says, beginning at Moses, he expounded unto them All things concerning himself. You know what he did? He did a Bible study with them about Jesus all through the Old Testament. And when they get to the place they're going and they pray and Jesus opens their eyes and they see who he is, they said, Did not our heart burn within us? While he talked with us, by the way, well what was he talking? He was talking the word of God. He was preaching the word of God. Here the living word is preaching the written word, and it started a fire in their hearts. They said we were burning on the inside. We need more you know, I listen, I I don't want to get political here, but I've seen people get more fired up about the politics of this day than they do the precious, eternal, inerrant, infallible word of God. It's easy to get fired up about everything that's wrong and forget everything that's right. It's awful easy to get your heart all stirred up about something that's not worth two hoops or a row of pins. Get your heart stirred with something good. Fill it with the Word of God. This Bible will light a fire. That my friend, you can't quit. Because it's burning so bright. Hadn't it blessed you? A lot of seasoned old saints in here, and I say that with great respect Hasn't it blessed you over the years when you've been weary? And God give you just a verse? And He says, remember this? Boy, that ministers to your heart, puts a little fire back inside, strengthens you Well, I remember going in the early days of my ministry through a dark place, our church split, and and uh boy, it really weighed on me and had an effect. And I opened my Bible one morning. I could take you to the very spot if that little home is still standing. And I laid on my face and read Isaiah 40. And that that fire that was just about gone, man, I was done. I was through. I thought, Lord, you've deceived me. And that Isaiah 40 started building a fire. And boys, God started doing something in my heart. God started stirring something in me. You know what it was? It was the Word of God. There wasn't another person around. There was no encouragement. From the circumstances I was living through, there was nothing that would would give you any reason to be enthused but the book. And I learned that, oh, God can do something for me through this book. That there's there's fuel for the fire that needs to burn in our hearts in the Bible His word was in mine heart. Oh, I'm glad the Bible will keep you going when you want to quit. And it'll keep the fire burning bright like it ought to be. Let me say quickly, hurriedly, number two, notice his proclamation of faith. Verse number 11, he says, But the Lord is with me as a mighty terrible one. The Lord's with me. But Jeremiah don't quite look like it. Have you ever noticed that oftentimes we we we think uh uh a thing ought to be a certain way if if a certain thing is true You know if the Lord's with me, should I be having such a hard time? If the Lord's with me, should I be facing such a hard battle? If the Lord's with me, should I be Walking through this dark place Gideon there threshing wheat, the message from heaven was, The Lord is with thee. And Gideon's reply was, really? Then why are we in bondage? Why are we slaves? Why are we in fear? Why are we living like this if the Lord's with us? But you know what faith does? Faith looks above the clouds and sees the truth. Someone said that faith knows something is so, though it appears not to be so. Remember what the Lord told him back in the first chapter? We read it already, verse 19. He said, They will fight against thee, but I am with thee. You know what Jeremiah said in this circumstance? His faith comes to the fore. By the way, faith, real faith, will always rise to the top. Real faith. Real faith will always cut it's like cream coming to the top. It'll always come to the top. You may go through some storm and through some difficulty, but you don't want to rise to the surface. That faith will come up. And Jeremiah said, but the Lord's with me. These people are mocking me. These people won't listen. They're fighting against me. I'm deceived. I'm discouraged. Lord, I quit. But the Lord is with me. Don't you know that it's the Lord that's carrying you through? I mean, if it weren't for him, where would we be? I'll tell you what will keep that fire burning is understanding that God is with you, not because you feel him. I love what the choir is saying, but you know I got to thinking. I know God's real whether I feel him or not. I know God's real. I I don't have to feel to know God's real, but sometimes my feelings are excused, sometimes my feelings aren't right, but I'll tell you what, God's real, whether I feel Him or not. Faith knows that he said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee, and so that we may boldly say the Lord's my helper I don't have to feel that the Lord's near to know that he is near. I've got a Bible that tells me he's near, and faith says he's near. Because we trust what he says. If you want to keep a fire burning in your heart that'll sustain you through the quitting spots, trust God. Believe him. Believe him. Wasn't it Abraham? Yes, Romans 4 says that he staggered not in unbelief. He didn't even consider that his body was dead, or Sarah's was too. He didn't consider the circumstance. He just gave glory to God and he believed. He believed God. Well, Abraham, there's no way. He said, I know there's no way, but there's God. How many times in the Bible does God put people in a circumstance where there's no way, but there's God? And when there's no way, but there's God, there's a way, because God's the way. It it didn't seem like there was no way out of Egypt sitting in the red in front of the Red Sea and Pharaoh behind them, but there's God And God can partse and do things that men have never seen done before. Why? Because he's God. And faith sees that, and faith believes that And Jeremiah said, God, you're with me. He's going back to that former promise and he's proclaiming his faith. God, you said you'd be with me, and though it don't look like it, I'm going to believe it. And that kept the fire burning in his heart. By the way, what you believe don't make it so, but it sure does help you. Someone said believing is is they they said it this way, believing is is uh having faith is believing something is so until it becomes so, and that's not true. Because if God said it, it is so, until you realize it is so, and faith just says, I know it's so, whether I see it or not. Faith don't have to see what what what the outcome or the reality. It knows the reality is written. It is written, is the reality. Thank God for that. Thank God for that. In this dark age we look around and say, Oh my someone sent me a Pew Research um poll recently. And boy, America's becoming a godless outfit. It's talking about even in the church how little the church truly believes that These so-called evangelicals that don't believe the Bible is the Word of God, and they don't believe that Jesus was virgin-born, and they don't believe that there's a need for personal regeneration or salvation. And and I'm thinking, well, how do you call yourself an evangelical? How do you even fit I mean why not just call yourself what you are, uh an atheist, a God denier, a person that don't believe, identify in reality? And and and we're growing uh in in great numbers of those sorts of people in this country. And and church attendance, they talked about church attendance in the last decade has plummeted. That there's just a small wee portion of people that even darken the house of God. And we look around us, we say, what's going on? Things are coming apart. Oh no, God's putting her right together. And if you know the Bible, you know what's happening. You're not children of the dark or the night. You're children of the day. You understand that God's running this thing right on time. And what's happening is he's preparing his bride to get ready to go home. My friend, you and I by faith believe that this is so. And I'll tell you something else. We believe the Bible still works. We believe that salvation is still by grace through faith. We believe that folks can still get in, that the gospel still works, that preaching The Word of God still something we ought to do, that Jesus is mighty to save, and that it's worth all the labor of a lifetime to reach just one more soul. We believe that because we believe this book. Don't be too much of a weather watcher. You know, isn't it something? I I just was thinking of this today. Everybody's worked up over a little bit of snow. A brother sent me a picture and the the Walmart grocery section was empty. Now, I'm going to tell you, if your house is like mine, there's enough food to scrounge up to live for another month or two. And and the way, and I'll just speak for me, the way some of us are, we could live on what we got stored up inside for a good while. We ain't gonna die, I'll tell you that But but but you know what? We we're weather watchers. We're listening to all the reports. We name our snowstorms now I thought if my granddaddy heard that, he thought we were fools. Bunch of crazy people. It's gonna snow. What do you do when it snows? Well you clean it up and go on and live your life You don't sit and worry about it, you know, the end of the world's come because we got four inches of snow coming. You understand what I'm trying to say But spiritually we sit around and do the same thing. And we look at all the tragedy and we look at all the the possibilities. We look at all the reports of this world. We say, oh it's bad, it's getting dark, it's getting darker, it's getting hard, it's getting difficult, men are getting mean. Look, the Bible already said evil men will wax worse and worse. The Bible already told us this was going to happen. Don't get too worked up about what's happening. Just get to the work God's left you here to do. Be a light in the darkness. Point men to Jesus. Tell people that he saves, and live for the Lord until you see his blessed face. We see his proclamation of faith. Quickly, I've got to hurry. Let me say this. We see his plain prayer. His plain prayer. You know, verse 12 is a prayer. He says this, but O Lord of hosts, that tries the righteous and seesth the range of the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them. Can I just say it like it is? You know what he said? Lord, get 'em. Just deal with 'em. Lord, you you turn your vengeance on him. God said he was going to. God said he's going to. I'm just saying that that he would he just got plain about the matter. Lord, Lord, they they're wanting to kill me. They're wanting to eliminate me. Lord, you just deal with them. Lord, you deal with them. By the way, the best thing you can do in difficulties of life is say, Lord, you deal with it. Put it in the hand of the Lord. Look what he said here in that verse. He says, For unto thee have I opened my cause. Do you know that is a legal term? He said, I brought my case to the judge. I've just laid it out. I've opened it up to you. I just laid it out here. Now, Lord, you deal with it. Lord, you take care of this. This is too much for me. I can't change it. I can't fix it. I can't help. But Lord, here it is. It's in your court. It's in your hands. I'm putting it before you. Oh, someone said, communicating with heaven. Will light a heavenly fire in your heart. Jeremiah in chapter 33. Have you ever we always quote verse 3, but verse 2 says, the word of the Lord came the second time while Jeremiah was yet shut up in prison. What did he say in verse 3? Call unto me, and I'll answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Jeremiah, you just keep praying. You know why Jeremiah had a fire that got him through the quitting spots? Because he was a praying man. He was calling on the Lord. And and I used to hear a fellow say, P y you 've heard this statement, push your way through it. Just push your way through it. You know, push through the pain, push through the difficult whatever, just push your way. Can I say this? Pray your way. Just pray your way through it. Whatever the spot that you get in that makes you want to quit, just pray. Just pray your way through it. Call on the Lord. Then notice, last of all, his purposeful praise. Verse 13 says, Sing unto the Lord. Praise ye the Lord, for he hath delivered the soul of the poor from the hand of evildoers. He just said, I'm on praise the Lord. Used to hear an old preacher say, praise the Lord anyhow. He said, praise him on credit if you've got to. God won't be your debtor. He'll make good the account for long. When you read in the in the book of Acts, chapter 16, Paul and Silas at midnight, they prayed and what Sang praises unto God. They prayed and they sang praises unto God. I like one old mountain preacher's interpretation. He said, God enjoyed that singing so good he got to patting his foot and caused an earthquake on the earth. Well, I don't know the ri truth behind that, but here's what I do know. It pleased God that they were praising him. It pleased God that they praised him even though they were in a midnight hour It pleases God when we praise him no matter what. When we just determine I'm going to praise God and listen, you want to keep a fire going in your heart, praise him. You know what will put your fire out? Start complaining The children of Israel murmured, and the more they murmured, the more discouraged they got, and the more discouraged they got, the more they wanted to go back to Egypt. And it all started because they were complaining. Now, friend, there's a reason God tells us to do what he tells us to do. Praise him. Praise him on purpose. Sometimes God delivers through praise. Jehoshaphat in 2 Chronicles 20 has three nations come against him. And God said, here's what I want you to do, I want you to send the choir first. I want you to get the choir together. I want them to praise, you tell them to praise me because I'm merciful and praise me in my holiness. And he said, I want you to send them first. And the Bible says, when they went out, that one nation turned against another. And when that confusion settled down, the rest of them killed everybody else, and he said, by the time the children of Israel got there, you go back and read the account, they were all dead bodies. There wasn't one person left alive. They were three days in gathering spoil. And never pulled a sword. Never fought a fight. You know what they did? They sent the choir in. They sent the choir in. They said, I want you to sing praises the Lord. I believe there'd be a whole lot more defeated enemies if we'd praise God a little bit more. And just get up in the morning and praise Him. You might be, uh you know, it might be a dark old thing at lying in front of you, but you can just get up and say, now Lord, I'm going to praise you You say, preacher, I don't have anything to praise God for. Praise God for who he is. Because who he is is always the same. Who he is never does change. He's the Lord, he changes not. So just go to praising him for who he is and watch what the Lord will do. If nothing else, he'll put a fire burning in your heart that you'll be like Jeremiah who says, Lord, I quit. But he said I couldn't I just couldn't quit. That fire burning just kept me going. Now I pray that God will help us. To get some fires going in our hearts that won't be put out. Some fires that'll get us to the place that'll take us through our quitting spots. Some fires that will carry us through when we're awful discouraged. Some fires that'll keep that'll burn so that when we're disappointed and we're disheartened and maybe even defeated. We'll just keep going because the fire's burning. And that fire of devotion and love for the Lord Jesus will make you say things like Job did. Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. He had a fire burning. Comes through the book. Get full of the Bible You don't have near enough of the Bible in you, and I don't either. We need more. Get full of the Bible. Believe God. Believe God. Believe Him. You'll never trust Him too much. No way. You'll never trust Him too much. Talk often, pray, and call on the Lord. And then, my dear friend, let's praise the Lord. Let's make it a habit of life to be a people of praise. Praising continually. Let everything that hath breath Praise the Lord. May the Lord help us. Your fire needs to be stoked a little. Let's have our pianists to come and begin playing, and we'll take a time of prayer.