Philippians chapter number one, and I'm going to look at verse number twenty-one once again this morning. Philippians chapter one and verse number twenty-one And when you have found your place, I'll invite you to stand with me, please, as we honor the reading of God's Word. Philippians chapter 1 and verse number 21 says, For to me to live is Christ. And to die is gain. Let's read it again. For to me to live is Christ. And to die is gained. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the privilege to be able to be in your house once again. We thank you, Lord, for your loving kindness, your tender mercy. We thank you for your precious word. We know that what we've just read is absolutely true. We thank you that it is the word of God that lives and abides forever. Now, Father, would you for these few moments separate us from the cares and distractions of life, fix our eyes upon you afresh, and speak to us from heaven? And Father, we'll be careful to give you all the glory, for Lord, we're looking to you and thanking you ahead of time for what you and your merciful kindness are going to do for us. We thank you, Lord, for your love. Thank you for Jesus most of all. Lord, please hide me behind the cross. Help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. And may your will be done in Jesus' name. Amen. You can be seated. Well, we looked at this verse just last Sunday morning. And there's so much in the text. I was telling a couple of pastors yesterday. That this is a bottomless book. Uh you will never exhaust all the truth that's found on his pages You preach it a hundred years and there'll be a hundred more years you could preach it. You could preach it a thousand years and there'll be a thousand more years. That's the nature of God's precious word. But what we're doing in these days is we're focusing on seven little words. Seven little words. I I love how the Bible says a lot by saying a little. It doesn't take a whole paragraph to say a great deal of things, and God does that in this in this passage. The Apostle Paul said seven words here. We're looking at those first seven. For to me to live is Christ. For to me to live is Christ. I believe that he sums up in these words what it means to live You know, you hear people talking about finding the purpose of life. What's the purpose of life? Why am I here? What's it all about? And you know, there's people that will go to great lengths to try to figure that out. They'll set on a mountain, I read somewhere of a group of individuals that seek the meaning of life through silence. That'd kill some of you. You'd never find it. Amen. But through the meaning, I'm not saying names, I'm just saying that there's some that that'd be hard for I believe there was a man who went 17 years, never spoke a word. Tried to find the meaning of life. It don't take 17 years to find the meaning of life. It doesn't take a an excluded wilderness scene to set and ponder the meaning of life. It doesn't take some uh beautiful landscape to stare upon. It the Word of God in seven short words tells you what living is all about. Here's the purpose of life. For to me to live is Christ. We looked at it last week in the way of conversion because that's where true life begins. Jesus said in John 17, 3, and this is life eternal. that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. That's eternal life. That's what life is all about. You can live a lifetime and not really live. You can live a lifetime and not really live. But the reality is when you come to know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Then you begin to live. That's where life starts. We looked at it at the commencement in Acts chapter 9 for the Apostle Paul on the road to Damascus. It was there that God arrested him, saved him, and transformed his life. Then we not only looked at the commencement, we looked at the comparison. Because he made a comparison. He was looking at what he was and then looking at what he had and he was saying, you know, I was a Judaizer and I had all of these things, but he said, now that I'm a Christian All of that Judaism that I left behind, I didn't really leave anything behind. I didn't lose anything. By the way, you never lose when you take the Lord Jesus to be your Savior. The devil's a liar. And what he'll tell you is that if you live for the Lord, you're wasting your time. You're wasting your life. But I've got news for you. There's no waste when you live for the Lord. The Lord Jesus is life. I mean He's all that life's about. He's all that life's about. And then we talked about the change because life Brings change. All of life brings change. I mean, new life. We we are coming into the fall season and before long things are kind of winding down a little bit But you know it won't be long. And we'll blink a time or two and it'll be spring. And then you know what spring brings with it? New life. And that's exactly what Christ does when he saves the soul. He brings new life. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. You'll never convince me from the Scriptures or out of the Scriptures that salvation does not equal change. There's always going to be, listen, somebody as big as God moves into your life, it's going to make a difference. He's going to make a difference. He does, and he makes the change. But today I want to look at it from a whole different angle. Someone said the scriptures are like jewels. If they they're they're different in each light that you turn them in. And so we're going to turn this particular jewel of text and we're going to look at it not from the lens of conversion. But we're going to look at it from the lens of a confession. A confession. Because that's what he's doing here. He's confessing. You say, what is a confession? Sometimes we think about it in the realm of sin, but really, confession is simply an acknowledgement of truth. Paul's making a confession here. For to me to live is Christ. I like what Charles Spurgeon said. He said, you can condense my entire theology into four words. Jesus died for me. That's a confession. He's confessing the reality that Christ died for his sin. Well, let's look at this confession. What's he confessing? What's he confessing to? What's he acknowledging the truth of? When he said, For to me to live is Christ. Number one, he's making a confession of dependence. You know what he's saying? If I live at all, it must be Christ. For to me to live is Christ. He's confessing his dependence upon the Lord. You know, when Paul wrote to the Corinthian believers, he reminded them that he wasn't much in appearance. Or eloquence, or even really intelligence. But he said, My preaching is not in the enticing words of man's wisdom, but in the demonstration and power of the Holy Spirit. He's saying that what I am, I am by the grace of God, because I'm depending on the Lord. Now we need another denomination like we need another hole in our head. But I've often been tempted to say, why don't we just be dependent Baptists instead of independent Baptists? We've gotten so independent, we're independent of the Lord. We won't even depend on the Lord. I mean, let alone get along with each other. We get so ornary we can't we won't even depend on him, and I've got news for you. You and I need the Lord. The Bible tells us very clearly, in fact, Jesus summed this dependence up in seven little words in John 15, 5. In John 15, 5, the Bible says this, for without me ye can do nothing. That's what Jesus said. He said, Without me you can do nothing. And I want you to think about this thing of dependence. He's saying, he's giving us some instruction, and maybe you can turn over there with me to John 15. And think about the instructions that he gives us there in verse 4, where he says this very clearly, abide in me. Abide in me. I believe it was Hudson Taylor who said that the fruit tree abides in the soil. Abides in the sun, and from that abiding produces fruit. It doesn't strive or struggle or strain It just draws the resources provided to produce life without. I've never walked by a tree and heard it groaning to make fruit. I've never heard an apple tree just shaking its little limbs saying, oh make an apple, oh make an apple. You don't see them wringing their leaves and branches and and saying, I gotta produce something, I gotta make something And you know, Jesus told us that we're like the vine, and we are, or rather the branch that's attached to the vine, and we are to abide in him. Why? Because it's through him that we bear fruit. Again, without him we can do nothing. The instruction is that we abide. You say, how do I abide in Christ That that word, man, we could spend the rest of the morning, but I want you to see it clearly as this. It's to live in the atmosphere of, live in the attachment to live and draw from what's provided in the Lord Jesus. I've got news for you. You don't have to be a Christian on your own. A lot of Christians are trying to be Christians when they just need to let Christ do his work. It's not a matter of what you do. You know where self-righteousness comes from? It comes from attempting to do what only God can produce in your life. But when I abide in the word and I abide in prayer, And I abide in the person of Christ, here's what I find. I find that He does in me and through me what I cannot do without Him. So what Paul's saying here is that for me to live is Christ, that all of my life depends upon the Lord. Isn't it funny we depend solely upon the Lord for salvation, but from there on we think we gotta do it? You didn't save yourself. If you did, you need to get born again. Because the Lord Jesus is the only Savior. But then after we get saved, we go on, we say, well, you know, I can do a pretty good job. I'll be a good Christian. And you know what we do? We get what we can produce. And that's as good as it gets. But where's the uniqueness of the work of God in a person's heart? Where's the life-changing evidence that Jesus is there making a change? Where is the proof that salvation is not just words, but power? When God brought the children of Israel out of Egypt, which is a picture of salvation, he brought them out of Egypt with power. He parted a sea. He put down an empire. He did a great thing. I mean his mighty arm was bare for his children, and he delivered them in power, by blood and by power. And listen, when you get saved, there's blood and power. The blood of Christ is applied, and the power of God is at work, and he begins to make a marvelous difference in our lives. And we'll continue to do so as we depend upon the Lord. Was it said of Saul he became a different man when the Spirit of God came on him? Different man. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. You know, I think sometimes, and I'm for discipling and I'm for training and teaching. But you can't educate where life has not previously made an appearance. In other words, you can't transform what's not been regenerated by the power of God. Now look, you could take about anything. I I'm always amazed of what you can train an animal to do. It amazes me. Um I remember, and maybe my little sister remembers, my uh I shouldn't say little sister, my younger sister. And I'm glad that her and her family is here today. And we would go to Cherokee, North Carolina, and they would They would have these chickens that i when you put in money feed would fall down and they'd play the piano. You remember that? That chicken would come out and he 'cause he knew he'd get food for it. And they trained him to play a piano I believe with all my heart you can train Christians to do what most Christians do. Van Sabner said, take the Holy Ghost out of the average church, and 95% of what went on would go on because we've learned to live without Him. And I've got news for you. The Bible's still true. Without me, ye can do nothing. I need the Lord. And Paul made a great confession here. When he said, for to me to live is Christ. He said, I'm depending entirely upon the Lord. We've got the instructions to abide in Christ. We've got the illustration here in John 15 of the vine and the branches. He said, I am the vine, you're the branches. The illustration is very simple. You see something alive. You see a plant or something of that nature. Man, of all the times, there's not a plant in this building. Normally we're a jungle in here. But maybe down there there's something. But anyway, you know the reality if that vine, if that branch rather is disconnected from that vine, it's not going to live long. If these flowers were not um whatever they are, we know they're not real. But if if you were to take a real flower and break it off and lay it on this communion table, it's not going to stay pretty very long. It's going to die. Why? Because it's been severed from its life source. It's got to have that connection or it won't live. Christian, can I say to you, you cannot live without Jesus Christ. Now you can live without a lot of things. You can live without health. You can live without family. You can live without money. But you can't live without Jesus You've got to have him. He said he's the bread of life. He's the water of life. And life depends on those basic things. And I'm telling you, your life and my life depends upon the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, you can't be a Christian without Christ. No more than you can be a person without your body. We've got to have Him. We've got to have Him. It's illustrated in the vine and the branch. Jesus said, He that abideth in me and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. So long as the branch stays attached to the vine. By the way, I I don't know that it's so much as the connection as it is the union, that that from the root to the to the base, to the branch, to the flower, to the fruit that it all depends upon that main life that's flowing through that particular thing. And so it is with us as Christians. Look, uh it it's all about Jesus Listen, if you've made any progress in your Christian life, give God the glory. It's Jesus in you. Christ in you, the Bible says, the hope of glory. That's what it is. We glory in a lot of things. Well, I've been saved a hundred years. Well, Lord bless you, but you would not be anything were it not for Jesus Christ You can be saved ten minutes and be proud of it that you somehow or another had something to do with it, but the reality is it's all about him. It's his doing. It's his work. I'm not going to hell, not because I prayed a prayer, not because I did something. I I'm going to heaven because of the Lord Jesus. He saved me. To him be the glory And listen, if you've got any hink any inkling inside of you to live for Christ and any desire to please Christ and any likeness to the Lord Jesus Christ It's the doings of God. It's his marvelous work. To him be the glory and the honor. And realize that like the vine and the branch must be together, so the Christian and the Lord Jesus must be one. Yes. Now it's true, it's true positionally. Jesus prayed in John seventeen that we would be one. Just as he and the Father are one. But is it true practically? Dr. Hitchens talked this morning about being translated out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of light. You've been dug up out of the devil's world and been planted in God's. You're no longer growing in the filthy soil of Satan's kingdom. You've been translated. You've been brought and transplanted into a new kingdom where the the purity of God r resides and rules and reigns. You've been made new creatures in the Lord Jesus Christ. And your whole life depends on Him. If you can live your Christianity without Him, it's not Christianity. It's a performance. It's a show. It's just plastic. It's Hollywood stuff. It's what you can do. But my dear friend, there's something a whole lot better. Lay down the cheap counterfeit, take up the true Christ, and let the Lord Jesus live his life in you This country's eat up with the Christianity that's not Christ-centered, nor is it full of the Lord Jesus. It's full of man and full of uh philosophy and full of humanism, but oh where is Christ in it all? You put Christ back into your theology and you'll see the difference Jesus Christ will make No wonder Charles Spurgeon said my theology can be condensed into those four words. Jesus died for me. He would talk about how they would look over a congregation of people, the pauper and the banker, would worship God together. He said there would be people who from who come from broken backgrounds and dark and difficult places, but yet God in his mercy would save them. I'm telling you, friend, it's what Christ does in us that is really important today. We're talking about dependence here. This confession, it's a confession of dependence. And the illusion that I've got to warn you about is the illusion that I can do some things without the Lord. Jesus didn't say that, did he? The Bible says you can do nothing. Without me. Nothing without me. I absolutely need the Lord. I need him for my salvation. I need him for my sanctification. I need him for my salvation. I'm not keeping myself saved, neither are you. Some of God's little people wring their hands and worry and fret and hope they're hanging on tight enough and doing all the right things when there's a God in heaven who's keeping us by his power. who saved us by his grace, who's etched your name in the book of life, and the devil don't have an eraser who can remove it. Listen, you've got to know something that God does an eternal work in the lives of his children. We rest in that. Don't think for a minute you can do anything without him. You can do nothing. You can do nothing. I can do nothing without the Lord. You say, oh, I'm I'm I'm naturally gifted to uh talk to people. Well, then you're just naturally gifted to talk to people. But if you want a witness, you need the power of God. You need to be a power. I mean, you can talk to somebody and not be a witness. You can talk about everything under the sun and not point them to Jesus. See, without me, he said, you can do nothing. You may be resolute in your personality. I mean, there's some people so stubborn. Why you you couldn't turn them around for nothing. And they make their mind up to do something, and they're going to do it so far as they can. But I've got news for you. Somewhere down the road of life, determination has a dead end. Because there's somewhere you say, I just can't go on. But I'm glad, my friend, that when you lean on the Lord There's no end to what he can do in your life. You know, the Apostle Paul was not a very strong man, we're told, physically. We s we're told he was kind of different looking. He perhaps had some sort of eye disease. He was a short little fella. I've seen various uh depictions of what they thought Paul looked like from maybe even good sources because I mean he was not a man in a corner somewhere. He was well known. He was he was a thorn in the devil's side the whole time he lived for Christ. And you know, as you look at him and think about him, it wasn't his appearance And he himself even said his speech was contemptible. He wasn't a good speaker. You know, we read about Jonathan Edwards and the Great sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God, and they tell me that he read his sermons monotone with the manuscript in front of his face and read them. Now look, I don't know if you've ever had a teacher like that, but you're like, oh I had a history teacher like that and I thought, you know, I I wasn't the brightest light bulb in the box to start with And I I didn't need that to to further diminish my desire to learn anything. And uh it was horrible going there and I think, oh my goodness. I got more trouble in that class than any other simply because I was bored out of my mind I just needed something to do. And he would just monotone, never raise his voice, just like that. I mean that's sleeping potion right there And it would appear that that was the Apostle Paul. He didn't have a spirit of a charismatic personality or anything like that. But you tell me another man who made a greater difference than this one. I'll tell you why. It wasn't in the person, it was in the power of God. He depended on the Lord, and the Lord did great things. And I've got news for you, it's still true today. If you'll depend on him, he'll do in you, through you, by you, what you'll never do on your own, but what God in his infinite mercy can accomplish through those who will yield their lives to Christ. Quickly, let me say number two, this is not only a confession of dependence, but it is a confession of defense For to me to live is Christ. Falls surrounded by danger and he's facing imminent death. And here's what he recognizes. I'm in the Lord's hands. There's three things that he could see very clearly. Number one, he had a shepherd. Number two, he had a sustainer, and number three, he had security. You know why? He because for me to live is Christ. This was a confession of defense. Now, Nero would say, Paul, you're in trouble. You're in my pa you're in my hands. If you know anything historically about Nero, he was insane. He was a madman. Not only was he immoral, but he was insane. And he was infatuated with killing Christians. And Paul was the chief in his day, so he was after him hot and heavy. You've got to remember something here. The threatenings of that great man were not idle threats. He regularly murdered Christians. He lit his gardens up at night with the bodies of oil-soaked Christians and burnt them. He especially had an evil enjoyment in burning young Christians. And a lot of those believers in that day were very young, youthful Christians. And yet Paul sets in his clutches, so to speak. He's in his hands. He I I I wonder if when he talks about being delivered out of the jaws of the lion, I wonder if he wasn't talking about old Nero, maybe He's got me in his mouth. You ever see a rotten old cat catch something? And uh that was a purposefully chosen adjective, so And you know, they'll catch a there may be a little rabbit or a little bird and they'll play with it and torture it and Now where was I going? I get sidetracked and aggravated. Anyway, and and you think about that little animal, whatever it is, is at the mercy. At the mercy of that thing. It has no defense. It can't get itself away. It's often wounded or hurt. And I imagine Nero thought he was one of those people who w was in charge and and he was just doing what he willed with those Christians. But here sets this little this little preacher in his prison and he says, For to me to live is Christ. Nero, I've got defense you don't know anything about. He said, I've got a shepherd. The Lord is my shepherd. And by the way, verse 1 starts with I shall not want. You get down to verse 6, and he says, I will fear no evil. You know why? Because you got a shepherd. You can rest assured, dear believer, if you're saved by the grace of God, your defense is not on your shoulders. I don't know that I'm not preaching to Christians someday that may face some of the things these deer people did. I don't know that I'm not preaching to believers that are going to have to face death for Christ. I don't know that that may just be The case as we look down the long road of time. But here's what I do know, you'll not be at the mercy of a godless government You'll not be at the hands of an angry mob. You have a defense in heaven who's still on the throne, and you can say, I got a shepherd who's looking after me. Not only do I have a shepherd, I've got a sustainer. A sustainer. Psalm 3:5 is one of my favorite verses. David said this: I laid me down and slept. I awaked, for the Lord sustained me. The Lord kept me alive. It was the Lord that looked after me. And listen, you've got to know something. It is the Lord. Now, I think you ought to take care of yourself and not and Looking at me, you probably don't believe I believe that. But I do believe you ought to try to do your best, take care of yourself, take your vitamins, eat right, exercise, do all those horrible things the doctor tells you is good for you. But at the end of the day, not one of those things keeps you alive. They don't keep you alive. You're sustained not by your healthy lifestyle. You're sustained by the Lord. David was facing danger. He's lying in a cave. Saul's just steps away from him to take his life. And David could lay down, go to sleep, wake up, and know this. It is not my army, it's not my my prowess, it's not my ability that's keeping me alive, it's the Lord in heaven. And you need to know that, that in this dangerous hour that we're living in It is the Lord who sustains his own. He sustains us. My what a defense. No wonder the old prophet had to pray. Open that boy's eyes. I'm paraphrasing also. Open his eyes that he might see, and around those hills was the army of God, all encircled around him. And listen, God's army has not went a wall. He's still in business. And my friend, you and I can say my defense is in the Lord. For to me to live is Christ. And then the security. I love what Hebrews 13, 6. It talks about in verse number 5. We can, he said, I'll never leave thee nor forsake thee. And then verse 6 says, so that we may boldly say, The Lord's my helper, and I shall not fear, I will not fear what man shall do unto me. I'm not afraid of man, because I've got God Romans 8 says, If God be for us, who can be against us? Dear Christian, your defense is in the Lord. So some of you just need to stop worrying about what them little yappers are saying about you and doing and all that And let the Lord defend you. He'll do a whole lot better job than you will. John Rice said if I stopped and threw rocks at every dog that barked at me, that's all I'd get done. And so you need to realize that our defense is in the Lord. Our defense is in the Lord. What a defense. No wonder he could sit there. I don't believe Paul needed tongues to settle his stomach. I don't think he needed volume to calm his nerves. I think he understood there's a God in heaven who's watching over me, and Nero don't have the last word. If he lifts my head, he lifts my head. If he leaves my head, he leaves my head. But it's not up to him. He don't have my head in his hands. My head, my body, my person, my soul is in the hands of the Lord. You need to know that in this wicked hour we're living in We're living in a dangerous hour. If you're gonna live for God, it's not gonna get easier. I do believe it's gonna get harder. I believe there's gonna be battles we're gonna fight, and there's gonna be difficulties we're gonna have to be wise about some things and watch. But here's the reality, at the end of the day, it's not all on us. It's not all on us. It's in the hand of the Lord. Our God is able. Our God is able. Our defense is of the Lord. Now let me quickly say number three. Not only do we see our dependence, this confession of dependence And I see a confession of defense, but thirdly, I see a confession of defiance. Here is a confession of defiance. Though threatened, the righteous are as bold as a lion. I believe that because he writes in verse 28 of Philippians 1. And in nothing terrified by your adversaries. Nothing. In nothing terrified by your adversaries. Now, Paul, Paul's not just blowing uh smoke here. He he knows what it is to have adversaries. Do you remember how many times the Jews tried to kill him? They wanted him dead from the start. How's that? Your own countrymen? Lying in wait? Forty men? Was it 40, I believe, that were waiting to kill him? Took a vow? Said we'll kill Paul before the rise of the sun and and and then it just went from there. I mean everywhere he went he had Judaizers that followed him and stirred up trouble and said, We're gonna kill you, we're gonna kill you, we're gonna try to kill you In fact, they about got the job done once when they stoned him, had him stoned, drug him out of the city, and left him for dead. But remember this, if God's not through with you, there's not a rock that can take your life. Nor is there anything else that can take your life because God's the one keeping it. I imagine that crowd must have felt awful weird when he got up and walked back to town and started preaching again. He thought, boy, I'll tell you we messed up now. Paul's defiant. It's as if he says, Nero, for to me to live is Christ. I'm not terrified of your threats. I'm not shaking in my uh my my boots, I guess I should say my sandals or whatever he wore. I'm not terrified. You don't have me afraid. I'm not afraid. I'm not terrified because I do have adversaries. I know the the main adversary is the devil. The Bible says he's a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. His defiance was not bold ignorance, but it was Bible-based. You know why he was defiant? He was defiant because of the person in his life. The person of Christ. For to me to live is Christ. Here's what he understood: that Jesus Christ. Is on the throne, not Nero. Not presidents, not prime ministers, not groups or parties of men, but the Lord is on the throne. He could be defiant, not in an ignorant way, but in a biblical way, because he knew greater is he that is in me than he that's in this world. We see his defiance was because of a person, but not only that, but because of a plan. He knew that God had a plan. He talked about it in Philippians 1. He said, I'm in a strait, I'm in a strait betwixt two. To depart and be with Christ, which is far better. But to remain with you, which is more needful. It was like he was saying, I'm in I'm between a rock and a hard place. I don't know what to do. Do I leave? Do I stay? Do I go be with the Lord or do I stay here and serve the Lord? But then he said this, I know I'll stay. Now, how did Paul know he wasn't going to die at this point? Obviously, God showed him some of his plan. Now remember this: God has a plan. Your life's like a book and God's holding the pen and He's writing the story. And he's got a plan. I'll be honest with you, I don't always understand his plan. I can't always wrap my head around this plan. Sometimes his plan don't make a lick of sense to me. I look at it and say, now Lord, that that just don't seem right. And and how many of you would would honestly admit this morning That if you were making the plan, it wouldn't be the plan perhaps that you've got laid out in front of you. But you know what? His way's best. His plan 's always best. And you'll live to see it either on this side or the other. You'll realize that he knew what was best. His way is best. It's best to let him have his way with thee. Paul could be defiant in this situation because he understood God had a plan. Nero wasn't the ultimate authority. God was and God still is. God 's got a plan. Years ago, when I first started pastoring, I had a man tell me, he said, if I leave your church, that church will fold up. And I thought, well, I don't know. It may or may not, who knows? But do you know what? He thought he was the ultimate authority. I like how old Dr. Dixon used to put it. He said, if you think you're all that, fill a five-gallon bucket of water and put your fist down in it. Pull your fist out and see how big a difference it makes when it's gone. You'll be surprised. I mean, sometimes we think more highly of ourselves than we ought The reality is, God can do without me. I can't do without him. But he sure enough can do without me. And he can do it without you, but he's got a plan that includes you. He's got a plan. And isn't that a wonder of mercy? That God would include the likes of you and me in his plan? I I imagine, listen, if you could just imagine God's people is a great big toolbox, none of us look very useful. I imagine when you go to that toolbox and open it up, you think, where did these dollar store tools come from? And you know what you can do with dollar store tools, right? You can throw them out because they ain't gonna do much. But I am glad that there's a God in heaven who can take dollar tool store tools and work wonders with them because he's the Lord. He's got a plan. And your life, you your life may not make a lot of sense to you, but you trust in the one who's orchestrating that. And there'll come a day you'll say Now I know. Now I see. He had a plan. I believe Paul was defiant because of the person, because of the plan, and because of the power. He understood, he understood, in verse 28, in nothing terrified by your adversaries, which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation and that of God. Salvation, I believe, in the sense of deliverance. The power that look he opened the prison for Peter. He shut the mouths of lions for Daniel. He calmed the storms for his disciples. He saved Paul on a little piece of board as they made their way to land. God 's not out of ways of delivering his people. His power is the same today as it was then. Oftentimes we read this book like it is a history book. No, no, no. It's a living book. Because everything God did, he can still do because he's still God. His power is still the same. Now let me ask you, what's your confession? What's your confession in this place this morning? For to me to live is what? Well, I pray that's so, but answer this quietly in your heart. For to me to live is, or i is is your life Christ Is Christ your all-in-all? Is he the one? Are you saying, if I say for me to live as Christ, I'm saying, Lord, I'm depending upon you. I'm dependent upon you. I'm not counting on myself. He said, we put no confidence in the flesh. But he said, I'm depending on the Lord. Are you realizing that your defense is of the Lord, that He's the one who's protecting you, and is your defiance because of the Lord? There's a truth in the scriptures. If I can put these two words together, godly rebellion. Uh a a defiance that says, wait a minute. It's this this isn't God's way. And God's still God. And I bow my knee not not to the to the king. I bow my knee to Christ. But what's your confession? If you had to sum your life up in seven little words, what would you say? Some men say for me to live is money. Their money does their work. But there'll come a place where money won't work. Money won't work. Money won't keep you alive. It might get you a doctor, but it won't keep you alive. What would a man give? I mean, you could have the whole possessions of the world and still lose your soul Beloved, listen, there are things that we put so much importance upon that does not make a difference at all. What it is, what is it for you to live? For me to live is you fill in the blank. Dear friend, if you're here and you're not saved, you're among people who love you and want to see you be saved. Our desire, many of the desire here today to see you know Jesus as your personal Savior. Christ went to a cross and paid your sin debt in full. was buried in a borrowed tomb, rose again the third day, and he gives eternal life to whosoever will call on the name of the Lord. Friend, it's a gift. You can't earn it, work for it, deserve it. You simply cry out and God grants it because he's merciful like that. And you can be saved today before you leave this place or this broadcast ends. If you are saved today, let me ask you who you live in for, what you live in for. Is it Christ? Is this your confession? Oh, may God help us to yield our stubborn hearts and say, Lord, my life is thine. Have thine own way. Have thine own way. Lord, take over, because I want to live for Jesus Christ. You better get busy. Not in the sense of doing, but in the sense of yielding yourself to Christ. Because time's running out. Oh, preacher, I've heard that my whole life. I have too. 50 nearly 52 years I've heard Jesus is coming, Jesus is coming, Jesus is coming. Here's what I know on this end of 52. He's coming for me if he ain't coming for nobody else. Time's running out. In your times right now, stop playing games, stop fooling around. Stop living for this world, stop being children in the faith Stop being weak. Stop being uh uh cantankerous and stop being orner and stop being all these things that keep us from being what Christ would have us to be. Yield your life to God, let him have his way and live every day for the Lord Jesus till he comes. You'll never regret that. You'll never regret that. Let's stand together. Brother Dow, come quickly with our hymn