Amen. Would you open your Bibles this morning, please, to Romans chapter 1 Book of Romans, chapter number one, while you're finding your there. Let me remind you that we've studied together two titles of the gospel already. The Book of Romans is probably the most clear explanation of the Gospel in all of the New Testament. He deals with just about every aspect The reason for, the need of, the ability, the power, the people involved. I mean just about everything you can think about is addressed in the book of Romans As we started the study, we were looking at, just very simply, the gospel in Romans. And we started out in verse number one looking at the gospel of God. That was the first title. The Gospel of God is a very broad title that reaches all the way back into the Old Testament. It involves the prophecy that's given concerning the Lord Jesus. The Gospel of God is an encompassing title of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. The second title that we studied was found in verse number nine. And in that verse we read about the gospel of his son. The gospel of his son. Here is a a very specific title. We're no longer using broad terms. We're getting very detailed here. Very specific. Because this title emphasizes a person. By the way, the gospel is not a plan, the gospel is not even a prayer But the gospel is a person. The person of the Lord Jesus Christ. This morning I want you to look at two verses, verse 16 and 17, and I want you to see the third title. Romans chapter 1, verse number 16. Would you stand with me for a moment, please? We'll honor the reading of God's Word. Romans chapter 1 and verse 16 For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation, to everyone that believeth to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. Father, please take your word, work in our hearts, all for your glory and our good. Lord, for these few minutes we have together, separate us from all the cares and things of life that would distract us from hearing from heaven. And give us, Lord, ears to hear what the Spirit saith. O Father, have your way in this assembly of peoples. Help me, Lord, to preach the word and rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. And Lord in mercy hide me behind the cross and be glorified in this place and may all that we say or do bring honor and glory to your name We ask these things in Jesus' strong name, Lord, we need thee, and we're grateful, Lord, that you're an ever-present help in time of need We love you and praise you and thank you. Help us to love you more. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. God's people said, Amen. You can be seated I hope you notice that third title. It's found in verse number 16. It is the title, The Gospel of Christ. This is a positional title that declares the very power of God. The word Christ means anointed one. It's the New Testament equivalent of the Old Testament word Messiah. The word Christ is used 569 times in the New Testament. 569 times the Lord Jesus is identified as that anointed one or the anointed one. In Acts chapter number 10, verse number 38, the Bible says how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth. With the Holy Ghost and with power, who went about doing good and healing all that were oppressed of the devil, for God was with him The name Christ tells me that he is God's promised one, God's powerful one. And so therefore the gospel of Christ is a title That makes me understand that the gospel is not a message in word alone, but it is a message with great power, the power of God. The gospel is not just some fanciful thoughts about something that we cannot touch or understand. The gospel is the power of God under salvation. There is power in the gospel message. I hope with the help of the Lord to magnify that truth, because as Paul got ready to preach there in Rome, he understood that the message he declared Was not a message in word alone, but it was a message that had great power. The gospel is, again, the power of God, this gospel of Christ. I want you to think with me what Paul says here concerning the gospel of Christ and its great power. I want you to see first the confidence that he had in the gospel of Christ. And by the way, the confidence you and I can have in the gospel of Christ. He says, For I am not ashamed. Not ashamed. His confidence was such that he had no reason to be ashamed of this great gospel of Jesus Christ. He was confident that it would do what God said it would do. I think sometimes that we try to decorate the gospel because we do not have the confidence that the great apostle Paul had. Perhaps we think it needs something more to be attractive. Can I say to you this morning that we need no decorations Hung around the gospel of Jesus Christ, it alone is the power of God unto salvation. There is power in the gospel of Jesus Christ. There is power to save lost souls. There is power to make dead men live. There is power to make those that are dirty and wicked and filthy and vile clean and righteous and holy in the eyes of God. Now that is real power. The leopard may not be able to change his spots. And a man cannot change his heart. But the gospel of Christ can make you different than anything you could ever become. That's the power of the gospel of Christ. And only the gospel of Christ can do that. This confidence Paul had was an unshakable confidence. It's rooted in several things. And by the way, if your confidence is rooted in the right things, it will hold. It was rooted number one in a testimony. Would you go over here to 2 Timothy real quick? 2 Timothy chapter number 1. Paul's confidence was rooted in the testimony of someone. I want you to see who that was. Second Timothy chapter one, verse number seven says, For God hath not given us the spirit of fear. But of power and of love and of a sound mind. Now, verse number eight, notice what he says: Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord. Do you see the testimony? Nor of me his prisoner, but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God. Paul said, I am confident in the gospel of Christ because it's rooted in the testimony of the Lord. It's rooted in the testimony. What is the testimony? The testimony is that declaration of who and what an individual is. And Jesus' declaration was and is: I am the Son of God. And Paul wrote, and we've already looked at this truth, he said that he was declared to be the Son of God with power by the Spirit of holiness and the resurrection from the dead. Can I say to you this morning that if you're believing in the gospel of Christ and trusting in the Lord Jesus for your salvation, you're not believing simply the testimony of another man? You're not believing the testimony of just mere religion. You're believing in the testimony of the Lord Himself. Our confidence is rooted in the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, there may be a lot of folks that you cannot trust, but I'll tell you this: you can trust Jesus. Without hesitation, without reservation, you can believe in the testimony of our Lord. Not only was this confidence rooted in a testimony, But it was also rooted in trust. It was rooted in a trust. Go down a little bit here in 2 Timothy to verse number 12. He says, For the which cause I also suffer these things. Nevertheless, I am not ashamed. For I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day You know what he said? My confidence is rooted in a trust. I trust the Lord Jesus Christ. I trust him without hesitation or reservation because I know that he is able to keep that, and I believe Paul's speaking of his soul, of his eternity. Keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. You can be confident in the power of the gospel of Christ simply because you know you can trust the Lord Jesus without reservation. You can trust him with all of your heart, all of your soul, all of your mind, all of your strength. with all of your person because he will not fail. Trust him, he will not fail. I love the story of an old Scottish pastor who went up into the highlands to speak to an elderly lady about her soul's salvation. She could not see it. She just could not see it. She had trouble, and in her life she had been so disappointed in people and so deceived by men that she just couldn't trust anyone And this view pastor struggled and tried and did everything he could to tell her, but you can trust Jesus. She lived across a little brook, and there was a bridge there. That had been put in place for many years. There's a Gaelic word for trust. It's called lipin, L-I-P-P-E-N, lippin It means to trust with confidence because you know the thing you're trusting will not fail. And so as he began to leave her home, he had to cross the little bridge, which was just within eyesight of her front door, he stopped at the bridge and having what he called a moment of inspiration, and he acted like he was afraid to cross the bridge He put one foot out and he pulled it back. He put another one out and he pulled it back. He hesitantly stepped on it and jumped off and jumped back and and the old uh uh the old lady came to the door and she said Just lippin' the bridge. Just lipping the bridge. And he turned around and he said, he made this statement. Just lip unto Christ, Granny. Just lip unto Christ. And you know what he demonstrated to her? She said, you can trust that bridge. It'll hold you up. And what he made very clear was that you can trust Jesus Christ because he's able to save your soul. Our confidence this morning is in a trust. We know we're per and Paul said this, I'm persuaded. He was absolutely, totally, unequivocally convinced that he could trust the Lord Jesus Christ. Dear friend, you might hesitantly trust men and wisely do so. You may be very cautious where you put your trust in faith. But I want to report to you this morning without reservation or hesitation. You can trust the Lord Jesus Christ. You can take your soul, put it in his nail-scarred hands, and know that he's able to save to the uttermost. Those that come to God through Him. This confidence is rooted in trust. Let me give you one more thought about it. This confidence is rooted in truth. Testimony's one thing, trust is another, but truth is the crown on the whole thing. It's rooted in truth. What is the truth? Notice what Romans uh tells us again, Romans 1 16. He said, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. You remember when Jesus stood before Pilate, he told Pilate that he had come to reveal truth. And Pilate asked the question, which never got the answer, in John 18, 38, what is truth? And I've often wondered why was there no answer given? Well, because there was no answer needed. The truth was standing in front of Pilate. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Folks, if you're looking for truth, look no further than the Lord Jesus Christ. He is truth embodied. Please understand me this morning. There is a world that is mad, in it's insane, simply because of a rejection of truth We have gotten so confused that we cannot see the nose that's plainly on our face. We are so absolutely living in a a mass of insanity that we make silly statements like That's your truth, but this is my truth. Beloved, if it's true, it's true, whether it's yours or mine. No man has a handle on truth. And so what we see is that the Bible makes a declaration that our culture is disgusted by, but it's still the truth. You cannot change truth. I'm amazed that we have gotten so fearful of being dogmatic that we no longer say without reserve that two plus two is four. That somehow or another you might come to a different conclusion. My dear friend, there are things that you cannot change and laws that God's established, and and and it's true. There there is there are truths. Listen, there is a a truth, a principle God has established called gravity. And you may try to defy it, but beloved, it will come back to bite you. Gravity will bring you down when you think you will stay up. I could say this morning, I don't believe in gravity. Gravity is not my truth. And I'm going to prove to you that gravity is not my truth, and I'm going to walk off this platform. Well, I promise you the two hundred and none of your business pounds of me will come quickly crashing down because that's truth. There's truth you cannot deny. There is truth that there is a place called heaven because Jesus told us so. There is truth that there is a place called hell because he likewise told us of that. There is truth that says Jesus is the only way to heaven. This isn't man's truth, this isn't Baptist truth, this isn't religious truth. This is just plain truth as it's found in the Word of God. And the truth is, Jesus is the only way to heaven. Paul's confidence was in the truth. Now look, if you know the truth, what does the Bible say? If you know the truth, it'll do what It'll make you free. Free, set free from fear and set free from the foolishness of superstition and religious ritualism and all the rest. There is a great freedom in knowing the truth, the blessed truth. You see, Paul said, I am not ashamed, because he was real confident in the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He was so confident that he said, you know what the answer for Rome is? It's not a new emperor. It's not a different political structure. It's not a reformation in that realm or a social transformation. It is in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Church, are we confident of that? Are we confident that the answer is still Jesus? Are we confident this morning that what America needs is she just needs Jesus Christ? From the rioters on the streets to the rebels in other places, men just need the Lord. We're confident that what will make a difference is Jesus Christ and Him alone. Paul said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. Oh, what confidence he had in the gospel. Let me say quickly, number two, you'll notice the conversion by the gospel of Christ. He says it like this: it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. He's talking about here this thing of regeneration. Would you listen to this little verse over here in Titus? I believe it's Titus chapter number three and Verse number five, not by works of righteousness, which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. by the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Ghost, which is shed which, excuse me, He shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior. I want you to notice that that's the power of the gospel of Christ. It regenerates. What does that mean, preacher? It makes alive It takes what was formerly dead and makes it live. It makes it have life. Jesus said, if we have him, we have life. He said, I have come that they might have life and have it more abundantly. There is a regenerating work of God in this salvation. Dear friend, please hear me. God will take you like you are this morning, broken, lost, helpless. without mercy, on your way to hell, damned and doomed for all of eternity. He'll take you in that condition, but he will not leave you that way. He will change things in you. He will regenerate you. This don't come through just praying a little prayer and giving mental assent to some facts that you acknowledge are are true. This is the work of God in the soul of man that makes what's dead live, what's lifeless have life, what's hellbound Now heaven bound, what was a sinner a saint? That's the power of God. And only God can do that. Only God can do such a thing in regeneration Communism once boasted that it could put a new suit of clothes on every man. But only Christ can put a new man in that suit. Only Jesus can put life in your dead soul. Regeneration, that wonderful work of God. See, I'm not talking about joining a church. Getting baptized, uh, lighting candles, signing cards, praying prayers. I'm talking about meeting the Lord in a saving way, where he regenerates you. You know you've passed from death unto life. You may not know all the theological jargon. You may not understand all of the terminology or even the depths of what God's done But the reality is you know when God comes and makes you live. The work of regeneration Oh, what a powerful gospel it is. It's the dynamite, if you'll let me. By the way, it's where we get our Greek word, uh our English word dynamite from is this word used right here, the dunamis, the power of God. That that that is the dynamite of God. Dynamite has great power, don't it? And I mean you can arrange it in such a way an unmovable stomp can be obliterated with one little blow. We were down in Statesville, North Carolina, building a Lowe 's warehouse, and I was the grease monkey on the crew service and equipment. And they had to blow this big rock and man it was just right in the way, right where the building pad had to be and they drilled two weeks there. I don't know how many holes, how many charges. But I was down there when that thing went off. And I remember getting the call on the radio to go to the safe place and get in your truck and you know, don't be standing outside. And I'd never seen anything like this. I'd never seen a charge like that. had a herd of wild goats that somebody had turned loosen around that property. And for whatever reason they I mean you'd go to start equipment there in the morning and there'd be goats on a big D ten dozer standing on the roof of it. you know, just looking around. They'd sleep in the seats of the equipment and lay everywhere. There were goats everywhere. I don't know what uh what what they were what their purpose was, but anyway, they didn't belong to anybody. We couldn't find anybody to corral them And I remember the morning they set off that charge. They tried to herd those goats up the hill and get them away from that area. And just as the countdown began, you could hear it on the radio, he's counting down. Those crazy goats started towards that charge. And things were already in process. There's no stopping it once it once you start that thing. And so when that went off, not only did it rain rocks, It rained goats. Do you say you think pigs can fly? No, but I've seen a goat fly. I've seen a few of them fly, actually. Their landing wasn't too graceful, but boy, they took to the stars But you talk about power. The earth shook. Those big old bulldozers, I mean they trembled. You could hear the metal clanging on those things. There was so much dynamite, so much charge. And I'm here to report to you this morning that that pales in comparison to the gospel of Jesus Christ. God can change a man's heart You say, preacher, here's a man who's a derelict. He's down and out. He's hooked on drugs or alcohol. His life is in continual control and chaos. Because of his sin. Can God do something about that? I've got news for you, he can. The gospel of Jesus Christ can get a down and outer and an up and upper. He can go wherever. There is no limit to the gospel of Jesus Christ. A man may own everything you can own in the world and think he's got it by the tail, but listen, he's dead in his trespass in sin. Think about that rich man in Lazarus. That rich man fared sumptuously every day. And I don't believe this is a parable. I believe it actually happened. Here's a man who had everything your heart could imagine. It looked like he was a winner, but he really was a loser. Because when he died, he lifted his eyes in hell When Lazarus, he looked like the loser. He was a beggar. The only comfort he had was some dogs who had come by and lick his old sores. Even the dogs felt sorry for him. Here is the man that had no comfort in this world, but the Bible says when he died, the angels come and carried him to Abraham's bosom. Now you tell me who's the rich man now. I mean the real wealth that that's possessed is not measured in dollars and cents, it's measured in eternal life in the Lord Jesus Christ. Understand this morning that there is regeneration available. Paul said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. Notice its reach. Who does it reach? Everyone that believeth. Look how far it goes. Paul said in 1 Timothy 4, verse 10 that Jesus is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe. There's both potential and power in that verse. The potential is everybody can be saved. The power is seen in those who get saved. See, just because you are a citizen of the United States doesn't mean you believe. Just because you're a member of Marinatha Baptist Church doesn't mean you believe. Just because you're Christian, you belong to a Christian family by name, does not mean you believed. Oh friend, please. Hear me this morning. That that that this is a work of God, this thing of a reach. It involves everyone that believeth, believes to the saving of their soul. When Jesus stood at Lazarus' tomb, he said, I am the resurrection, the life. Whosoever believeth on me, he says, shall not die, but shall live. And then he asked this question, believest thou this? Standing in that crowd of people were individuals who believed and some who didn't believe. And sitting in this congregation and listening to this message this morning are men and women who believe and men and women who do not believe. Now, which one are you? Notice with me the reach of this gospel message and then the revelation. Look what he says to the Jew first and also to the Greek. He's making it known that the gospel first in Acts 13 says it was necessary that it be preached to the Jew first. But here's what they did: they rejected it. And God said, Because of that, I'm turning to the Gentiles. And what does that tell me? That there is a work of God in the salvation of man. You don't get saved when you choose to get saved. You don't just decide, say, today I'm going to get saved. You're not God. There's a great body of truth that must be revealed to your blind eyes and revealed to your dead heart. There is a work of God that must be done in you. We have so cheapened the gospel of Jesus Christ that we've made it like buying a candy bar. And we say, Do you want a can a candy bar? Don't come ask me, don't ask me dumb questions, please. I want a candy bar, all right? I may not need a candy bar, but I always want a candy bar. Don't ask me that. You ask people, do you want to go to heaven? Well, only a fool would not want to go to heaven. I mean, listen, we're not selling candy bars. We're not dealing in something so frivolous. Beloved, we're dealing with souls. And it is God that must open blind eyes. It is the work of God that must make a dead man live. And he makes that truth known. He makes it known to us. He opens the eyes of her understanding. That's why you don't play with God in the gospel. That's why God's dealing with your heart. You don't say some other time. I'll do it whenever I get ready. A convenient time, like old Felix said, when a convenient time. That never comes. When God's dealing with your heart, when you know you're lost, when you see that Jesus saves, that's the time to respond to the gospel. The gospel is not some little truth that we can trifle with. It's the gospel of the Almighty God, of Christ, of the one who must reveal these things to men. It is the power of God and of salvation to everyone that believeth to the Jew first and also the Greek. Now look please at the contents. For verse 17 says, For therein, therein, the gospel of Christ, is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith. As it is written, the just shall live by faith. Look at the contents first. It is the righteousness of God. Folks, I think we missed the mark. When we magnify eternal life over the righteousness of God in salvation Salvation's more than just living forever. Salvation is possessing righteousness that you don't have. It's getting the righteousness of Christ as your own righteousness. Martin Luther said when he studied this text, he grew to hate the righteousness of God. He said, When I thought of the righteousness of God, it condemned me. And by the way, it condemns us all. The Bible says there is none righteous. A friend of mine, he used to argue all the time, my house is white. Painted it white, said it was. He said, I'm sure of that until it snowed. And he said when it snowed, he got to looking at his house and he said, My house putting here looks like it's dirty yellow. It's not white. And see, compared to something so pure The flaw stood out. Do you know what the Bible says about your righteousness and mine? Every good thing you could ever do or ever accomplish is filthy rags in the eyes of God. It's like that supposed white house against that white snow. There's no comparison. God's righteousness is absolutely perfect, and by the way, it's God's requirement to enter heaven. Only righteousness is allowed there. Only righteousness can be in his presence We do not have righteousness, but thank God. Look over here in Romans 3 real quick. I want you to see even the righteousness, verse 22 Even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ, unto all and upon all them that believe. Romans chapter 5 and verse 17 makes it quite clear as well, for if by one man's offense death reigned by one Much more they which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness shall reign in life by one Jesus Christ. Listen, dear friend, there is a righteousness that can only be received by faith as a gift from God. You can't create it, you can't produce it, and what you do is inadequate. You can't do enough or be good enough or accomplish enough. The great lie of the devil is this. Just try. There's no trying, friend. There's only trusting. There's no efforts of our own to be righteous. Recognize that the righteousness of God comes through the person of Jesus Christ and is a gift from the Lord to those that believe. Look at the revealing of this. It says again back in our text here, Romans 1. That the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. From is the beginning and to is the continuation. You get saved by faith and you walk by faith. How do I get this righteousness? How do I receive this righteousness? You receive it by faith. You say, preacher, that strips me of all ability. Now you're getting it. That takes away from me everything that I could ever boast in. Yep, that's exactly what it does. You mean it leaves me a dirty, rotten, lost, hopeless sinner at the feet of a merciful Savior? That's exactly where it leaves you. When you realize you have no righteousness of your own, and that the only righteousness you can have is by putting your faith In the finished work of Jesus Christ, in the person of the Son of God, and you realize that He will then give you what you do not have. That is salvation. It is a work of God, this thing by faith. I think we recognize that there are two kinds of religion in the world. There's the religion of do and the religion of done. There's religion that says, well, you gotta do this, you gotta go to church, you gotta be good, you gotta pray, you gotta give, you gotta and and all that And look, Baptist got as much religion as anybody else. There's all kinds of religion running round. But please hear me. I'm not talking about doing. I'm talking about what's been done. It is finished, Jesus said. He put a great big exclamation point at the end of that and said, salvation is entered into. It's not obtained by works and labor and such. It breaks my heart to see so many people deceived today and think if they just be, do you know how wearisome that is? If I just do enough? If I can just be good enough? If I can just achieve this, notice this requirement, he says the just shall live by faith. Romans chapter 5 and verse 1 says, Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God. How do I become just? A man's title can only be made clear by faith in the gospel of Christ. Our record in heaven is not good You stop and think about all of the wrong you've ever done, but you say, preachers, there'd be some folk about arrogant enough to say that I've not really done that much bad. Have you thought it? God marks that as sin. Has it been brewing in your heart as a desire, and the only thing that kept you from it was the consequences? I was sitting in a bank in Nova Scotia with an old evangelist. He's in heaven now. And and we were sitting there just waiting our turn and and uh he he just shook himself. He said, Where'd that come from? And I thought, what in the world? We weren't talking. He was just sitting there thinking. He said, Preacher, do you know what my rotten heart was thinking? I thought, I don't know if I want to know. He was very honest. He said, I was sitting here looking around thinking how easy it'd be to knock this bank off. I said, Well, preacher, are there things we need to know, sir? He said, how vile my wicked heart is. I'll never forget that. Dear friend, you and I can't But I I c I can't get my head around folk that think they're better than everybody else, because the truth of the matter is we all got the same rotten, condemned, lost heart. We're made of the same old filthy stuff. Yours might be more cultured than somebody else's, but it's still just as corrupt. And the answer this morning, the answer this morning is to be justified by faith. I cannot go and change my record. by my doing good or by my some sort of religious ritual. Only God can change the record. Only God can justify me. And he does so when I believe on his son. When I trust the Lord Jesus to be my Savior, He writes my record clear. I'm justified by faith. What I was, I ain't no more. The record against me has been blotted out, the handwriting of ordinances, it's gone, it's under the blood. been put away and thank God I'm now free. That's salvation, dear friend. No wonder Jesus said, Come unto me. All ye that labor and are heavy laden, I'll give you rest. Isn't it a wearisome thing to try to be a Christian when you're not? It's an impossible thing. It's a burdensome thing to try to accomplish what you cannot accomplish. But what of rest you find when you come and just put your head on the feet of the Lord Jesus and say, Have mercy on me, Lord I'm done trying, I'm done, I'm done trying to accomplish it, I'm done trying to to to to make myself righteous. I'm going to trust you and take that gift from you. That you give. I'm coming to you as my Lord. I'm bowing down at your feet. Lord have mercy. And you know what you'll find? You'll find a mighty soft pillow to lay on. You ever been away from home and had less than ideal conditions to rest in? I used to travel two weeks out of every month and preach meetings across Canada, and man, I've slept in Sunday school rooms, on church pews, in the floor. And I've done that for a two-week stand at a time, and you come home and you're like, you hadn't really slept. You know, you kind of exhaustedly shut your eyes. But man, when you get home and you lay on that soft bed with that pillow, turn the heating pad on to make everything that hurts quit hurting. And the heating blanket on so that everything's cold gets warm. My, my, you talk about sleep. And rest. I mean it's about like just arriving in heaven. And I believe, dear friend, that soul, maybe there's a soul listening to me this morning, and you've been trying to be a Christian, you've been trying to get right with God, you've been trying to do everything you can do, and still peace eludes you. I want to report to you this morning there's a great place of rest, named the Lord Jesus Christ. There's one to whom you can look and one upon whom you can rest, and in him he said, I will give you rest. I just read this week again of the conversion of Martin Luther, a German Roman Catholic monk. Who really had a heart that wanted to please God and do right and be righteous, but he found he could not do it. He was so rigorous in the following of his rules, he would sleep in those cold German winters without a blanket, thinking that he was bringing his body into subjection. He would later get so infatuated with that sort of thing that he would beat his body and afflict himself, hoping that somehow that would appease God. In 1510, 1509, somewhere in that area, he took a pilgrimage to Rome. He thought, if I can go see the holy city. I will see something that will uh that that will bring peace to my heart, and I will get close to God, only to be so disillusioned that he would leave that city disgusted with what he saw. The cardinals and the Pope himself were very vile men. They lived in luxury while those around them suffered in poverty. They lived in debauchery, open sin, the feastings and the filth that went on in those so turned and revolted his heart, he left there not saved, still believing in his heart that the Pope was likely the Antichrist. Not saved yet. But as he talked through the Psalms, it took him to a reference in Romans 1. A reference that was stated back in Habakkuk 3, verse 2. Found two other places in our New Testament, three in total, and it is the statement: the just shall live by faith. He said, as I stood teaching out of the Psalms, I began to realize that it is by faith righteousness is obtained. That it is by faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ that a man is made right with God. It is not through the works of his flesh. It is not through afflictions. It's not through religion. It's simply by faith. And he said, I felt my heart strangely warmed, and there I believe I was converted to God. Dear friend, listen to me this morning. Throw away those little prayers and throw away your put-on religion and believe on Jesus Christ. Let him come into you and change you and make you brand new. Let him do for you what nobody else can do. Come to him and find rest. And my dear brother and sister in the Lord, Can I urge you this morning to realize that the only righteousness you have is found in Jesus Christ? I have no boasting. I have no reason to be proud. I have no reason to say, look at me, I have to bow my head like you and say, were it not for the Lord's mercy, I'd be consumed. Were it not for the righteousness of Christ I'd be lost. Any goodness in me, any likeness to Christ in me, is a work of God, not a work of man And I must bow in humility and say, Lord, you paid it all. Jesus paid it all. And I owe everything to you Oh, dear friend, there is no room for you and I to boast save in the Lord Jesus Christ, who made us righteous. We all will enter the same way with a heart full of gratitude to the one who died for our sin. Oh dear friend, if you're not saved today, can I urge you to look to Jesus? You don't have to kneel in an altar. You can sit right there in that pew. You don't have to come to this church. You can sit right there in that living room, that sofa recliner. You don't have to be around a bunch of Christians. You'd be in a hospital room or a a care facility all by yourself. And right then and there you can Cry out, Lord, have mercy, and Jesus will meet you there and save you and redeem you and change your life and give you righteousness. And therefore, from that point on, you can say, Heaven is mine, not because of what I've done, not by works of my righteousness, but according to his mercy. The Lord had mercy on me and saved me and redeemed me. And you can go away giving him all the praise because he's the only one worthy. That you've been saved by the grace of God. Trust him today. Turn to him today. Call on him today and dear brother, sister, keep looking to him. Look nowhere else. I think sometimes we get saved and we're saved so long we start thinking that we're something. The Bible says if a man thinks he's something when he's nothing, he's deceived himself. That's the only one you got to blame, is you. You deceived yourself. We're nothing apart from Christ. Paul said, I know in my flesh there dwells no good thing. There's nothing good in you or me. But if you're saved today, you have Christ. And his righteousness. And he alone deserves the glory. I'm going to invite you to stand, Brother Dow. You come.