I want you to take your Bibles, please, and go with me to the book of Romans. Romans chapter number one. And I'd like to read the first seven verses in your hearing, Romans chapter one, and we'll read verses one to seven. The Book of Romans is the most comprehensive and concentrated gospel book in the whole Bible. You can't read a chapter of Romans without being presented the gospel of Jesus Christ. From one to chapter one to to the end. And so throughout this book Paul explains in great detail the gospel of the Lord Jesus. And it's in my heart to go through this book simply With the focus being on the gospel. Because I believe that is the focus of the book of Romans. And so as we study together, I pray the Lord would help us to see very clearly this precious gospel. In Romans chapter number one, I'll invite you to stand, please, as we read God's Word together. I'll read aloud. You please follow along silently. We'll read verses 1 to 7 here this morning. Romans chapter 1 and verse 1 says, Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle. Separated under the gospel of God. Note that title, The Gospel of God, which he had promised afore by his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. Concerning his Son Jesus Christ, our Lord, which was made of the seed of David, according to the flesh. And declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead. By whom we have received grace and apostleship, that's Paul speaking here, for obedience to the faith among all nations for his name. Among whom are ye also the called of Jesus Christ, to all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm going to stop reading there and I I want to emphasize And magnify that statement, the gospel of God. The gospel of God. Father, we thank you for the privilege that we have to pray and to be in this place this morning. How we ask, Lord, that the Spirit of God would do his good work in every heart. You know our need here this morning, and so we trust you for that and ask that you would undertake. Help me, Lord, and hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. Lord, I feel like I'm trying to explain nearly the unexplainable, simple yet so profound. Father, I pray for your enablement. And Lord, we ask that you would work in every heart, and I pray you'd save the lost and reclaim that backslider and deal with every heart. Lord, just write where we need it and what we need, and we'll praise you and thank you for all that you do. For we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. Like many books in the Bible , there is a verse that is the key to the whole book. And I believe that if you get that key, you can open up a lot of truth throughout the entire book. In Revelation chapter 1 and verse 1, we read the revelation of Jesus Christ. And I believe that's the key to that whole book. If you get the point that Jesus Christ is revealed in the Revelation, then you get the meaning of the entire book of Revelation. And it makes a whole lot of the rest of it make more sense. In Romans chapter 1, God did the same thing. He put the key in the front door. And the key is the gospel of God. And if I'm to understand the book of Romans, I've got to understand it in light of the gospel, the gospel of God. Now what a title that is. I know we know many of the names of the gospel. Sometimes it's called simply the gospel. At other times it's called the gospel of Jesus Christ. Sometimes it's called Christ's gospel. On other occasions, Paul said it's my gospel. And though there are many names for the gospel, there is only one gospel. There may be many ways to describe it, but there's only one gospel, and that's the gospel, the saving gospel of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ the Lord. Now Paul calls it here the gospel of God. That's an unusual title. And that gospel of God is a broad title, and I I hope to help you see this morning as the Lord is working in my heart about this. How much it takes in. Someone said that a big gospel needs a big name. And this big name is the gospel of God. This gospel envelops a whole lot of truth. It's a very large gospel. And may the Lord help us, as we walk through the book of Romans, to always remember the gospel of God. I want to say number one, the gospel of God includes prophecy. Someone said to me, they said, you know, I like the new, I don't care much for the old. I said, well, I must tell you something, sir, that you wouldn't have the new without the old. The new is born out of the old. The New Testament is born in the Old Testament You can't separate the two. Folks, you don't have two Bibles, you have one. You do not have one part that you know, is applicable today and the other part that we can just lay aside. Folks, it is a book that's married together from Genesis to Revelation. And so this gospel, you know what Paul did when he said he called it the gospel of God? He reached back into the Old Testament as he's pinning the new and he brings the two together so that they're one book. One of the reasons I've tried to encourage you to read your Bible through is that you see in the old what is developed in the new. That you realize that there's a lot of seed in the Old Testament that bears fruit in the New Testament. That there's a blending, if you will, or a coming together, a completion. uh of the two. So look with me if you will at verse number two. The Bible says, which he had promised, talking about the gospel of God. A four by his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. Now that title, as I've already said, blends the Old and New Testament. It brings the two. They do not preach a different message. I want you to see that. I hope I pray the Lord will help us see that. The Old Testament doesn't communicate one thing and the New Testament communicate another. There's one message in the Word of God. This title envelops Old and New Testament, and so you say, Well, preacher, what is the teaching of the Old Testament? If I could simplify the New Testament, man, this is a stretch, but if I could simplify the 39 books of the Old Testament, I would simply say this: someone is coming. Someone's coming. And that someone is coming to be a sacrifice for the sins of the whole world That someone who's coming is going to be like nobody who's ever been. That someone who's to be born is going to be nothing less than God Himself in flesh. That someone who's coming is going to do what no one else can do. No angel in heaven, no man on earth, that someone who's coming is going to redeem fallen mankind. That's the message of the Old Testament. What a message it is. Literally, from Genesis to Malachi, you have a message declaring that this someone is coming. Then I see in the Old Testament types. Not only a teaching, but I see types. And by that I mean pictures and shadows and illustrations. You know, the Old Testament is the first picture book. As a little boy learning to read, I liked pictures better than I did words. Some of us feel that way. We still like pictures when we do words. But the Old Testament is a book full of pictures. God draws so plainly in the Old Testament pictures of the Lord Jesus starting all the way back in Genesis chapter 3. He's drawing pictures. He's saying, this is who my son is. This is what my son will do. This is how he will come. And he draws picture after picture after picture of the Lord Jesus. No wonder Mr. Spurgeon said no matter where you read, seek Christ. Well, I'll tell you, when you start reading your Bible with a view to see Jesus, it's amazing how you'll find him on every page. You find the person of Jesus Christ throughout the Old Testament. And so what the Lord's doing is taking those thousands of years. And he's taking those 39 books, and he's taking those multiple personalities, and he's taking those those various pictures and illustrations. And he's making it crystal clear. I used to work for a guy that when he explained something, he explained it so thoroughly. That if you didn't get it, it wasn't his fault. If you had a napkin or a A a bill of sale or something like that. He'd say, Let me show you what I'm talking about. I mean, even if you understood. He was just that person. And he would take his he'd take his pen out and he would take whatever it was and he'd draw you a picture. He said, You get you get that? I if we were stocking, say a uh it was a heavy parts equipment place and and if we were stocking something and he wanted uh he wanted those brake drums up on the fifth level of of of shelving that he would say, Now now here, th this this where I want it, right right here. And he would draw one, two, three, four, five, right here. You know, I'm like, well, I can count to five. I mean, I may not sound like I can count to five, but I can count to five. And he would draw it out. He make sure, you know what he was doing? He was making it crystal clear And do you know what that Old Testament is? It's God's effort to make it crystal clear who Jesus Christ is. Crystal clear. No wonder the judgment of God was so harsh on the Christ-rejecting Jews of his day because they were without excuse. Every time they went into the temple and watched the blood being offered. Picture Jesus on the cross, blood being shed. Every time they uh took part in a fa a feast or uh or an offering or made a sacrifice, it was all pointing to the Lord Jesus Christ. Even the furniture in the place pointed to Jesus Christ. It's not the intent of my study to go back through the Old Testament, but I do want to say this, that it is a drawing, a picture, an illustration of who Jesus is. The gospel of God says I'm in involving the Old Testament or involving prophecy, so that it will be crystal clear No man can read the Bible through and be without excuse before God as to who Jesus is. I think the fear of some to know what the Bible says is because they do not want to be sure about who Jesus is. It's easier to reject in ignorance than it is in knowledge of who Jesus Christ truly is. So it included prophecy. Let me say quickly, number two, this gospel of God not only includes prophecy, but it is invested in a person. It's invested in a person. Look at verse 3, what the Bible says, concerning his Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh, and declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead. So the gospel, please, please hear this clearly. The gospel is a person. It is not a plan. Now you hear people say, Well, I use the Romans road. That's good. Use it. That's what it's there for. There's a gospel presentation to be made through the book of Romans. But know this that the gospel is not a plan, it is the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus said in John 17, 3, This is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent Salvation is in the person. Salvation is a person. It is the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's invested in the person. Now, when you share the gospel or when we preach the gospel, we should always get to the person. Don't get sidetracked by the plan Lord help me to say this right, but don't make the plan more important than the person. Don't make the plan a substitute for the person. I know there are multiple ways to give the gospel. People use uh the ABC, they use the again the Romans Road, they use all sorts of of tools, and those are great tools. Utilize every tool you can, but never get so hung up on a plan. That you bypass salvation being in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. The plan should lead you to the person. That's the point of the plan. The point of the plan is to get you to the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so use those plans, but again remember that the gospel is invested, this gospel of God is invested in the person of Jesus Christ. And notice what it says here about him. First, there's a great truth concerning his Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. The truth of the matter is that Jesus is God's Son. Jesus Christ is not a glorified angel. He's not a magnified man. Jesus Christ is God incarnate. And this is a truth that ought to be something more than seasonal. We just come out of the season. Thank the Lord for it. But this is a truth that transcends seasons. This is the truth that goes beyond the season of celebrating his birth. The reality is that Jesus Christ is God's Son. He's God incarnate. He's like no one else. There's nobody who comes close to the Lord Jesus Christ. He rises above all. Back in the Old Testament, we read about Saul being chosen to be king. And here's what our Bible says: he was head and shoulders above everybody else. Head and shoulders above everybody else. That means he was a tall fellow. All right. His head and his shoulders. I mean if you put a crowd of people together, his head and his shoulders was taller than everybody else. He had the appearance of being kingly material. I'm thinking about a brother that used to preach for us in uh youth camp, brother Jack Patterson. And the only thing I remember about Jack Patterson, other than his preaching, is that when he stood behind a pulpit as big as this, you could see from his waist up. He's the biggest man I'd ever seen in my life. See his belt buckled? I mean you're looking like, my goodness, I hope he don't carry that pulpit off somewhere. And he came and preached, and I remember he preached in a in a place and they had this wee little bitty pulpit. And when he got up there, it was laughable. I mean, it looked like he could take his hand and just squish that thing. He was such a big man. He was head and shoulders. He was waist and belt buckle above everybody else. But can I remind you of a great spiritual truth? Put whoever you want next to Jesus, and he towers over all. He holds a position that nobody else holds. He alone is the only begotten Son of God. That's what our Bible says. So we thank God for the Lord Jesus in this great truth. The gospel is invested in this person. But then notice the transmission. How did he come? Well, the Bible says, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh. That's how he got here. He came through that godly seed. Starting with and by the way, when you understand that, you'll realize why the devil was so intent on destroying that line. He wanted to destroy that seed. He wanted to do away with, eliminate. If he could stop it back in the garden, and he tried. When Cain killed Abel, that really wasn't about, and know, boy, if you get a hold of this, you'll see current events in a whole different light. That really wasn't about Cain and Abel. That wasn't about a bad brother and a good brother. That was all about the devil trying to eliminate that godly seed. The devil wanted to eliminate what God was going to do, although he's not omniscient, the devil I mean, he is not ignorant either. And therefore he knew that this seed would come. God already promised it that of the seed of the woman this this Messiah would come in Genesis 3. 15. So he started right away attacking that seed. And so from there right on through we find this assault of the enemy to stop the seed. But I want to report to you, no matter what the devil did, God was one step ahead of him. The devil could not eliminate the seed. He could not do away with the seed. Thank God the Lord Jesus Christ would come born of the seed of David. And you read your gospel accounts and especially in Luke's gospel and you trace that lineage and you start to understand that God kept his word and preserved the seed. Generation after generation after generation until Jesus Christ was born. That's how the Lord Jesus came. I'm saying that Jesus is someone like no other. There's no one else who came into this world like Jesus Christ did. God had prepared In fact, Hebrews says that he prepared a body. He's prepared this vessel. He has delivered him to us. Now look, understand that he did that for no one else. We study our genealogy and our history and our lineage, and that's a fascinating thing. Sometimes it's a dumbfounding thing when you go back and learn some things about your ancestors. I was studying that and I noticed an ancestor of ours that came across and came over to actually Prince Edward Island. I thought isn't that interesting? Here, my ancestors started out in Canada in Prince Edward Island and then I found out why they were there. I did some research on the ship and they were prisoners. I don't know what they did, but they got booted out of England and they got shipped over to Prince Edward Island for a hard scrap of life. All right? A lot of things you learn about your lineage, but here's what you'll learn: we all have come from Adam's fallen race. Every one of us. And and you know people talking about I'm related to this one, that one. To be quite frank with you, we're all related to Noah. I mean, we all are pretty close kin if you go back far enough. But the truth is, dear friend, that Jesus Christ did not partake of Adam's fallen race. He does not have the fallen nature. Coursing through his veins. God is his father. He's the Son of God. He's like nobody else. His lineage teaches us that The transmission or the coming of this person will tell us that. But then there's something even better than that, and that is the testimony of Jesus Christ. You read in verse number four that he's declared, that's that word testimony, he's testified to be, declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness by the resurrection from the dead. I want you to notice the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen, if he's not all he says he is, we're hopeless. So, what did he declare? What's his testimony? He lived a sinless life, and he rose a glorious, victorious resurrection over death. He's the sinless Son of God and He's the resurrected Son of God. And that testimony, when Jesus got out of the grave, declared himself to be the Son of God with power. We were preaching on the street in a little community called Truro, and this help me to be nice, Lord, she came up and she said, I'm the Messiah. I said, wow. I said, I'm Pastor Jamie Grooms. Good to meet you. And she said, no, she said, you need to understand something. I am the Messiah. I am Jesus, the Son of God. I said Lady, you got a problem. One, you're a lady. Two, he's already been here. He's he he he has been here and declared himself to be. And boy, the the more gospel truth we gave her, the matter she got and she proved she wasn't the son of God, not just by her her ver her mere uh um The fact that she was a woman, she she proved it by the language she let loose on us because boy she could cuss a blue streak. I never heard such language in my life. And I thought, isn't that pretty talk for a messiah Jesus never sinned. Now listen, you know this. Thousands hated him. And had there been any dirt to dig up, it would have been discovered. In fact, they tried at his crucifixion to lay some accusation against him, and they had to to fabricate a lie to do it. And ultimately, both Pilate and even the Jews had to admit there is no fault in this man outside of his claims to be the Son of God. None. You let somebody run for a political office, and you know that they'll go back to kindergarten to dig up dirt to lay it on them, and and it's amazing what they can find out. Buddy, if you want your ancestry uh research, just run for office. And they'll try to find something on you to tell. But isn't it marvelous that there was nothing to tell on Jesus? They and the scribes and Pharisees inspected him with a fine-toothed cone. They went over him from top to bottom. They watched his every move, listened to his every word, and they had to come to the honest conclusion, there is no sin in this man. He's declared to be the sinless Son of God, but the capstone of that great truth is it was not just a verbal declaration. It was a visible demonstration because on the third day he emptied out the grave. He got up. He's alive. He lives. That's how we know who he says he is. And I know, dear friend, listen, the resurrection is often contested by an unbelieving world. But you tell me this Why did so many hundreds and even thousands of those early believers die rather than deny Jesus was alive? They said, We'll die first. We know he's alive. Five hundred brethren saw him at one time And they were they were witnesses, eyewitnesses of the resurrected Jesus Christ, and they would lay down their life. You've got to remember something to be a Christian in that first century, to be a Christian in that New Testament church was a death sentence quite frequently. You either said, persecute me or put me to death. That's basically what you were doing when you followed Jesus And these people were so absolutely convinced that Jesus Christ was alive that they said, we'll die before we'll deny it. Now, every saved person here knows he's alive. Everybody who's a Christian here knows Jesus Christ lives. You know that he's made a difference that nobody else could do. You know that he's done something in your life that that only he could do. You know that he's alive. The testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ is a sinless life. and a glorious resurrection, and this is God's seal on his veracity. In other words, God said, I'll show you he's my son. On the third day, death can't hold him. Thank God for the resurrection. All of this is invested in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's invested in him. Please hear me this morning. You'll not find salvation in joining Marinatha Baptist Church. You'll not find salvation in stepping into the waters of baptism, here or wherever else. I can't understand this. People will pay thousands of dollars. Travel to Israel, get in that dirty Jordan River, and get baptized, and think they're more saved than somebody that gets baptized, baptized maybe in an old cow pond somewhere full of tadpoles. I don't get that. I I I I don't I don't understand. Well it's it's special. Well, you know what's special? Jesus is special. Really, he's special. That's what he saves, not all of that other stuff. You don't find salvation in lighting candles or uh repeating the rosary or rubbing beads or being some other uh brand of of religion. It's not in religion. It's invested. The gospel is invested in the beloved person of the Lord Jesus Christ. To believe on Jesus Christ is to have eternal life. Everything else be gone. It does not matter. Listen, if you believe on the Son of God, on the authority of the Scripture, you have life in the Lord Jesus Christ. That brings me to the third thing here I see about the gospel of God. It not only includes prophecy and is invested in a person, but it involves people. Thank God it does. It involves people. It's not a gospel for the animals. It's not a gospel for for the fish of the sea. It's not a gospel for the Uh for the angels, it's the gospel of God for the people of the world. It involves people. I want you to notice with me this transformation the gospel works. Paul said in verse 5: by whom we have received grace and apostleship. Now, Paul said, we've received. Remember in 1 Corinthians 15 when he said, I'm preaching the gospel, he said, the gospel I'm preaching unto you, I first received. He first received it. He couldn't declare it. I heard old um old Oliver Green preaching this morning on the radio. And he was talking about how there's probably hundreds and maybe thousands of preachers and evangelists and missionaries who preach a gospel they have never received. That's a scary thought, but it's well within the realm of possibility. There's a personal transformation that takes place when a person receives the Lord Jesus Christ. He'll take you, friend, just like you are, but don't think too thoughts about it. He'll not leave you like he found you. He'll make a new creature out of you. He'll do something in you nobody else can do. Oh, dear friend, he transforms our life. Paul said it like this in verse 1. He said, I'm called to be an apostle, separated under the gospel of God. I love that. The picture there is that Paul was quarantined off and arrested, seized. God got a hold of him. I can still hear Dr. Whittage say it in school. Boys, don't try to get a handle on the truth. Let the truth get a handle on you Don't try to get a hold of something. Let it get a hold of you. That's what Paul said. He said, I have not apprehended that which I have been apprehended of. In other words, he said, I've been seized and separated, arrested by the gospel. Oh dear friend, we talk about people You know, praying prayers, making decisions, and doing that. I think we need to get back to Bible language and start saying, hey, when were you arrested by the High Sheriff of Heaven? When were you separated under the gospel of God? When did the Lord Jesus stop you on the road to rebellion and bring you as a humble sinner before a mighty Savior and cause you to cry for mercy? When did God do something like that in your heart? We've got our churches sitting full of lost people. I believe with all my heart, dear friend, there are people who are trying to be Christian, who've yet to be made Christian by Christ. They're religious, they know the lingo, they know all the language, they do this, that, and the other, and listen, they do it just simply out of rotten routine. What we need is the working of God in the heart of man Only God can take a madman like Paul and make him a minister of the gospel. He got separated under the gospel. He got arrested on that road to rebellion. The Lord Jesus Christ, that living Lord, stopped him in his tracks, confronted him with his situation. I'm just talking about how you get saved. I remember getting saved at eight years of age. I knew none of this this language and I knew knew very little of of what I'm trying to tell you this morning. But I do I did know this That as I sat there, I sat there a sinner. I knew I was a sinner. I got so thoroughly convinced of it that I feared the floor would open and I'd be in hell before the service ended. That's how real that became to me. I don't even know what the preacher was preaching on. I was sitting over here playing with my buddies. I wasn't paying a lick of attention. I didn't hear a thing as far as my eye I can remember that the preacher was saying, but I'll tell you something, God stepped into my life. And he showed me I'm a sinner. He showed me I needed a Savior. And I remember that awesome thought dawning on my soul that I could not go to heaven because mom and daddy were going to heaven. Would you hear me? I believe there's some dear spouses here trying to ride to heaven on the coattail of their husband or wife. Well, my wife's spiritual and she prays and all that. Well, that's good, but you need to be saved. My husband's spiritual, he's he prays. Yeah, but you need to be born again. The reality is that salvation is a personal work of God in an individual's heart, and God works. He steps in that situation. He arrested me I'm going to tell you something, as backward and shy as I was, nothing but God could have made me get up and go pray. Nothing but God. You say, what was wrong? I was terrified of going to hell, and I knew I deserved to go there, and he would still be good in God if I did. And going to that altar didn't save me. Going and kneeling beside that that register, that return register on the side of that platform, that wasn't what saved me. In fact, the prayer I prayed is not what saved me. The fact that somewhere between God's conviction and my conversion, I put my faith in the Lord Jesus Christ His arresting me and separating me is what saved me. He brought me unto himself. I couldn't tell you all of that then, but I've come to understand that this was God's doing. And old Mr. Whirley knelt down beside me. He wasn't there just a few weeks of time. He had preached the gospel so strong in a cold, dead, high-falutin church they threw him out, and so he came over there to go to church. And I believe God sent him there because he just had that, it was the man God wanted to talk to me, and he knelt down beside me and said, Young man, what do you need? And in a broken Statement, I just said I need Jesus. And he started, he didn't pray with me, he just started quoting scripture. I can still hear him, he just talking Bible. One verse after another after another. And the more he told me, the more I got broke on the inside, and he just kept patting me on the back and said, It'll be okay, son. He'll come. Jesus will save you Now, friend, we've got to get over this microwave Christianity this day and hour where we can stop at a red light, give somebody the gospel, get them converted in a moment of time, and then drive down the road. That's rubbish, friend. The Holy Ghost has got to seize a man, separate a man, save a man, convert a man, and he'll do that. He will do that great work. He may do it when you knock on their door. He may do it when you hand them a gospel tract. But make sure it's the work of God. We're not selling candy bars. We're exalting the person of Jesus Christ. We're preaching the glorious gospel of the Son of the living God that will change people's lives. Paul said, I was separated. Man, God seized him and made a lifelong prisoner out of him. Somebody said he put the cuffs of grace right around his heart, not his wrist , and made him his slave for eternity. That's what Chr that's what Paul said I am. I want you to notice this involves people not only A personal transformation, but the people to whom it's addressed. Look what Paul says. He says, for obedience to the faith among all nations, for his name. Among all nations. I love that picture. We're going to try to get back Revelation tonight, God willing. But I love that picture. Every tribe, kindred, tongue, nation, they're all up yonder in heaven. God don't care what color skin is. So might as well get that through your head. He he doesn't he didn't come to as someone said to save skin, he came to save souls. Thank God he does save souls. Red, yellow, black, or white are all precious in his sight. Among all nations, there's no nation Under the heavens where the gospel need not be preached, all men can be saved. God commands all men everywhere to repent. What a message. This broad invitation is extended to all. And by the way, all includes you. Now that's the work of God. When you began to understand that it includes you, you mean me, I'm part of all, I'm a whosoever, I'm one of those individuals You mean God would look at me and God would save me and God would hear my cry. You better believe that it's you that he came to die for and save from sin. Well, I don't have time this morning, but I'd like to magnify quickly the truth. There's a great truth here. This work of transformation that God does and this gospel that's to be carried to all. Brings with it a wonderful truth that we're called, verse six, among whom you're also the called of Jesus Christ Verse 7 to all that be in Rome, beloved of God. So we're called. We're beloved. Verse 7 says, called to be saints. Isn't it interesting that the Bible teaches us about being called to be saints in the book of Romans to the Christians in Rome? See, there's a certain thinking that says only the church can give you sainthood. That's hogwash. I was trying to think of a strong word that was nice to say. It's just it's silly. Church don't make you a saint. Jesus does. And we would be right within bounds if we addressed one another who were saved as a saint. That's what Paul says. You're called to be saint. You fancy this? You're Saint Ben. Saint Benjamin sounds a little highbrow, but you're Saint Ben? What? That's what Jesus did for you, though, brother. That's what Jesus did. And he says, we're beloved of God. We're the objects of the affection of God. We're loved of God. And I read this morning. I just sat there and shook my head and said, Lord, this is beyond my understanding. In Hebrews chapter 2, the Bible says he's not ashamed to call us brethren. What? He's not ashamed to call me brethren. Every once in a while I'll go to pray and feel such a sense of my sin I don't even feel worthy to speak his name with these old lips. And I say, Lord, I don't feel worthy. But listen, it ain't about me being worthy. It's about what Jesus did on the cross. And he's called me to be a saint. He's not ashamed to call me brethren. He owns me as one of his. Wow, what a work grace is done. That God would own you and I. By the way, he only does that because He that sanctifieth, that first part of that verse in Hebrews chapter 2, he that sanctifieth and is sanctified are one. Do you know why he's not ashamed to own me? Because he don't see me as me. He sees me in Jesus. He sees me as his son. He sees me just like Jesus. This is the work of grace. Someone said God does the work of grace, the impossible, in the unthinkable, and oh praise the Lord, how incredible. And then notice the change of tone as we close out this verse and our study this morning. Grace to you and peace from God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. You hear that? That's a tone of reconciliation. Grace and peace. See, if you're not saved, you're at enmity. You're at war with God. If you're not saved, you're a rebel. You are against God. God's against you. You're living in the land of rebellion. You're living in the death. That's where you live. The fists of your spirit are balled up in the face of a holy God. But when a man gets converted, now the tone changes. The tone changes We need to see that God's changed his tone with those who are converted. Now it's grace and peace. Grace and peace from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ. He's come not to make war, he's come to draw near. He's come to embrace those that are his. He's not coming with with judgment or con there's therefore now no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. Dear friend, he's not coming in those terms. He's coming with grace and peace. What a work the gospel 's done. And sinners like you and me. Thank God for the change of tone. When I was little, I knew by the tone of my father's voice if I was getting a spanking or getting praise or whatever. Could tell. When dad would say, son, go to your room or meet me down at the woodshed, and we literally had a woodshed. I had a deep path worn like an old cow trail from the house to there. And I remember going down there, and there were times that it didn't turn out like I thought. Sometimes it didn't get to tone right. You know, he'd want to talk to me about something. But that tone means everything, and I'm saying that the grace of Jesus Christ, the gospel of God, this salvation that He works in our hearts, changes the whole tone of heaven towards mankind. It's a tone of grace and peace. Why? Because of what Jesus did. All the enmity, all the war, all the opposition, all the sin, all the rebellion was nailed to Calvary's cross. Jesus bore it and took it away. I'm free, I'm forgiven, I'm washed, I'm cleansed, I'm His, I'm called, I'm beloved, I'm a saint. And now He says, Grace and peace. Grace and peace. Man, we can get excited about these knuckleheads chasing a uh a uh pig skin up and down the uh cow pasture somewhere and we can just sit in church and say, Well I'm going to heaven. Well God bless you. Get on up there. Thank God we've got the privilege to be called beloved saints. We're part of the family of God, Church. Greatest thing ever did God ever did for you, if he don't do anything else, if he saved you, that's plenty to praise him for all of eternity That's enough to give him glory until there is no more time. And then when time ends, to give him glory still. Thank God for such a wonderful salvation, the gospel of God. This isn't a fairy tale or Aesop fable. This is the precious inspired living words of God. It's what God said I've done. And I can choose to trust whatever, but I choose to rest on what the Bible says, even above how I sometimes feel, and over what this old dying world might say. This grand gospel is man's only hope. I said all that to say this, and I'm done. This is man's only hope. There's not a political fix. There's not a social or economic fix that will do for mankind what this gospel will do. It's a gospel fix, if you want to call it that, but whatever it is, it'll cure what ails you. Men need to know Christ died for our sin. That he was buried and rose again the third day and gives eternal life to whosoever will. Call on the name of the Lord. Let me just say this morning. Believe it. Believe it. Like Jesus confronted Mary in John 11. Believest thou this? Do you believe this? You ought to. It's the truth of the Word of God. Believe it. And receive it. Take it in. Take the gospel and receive. As many as received him, to them gave you power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Receive it. Receive the Lord Jesus. Don't put your trust in your church. Don't put your trust in your prayers. Don't put your trust in your profession. We're professional professors. I get so sick and tired of these fellas saying, well, we had a hundred professions of faith. Have those professions. Let's not make so much out of profession as we do possession. How many took hold? How many did Christ take hold of? We try to announce in one moment what it takes a lifetime to prove is real. Oh beloved, hear me, please. Uh take it and believe it and receive it and then go tell it. Go tell it. Of all the things you tell, of all the things you talk about. And there's so much going on today you can talk about current events until my friend the sun refused to shine. But you're not helping or doing anybody any good if you're leaving out the gospel. Tell it, tell people Jesus saves. Tell them again and again and again and again. You say I've heard it. Most of us here didn't get saved the first time we heard it Sometimes we had to hear it again and again and again. But thank God somebody kept telling. Somebody kept telling. Keep telling the glorious gospel. This gospel of God. I believe, my friend, the brightest star shining in the Bible, so far as the gospel 's concern, is this little book of Romans Paul went down in Arabia with a Jewish understanding of Messiah. He came out of that three-year wilderness experience with Romans under his arm, Ephesians, Colossians burning in his heart. Who taught him down there? Jesus did. God showed him. And this glorious gospel is so good, it's not exclusive to me, and it's not exclusive to you. In other words, you can enter into the joys and glories of it and know for yourself the wonderful power of Jesus saves. Two things. Do you know him? And are you telling it? Both ought to be rectified. Before you leave this place. Would you stand with me, Brother Dow, would you come with her hymn