Who takes notice of the likes of us. I'm thankful, O Lord, that we do matter to thee. Lord, we're nothing but a speck of dust. But yet we have the eye of the Father. Lord, we can't understand that kind of mercy. But we bow this morning and just want to say thank you for your great love for us. Thank you, Lord, for your faithfulness. And I pray, Lord, you would help us now to receive your word as it truly is your word. Give us ears to hear what the Spirit saith and help from above. For Lord, we've come in this place as your people, every one of us. Lord, we've gathered here because we need thee. And Lord, we're looking to Thee. Open the eyes of our understanding. And God will give you glory, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Would you please open your Bible once more to John 3:16? The Gospel of John, chapter number three, and verse number sixteen. And when you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please, as we read the Word of God. I'll read aloud. You follow along silently. In John chapter number three and verse number sixteen, the Bible says, For God so loved the world That he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life I don't know about you, but as you go through this, I find it interesting that the gospel is encapsulated in such a small statement. And just a few words relead the entire gospel. And I find things interesting in our English language because you'll see the gospel literally spelled out in this verse. I have in my Bible circled the letter G, the first letter in the word gospel, and that's God. And by the way, that's where the gospel begins. It is the gospel of God. Under the letter O, you see it over in the word only. His only. And by the way, there's only one way to heaven. Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. You find the letter S in Son, his only begotten Son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, there's the letter P, but have everlasting, there's the letter E, life The letter L. And there's the gospel, uh spelled out plainly in God's Word. You say accident? I don't think so. A God who is sovereign and rules over all, puts together things For our benefit and his glory. Thank you for standing to honor the reading of God's Word. You can be seated. We're bringing to a close, I think, our study in John 3. 16. And so far we've looked at several things about the love of God. I've discovered in studying such a subject that uh number one, it it's beyond Fathoming. It's deeper than we'll ever have time or ability or life to discover It's one of those things that the more you uncover, the more you realize you can uncover, the more that's there But we started by looking at the origin of love. Where does love come from? Well, the Bible says God, for God. And we talked about the importance of the fact that That God is love, that all love, anything we know about love in this life, and anything we know about love in general, comes from the fact that God is a God of love. And then we looked at love's object. The text goes on to say that for God so loved the world. And as Josiah and Emily were singing, I was reminded that even though I'm part of the world, the mass of humanity, that me, an individual, matters to the Lord. And although he said he so loved the world, speaking in broad terms, the world is made up of a multitude of individuals. Meaning that each one of you, each one of us here today, are someone whom the Lord died for. And we matter to him, for God so loved the world. Then we looked, I believe, on last Sunday, the operation of love that he gave his only begotten son. The cross of Calvary is a testament for time and eternity of the great love of God for mankind. You can't look at the cross without thinking about love. Because the man who hung there and died loved you so much that he gave his life for you and paid your sin debt in full. We've come now this this morning to the outcome of love. What what's the end of it all? What's the purpose of it What does it come to? Well, here's what it comes to. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life I want to magnify four, I believe, four great truths that are found here in John 3. 16. Four very simple truths, but I believe they're life-changing truths if we'll get a hold of them or Rather let them get a hold of us. Truth number one All can be saved All. You say, how can you make such a statement? The Bible says whosoever. Whosoever. That's a big word. You think about that word whosoever, and literally the door of mercy is swung wide open. Whosoever. In fact, I love these whosoever texts. I want to show you three of the four that I believe are the great whosoever texts of the Bible. If you'll look with me in Acts chapter number 10 and verse number 43, here's the first whosoever, one of those great whosoever texts. And Acts chapter number 10, let's go one book over. Acts chapter number 10 and verse number 43 Peter's preaching here, and listen to what he says. This is the end of his message. To him give all the prophets witness. That through his name, that's the name of Jesus, whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins. Here is the whosoever of forgiveness. Do you realize that whosoever can be forgiven? And may I add this of whatsoever? God is a whosoever, and he forgives whatsoever, because the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. He's a whosoever God that opens the door of mercy and says your sin. Now somebody might be listening and saying, But you don't know about my sin. And my friend, I don't need to know about your sin. The reality is, and the Bible is clear, that whosoever, as the text says, believeth in him shall receive remission of sins. Now, friends, you will not get your sins forgiven by just simply getting in a baptismal tank somewhere and getting wet. You'll not get your sins forgiven by kneeling down at an altar and repeating a memorized prayer. You'll not get your sins forgiven by lighting candles and rubbing beads and going through every religious uh motion that you can think of, but I'll tell you where you can get your sins forgiven. When you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, He forgives whosoever And I think all through the New Testament our Lord emphasized it by showing us people that everybody else had given up on. He showed us some individuals that the law said kill them. The law demanded stone them. The traditions of men said, be done with them. But here our Lord comes. And our Lord takes a woman who who the Bible says in John chapter number eight was taken in the very act of adultery And this woman was taken and she was brought into a mass of men, and those men had the authority to pronounce judgment. They had the Religious authority, and they had the ecclesiastical authority, and they had the political authority in that setting to pronounce her death And our Lord would stand between her and death. Do you realize the only thing that kept her from getting killed was Jesus? He was the only thing that stood between her and judgment. By the way, same for you. The only thing that stands between me and hell's him, the only thing that stands between me and certain death and judgment is the Lord Jesus Christ. Hear his words. He said, Woman, where are those thine accusers? Where are those men? Who is it that accuses you? Where are the charges now? Where are those thine accusers? She said, There's no man, Lord. There's no one left. They all went out one by one with their tail tucked between their legs, just walking away, because they had been convicted by the words Jesus spoke. Jesus said to them, he that is without sin, let him cast the first stone. Somebody's got to start it. Somebody's got to start the stoning, and usually it would have been one of those elders that would have had the responsibility, and as he cast the first stone, all the others would follow. But being convicted, the Bible says, in their own conscience, they went out from the eldest to the youngest. And leaving just him and her there, she said, There's no one here. Now, by the way, there was someone there who could have cast a stone. There was one there without sin who could have flung the first stone and started, and that was Jesus, but he didn't do it And when they walked away, Jesus said, Neither do I condemn thee, go and sin no more. Church, she got forgiven. She became a whosoever who was forgiven of her sin. Let me show you another whosoever. Romans chapter ten. You know this one, I'm sure. Romans chapter ten and verse number thirteen. If Acts 10 is the whosoever of forgiveness, Romans 10 is the whosoever of mercy. Romans 10 13 says, For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Did you hear that? Whosoever Here is a plea that is made to the Lord. What's the plea? Have mercy. Have mercy. Who needs to be saved? Men and women who are lost. Who needs to be saved? People who stand in need of mercy. See, the problem is most men won't get in. Most people won't get saved because they're not willing to get lost. They're not willing to get to a place of acknowledging, Lord, I need you. The problem with many is maybe even sitting in this building, you're still trying to help the Lord. You're trying to help the Lord do what only the Lord can do, and trying to help the Lord do what He's already done. He declared it from the cross. It is finished. And there, once and for all, salvation was secured for whosoever. And listen, here's the whosoever of mercy, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. As our Lord hung on the cross, two men were crucified with him, both criminals, both men who had earned their spot there. And as the crucifixion began, both of those men, the Bible says, they made accusations. They railed on him. In other words, they mocked and they joined in with the crowd. They were just as rotten as everybody else. But somewhere between the beginning of the crucifixion and the last breaths One of those men had a change of heart. One of those men suddenly realized this is Jesus. This is God's Savior, the salvation, my Savior. This is the only one who can help us. And so He makes a plea. Isn't it something? Here is a man in his dying moments, and he makes a plea. What does he plead? He doesn't plead his life. He doesn't say, now, Lord, uh weigh me out and and and hopefully my good is going to outweigh my bad. He doesn't say, now Lord, would you take into consideration that my crime's not as bad as some others that have been crucified here? No, you know what he said? Lord, remember me. You say, what did he say? Just Lord, remember me. It wasn't an eloquent prayer. It wasn't a long prayer. It wasn't, I mean in some circles it wouldn't even be a theologically correct prayer. But I'll tell you what it did. It got the ear of the Lord. And the Lord said, today shalt thou be with me in paradise. Here is a man in the last moments of his life Pled for mercy. And here is a God in heaven who's so full of mercy that he hears this plea and saves this man. And in the last moments of life. I mean, he's on the edge of eternity, being separated from God forever, and God saves him by his wonderful grace and goodness. That's a whosoever of mercy. Then in Revelation 22, we read this text, but let me ask you to look at it again. Revelation 22, 17 Here is the whosoever of the thirsty. Revelation 22, 17, and the Spirit and the bride say come. And let him that heareth say, Come, and let him that is a thirst come. And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely. Aren't you glad there's no charge? Salvation's free. Now know something, it's not cheap, but it sure is free. It doesn't cost you anything, but it costs him everything In your bulletin is a little story, and I hope you'll take time to read it. For some of us, we may have to use our magnifying glasses. The words are little, but you read it because it's worth reading. The story is of a little boy who is living on the streets and a police officer says to him, Son, if you'll go down the street and knock on the door of that big old white house. And say, John 3. 16, they'll take you in. And so he went to that home and he knocked on the door and he said, John 3. 16. She said, Come on in. And if you'll read the story, you'll find out that that little boy was hungry and thirsty and she made him a meal. He was dirty for he lived on the streets and had no way to clean himself, and she she provided a bath He had slept in a cardboard box the majority of his life, and now he had a big bed that was warm, and he snuggled up in that thing and went to sleep. The next morning she said to him, Son, do you know what John 3. 16 means? He said, No. But it makes a hungry boy full and a cold boy warm. And a dirty boy clean. He said, I want to know. And she told him about the Lord Jesus. I'm here to tell you, there's mercy to be had. And there's satisfaction for the thirst of the soul when we come to Jesus Christ. You know the sad thing is, some don't figure that out. Until they've lived a whole lot of their life. They've tried to satisfy that thirst with money or positions or Relationships and they've chased it all, and they've done everything they can do only to find themselves more miserable and empty. But I'm glad there's satisfaction in the person of Jesus Christ. There is a thirst that He alone can satisfy and quench. And he says, Whosoever will, let him take. You come, you say, but I'm not the right kind of person. Let me tell you something. If you're a sinner, you're the right kind of person. If you're one of these thirsty, you're the right kind of person. If you're the one needing mercy, you're the right kind of person. You're a whosoever, and he says, Whosoever will may come. And then our fourth whosoever is here in John 3. 16, whosoever believeth. This is the whosoever of faith. The whosoever of faith. Friend, if you believe, he saves. And I want to show you something here in the second statement. Not only do we see that all can be saved, But I want you to notice that faith saves. Faith saves. Whosoever believeth. Believe. Listen to these words in Ephesians 2, 8, and 9. For by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Let me say immediately that this is more than mental acknowledgement. You can mentally acknowledge something you don't spiritually receive. You can with your head say, well, I acknowledge he's Jesus. He's the one who died on the cross historically, we know. You can make some sort of mill. But James 2. 19 warns us about this stuff because James said, Thou believest that there's one God? Thou doest well. The devils also believe and tremble. But can I say to you this morning that the devils don't have saving faith? There is a saving faith. You say, what is saving faith? Saving faith is responding in a positive way to God's personal dealings and drawings. and declarations of truth. See, God works. Abraham's the father of faith. Isn't that what he's called? Genesis 15. We find Abraham believed God. I believe it's verse six He believed in the Lord, and it was accounted unto him for righteousness. Abraham started out his journey by just believing, a declaration of God. God was dealing with him and drawing him because God had plans for him. God was going to do something in his life. And he responded in faith to God's dealings. Please understand, I'm not saying this morning any man or woman can wheel themselves a Christian. You can no more wheel yourself a Christian than you can wheel yourself a car. Or an animal, or whatever you want to be. It's strange. We live in such a day that folk can say, well, I identify as a cat. I don't know why you'd want to identify as a cat, but anyway, they identify and they they want to identify and yet you don't change what you are. You are what God made you to be. And you don't wield yourself a Christian. God works in a man's heart, and faith must be exercised on your part. Whosoever believeth. Notice he says here very clearly that we b whosoever believeth in him Abraham was being dealt with by the Lord, and God drew him to himself, and he believed in his belief. Listen, saving faith is simple, and yet it's so profound. It's a work of God and an obligation of man all bundled up in one But I know this, the Bible declares Acts 16, 31, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved and thy house. The declaration of the Word of God is this faith saves. A man must come and have nothing in his hands he brings, but simply to the cross he clings. There's no saving or assistance in saving the Lord. You ever watch a little kid help somebody out? And they're trying to help carry something, and they're not carrying a thing. They got their little hands in the way, but they think they're doing something. And they might be sweating and they might be straining and but but they're really not carrying the load. And I think a lot of people act that way spiritually when it comes to salvation because we're trying to help you out, Lord. We're trying to help you out because now look at me. I read my Bible every day. And look at me, I pray, and look at me, I belong to such and such church. And Lord, look at me, I was baptized, and Lord, look at me. I I get on my knees to pray. Lord, look at me, I do all of this. But I'm here to tell you, friend, none of that saves a man None of that saves you. There's only one. You see, my faith, like the old hymn writer said it, my faith has found a resting place. It's not in device nor creed. I trust the ever-living one. His wounds for me shall plead. Hebrews chapter 4, the Bible says there's a rest. There is a rest. There is a place you can pillow your head, drop your anchor, and rest it. You know where it is? It's in the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the rest. Let me ask you, what's your faith in? Now, church, we've got to be careful because the devil's a master substitutor. He's a master imitator. He wants to take what's not true, make it appear to be true, so that you'll think it's true and be deceived. And there are a lot of things that we trust in. I doubt, I doubt there are those that i especially if you have been around this church very long, you're not trusting baptism, you know better than that. You're not trusting in all these other things, but there are times, my friend, if we're not careful, we'll elevate something to a place and we'll start trusting in. You say, what are you talking about? Well one thing I'm talking about is these memorized prayers. Well now preacher I've had people tell me they live like the devil and there's no evidence of new life and they say, well I prayed a prayer a long time ago. Well let me ask you something. What are you trusting in now? Where's your faith now? What are you trusting in? Do you believe on the Lord Jesus? I remember being a young man struggling with my salvation, the assurance of it, God had saved me. But I was looking for assurance somewhere else. And an old preacher knelt with me. I was about 15, 15 and a half years old, and that old preacher knelt beside me and He'd watch me come. Every service I'd be on the altar and I was struggling. He knew I was struggling. And I told him I was struggling. And and I'd come and I'd I knelt down right here in the front and he he he'd come over the edge like that and he said, boy. And of course I that was term in the south, that meant you. I looked like I was the youngest one down there. So I looked up and he said, Get up here. And I thought, oh boy, I've had it now. And he wanted me to come up here and he he had his seat up here and he said, I want you to kneel right here with me. And I remember him sitting there and he opened his Bible and he said, Now, now what's wrong with you? And I said, well, be honest with you, I don't know I'm saved. He said, you don't know you're saved. I said, no, sir. He said, well let me ask you something. What are you trusting in right now? I don't care what happened eight years ago or seven and a half years ago. What are you trusting this very moment? I said, sir, best I know how I'm trusting Jesus. He's the only one that can save me. I'm believing. I believe that he shed his blood to forgive my sin. I'm trusting in that. And that old man got up and he said, Well then, just go to hell trusting in Jesus. I thought that was a little harsh. And he left me. I know everybody up there heard it. He said it loud enough for the whole church to hear. And so I stayed on my knees a few minutes, and I thought, you know something? How does a man go to hell trusting Jesus? I mean, could I go to hell trusting in the finished work of Jesus Christ? Could I go to hell trusting in the blood of the Lord Jesus? If I can, then the Bible's not true. But, beloved, let me tell you something this morning. The Bible is absolutely true. And you believe, listen, when you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, there's a salvation that He works in your soul. Thank God that doesn't depend on your pitiful, puny, and oftentimes failing performance. Faith saves. Number three All who are saved escape hell. All who are s who are saved escape hell. Look what he says. In John 3. 16 again, whosoever believeth in him should not perish. Should not perish. Revelation 20, 15 says, and whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Now, if we could take a census. I don't know, when the last time they do a census? 2020, I think it was. I hope it's 2050 before they do another one. That's aggravating this thing. And they're more persistent Jehovah's Witnesses wanting to get a honey door and get in your house and ask you questions. But if we were to take a census in hell , we were to walk through it, Charlie, we would go and we would say, uh, are there any religious people here? Do you know there'd be hands up in hell? There's religious people in hell. I wonder if we walk through hell if we said, Hey, I wonder how many good people are in hell. Good by man standards. I'm upright, I'm moral, I I don't steal, and all of these things And I guarantee you we would find some good people in hell. I promise you this morning we'd find all sorts of individuals that we f hey, listen, I think we would find some Baptists in hell I think there'd be some people. Hey, were you a member of yes, sir? I was a member of a Baptist church. I believe, beloved, listen, we'll find some preachers in hell. People stood with an open Bible and declared, listen, there'll be some preachers in hell, but I'm going to tell you what, you search high and low, you'll not find one saved person in hell You'll not find someone whom the blood's been applied, who's trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ. You will not find one of them in hell. The Bible says in Revelation 21, 27, and there shall in no wise enter into it anything that defileth. Neither whatsoever worketh abomination or maketh a lie, but they which are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. I'll tell you something, wherever your name's written is where you'll be. Heaven's role will not be on hell's roster. If your name's on heaven's roll, it's not on hell's roster. The old primitive quartet back home, they sing, The only fire I'll ever feel is burning in my heart. And my friend, you and I, listen, all who are saved escape hell. It's the truth of the Word of God. And then number four, I want you to see something that I believe is very critical. So as we study the Word of God and see the outcome of God's love, we see that all can be saved and that faith saves, that the saved escape hell. But number four, I want you to see that salvation is eternal. Look what it says. Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Have. Not will get, but have. Do you realize you have eternal life if you're saved right now? Some people say, well, I'll get eternal life when I die. No, you won't. You got it when you were born again. You have eternal life at this moment. And Jesus said concerning Lazarus, he that believeth in me shall never die. I like how Dio Moody put it. He said, one day you'll read the paper that Dwight Lyman Moody died. He said, Don't believe it. It'll be at that moment I'm more alive than I've ever been before. Listen, just because you move out of this little house don't mean who lived in it's gone forever. This little house is just a tabernacle you live in. You've moved up, moved on, moved into your new home. And thank God, my friend, we have everlasting life. We have it. Salvation's eternal. The security of the believer is bound in the promises of God. The security of the believer. Number one, by definition. Let me ask you something. Do you believe God's so inaccurate that if salvation wasn't eternal, he would have called it everlasting life? I mean, if if he's he's exact, God's exact. And if he had given us something that's not eternal, he would have said temporary. Temporary. You ever go get license for something and it's a temporary license or a temporary permit? It means it's got an expiration date. It don't last forever. But but if you've got something that is uh everlasting, something that's enduring, something that's eternal, then then the wording or the definition is is different. And Jesus said this He said that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. I'm going to side with the Lord on this one. I believe what the Bible says. He's given me everlasting life. Not only is it by definition, but it's by demonstration. You know, earlier in this chapter Jesus spoke to a man by the name of Nicodemus. He's still speaking to him here. But he said to him, You must be born again. You must be born again. And salvation is called the new birth, being born again. Can I ask you a very simple question? Can you be unborn? After you're born. I mean, you you may not like where you were born or to whom you were born, but you can't change that. You can't you can go change your name, you can go to the courthouse and file and do all the legal paperwork, and you can change your name and say I don't want to be identified with them. I want another name. And you can do that, but it don't change the fact that running through your veins is the blood of that family. You're born in that family. You've heard it said you can choose your friends, but not your. You don't choose your family. I may not like being a groom's. I may not like some of the traits of the groom's people, but I'll tell you what I got in my veins. I got groom's blood. And I can't undo that no more than I can go out here and make the grass no longer be green or the sky no longer be blue. You can't change what God's eternally done. And so if Jesus said you must be born again and salvation is the new birth, you tell me how you can be unborn. The fact is, you can't be. The demonstration of salvation is an eternal work of God. You can't be unsaved no more than you can be unborn. Now you can act like you're not saved. You can oftentimes dishonor the Lord in your testimony, but at the end of the day, you can't undo what God in heaven does in your soul. I believe in the perseverance of the saints But if I can say it like this, it ain't on the saints, it's on the Savior. We're not holding out. You say, but what about that text in Matthew 24? They that endure to the end shall be saved. Can I say something? That's not talking to you? We're talking about tribulation Jews making it to the end. We're not talking about you and me making it to the end. If it was up to you, you'd lost it a long time ago. Isn't that true? How many of you lose things easy? You know what? Every time I come to church I have two problems. Number one, I forget where my keys are. Number two, I forget where I park. And I don't park in the same place. I'm going to start doing that. That'll help me not be look so ignorant. But my wife will come to me inevitably after church. She'll say, Where'd you park? And I'll have to stop and think. Did I park back here? Over there? Did I park? I don't know. We'll just have to go out, walk around, and hit the button. Thank the Lord for the invention of the button, right? I saw a a lady, an elderly lady, the other day, she's walking through the the the parking lot, big mall parking lot, and she had her tee fob up in the air and she was And it was only two two aisles over from her, and she walked by my car fifty times. I thought, I don't want to embarrass the dear lady, but she needs help. Somebody ought to go out there and You know, I'm thinking somebody and I'm thinking I should be the one. Go out to help that lady and show her their car's just right there. Bless her heart. She walked by it thirty times. It says beep, beep, beep, beep But if it was up to you to keep yourself saved, friend, you wouldn't be saved two minutes. You're not saved because you hold on. You're saved because he holds you. You don't unborn. You can't be unborn. It is by demonstration salvation is eternal. But then, my friend, it's by declaration. Our Lord was not uncertain on this. He was very clear again and again, John 10. 28, one of my favorite verses. Listen to what it says. John 10 28, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. Now here's a strong-worded verse. Very strong language. He says, there's no way. There's no way. In fact, double negative is used here. We don't use this in our English language. But they do in the Greek language, and he's saying you'll never, never perish. There's absolutely no way. It's utterly impossible. Listen to me. If you can lose your salvation, that means the work of Christ on the cross was incomplete. If you can lose your salvation, that means what Jesus did was defective. And I've got news for you. Our God in heaven, when he gave his only begotten Son, gave heaven's best brought a perfect salvation because Jesus was a perfect Lamb and He gives to you eternal life and you can't lose it, perish. Listen, you can rejoice in the reality. I'm saved, saved, saved by God's marvelous grace divine. And you can't lose what God's done. Now immediately someone I hear someone say, but preacher. What if I just go do what I want to? Well, if you're saved, you will Have consequences. He won't let you do what you want to do. Dr. Hitchens covered some of this in Sunday school this morning. Saved people undergo chastening from the Lord. And you say, but preacher, I've done what I wanted to and had no consequences. Well, then you need to check up. Make sure you're born again. Because my friend, God whips his younguns. He don't whip kids that don't belong to him. Some of us grew up in a time where you were fair game if you were misbehaving about anybody. Right? How many old enough to remember that? School teacher, Sunday school teacher, elderly neighbor. Huh? I ha I had neighbors probably whip me near as much as my parents did. You wouldn't want to be my neighbor, I'll tell you that. But they'd tune my height up and send me home. And I had more sense than enough to say, Mommy, you wouldn't believe what they did. Uh-uh, because if I took if it came out of my mouth, I'd have got it again The only one that ever ratted on me was my low-down little sister. No, I love her, but she was a rat, man. She'd tell She loved it. She got wind, I got whipping at school. She was the first one. Daddy, Daddy, guess what Jamie got? Guess what he got? And you know what? Guess what I got again when I got home? But the Lord doesn't whiff anybody but his own children. And if you're his child, you can't live any way you want to. He'll visit. You know why? Because he loves you. You know why we discipline our kids? Because we love them. We love them enough to get up in their face and say, hey, you're going the wrong way. This is going to destroy your life. And hey, you need to smarten up and listen up because your choices have consequences and you need to learn. Listen, that's why we discipline. And our Lord does the same because he loves you. He loves you. I'm glad he loves me enough not to leave me to myself. But salvation is eternal. I fear, and I do fear this truly. There are some who are not saved, who think they're saved. They trust this eternal security when there's not sufficient evidence that they've ever been born again. I'm going to tell you, if someone as big as God moves in, it'll make a difference. It'll change your life. Oh, you say, but preacher, will I have to grow? You better believe it. Will I need some maturing? Oh yes. Will there be struggles? You all count on it. Will there be failures? Mark it down. But there's new life in you. It's something you didn't have before. There's a longing in your heart to please the Lord. There's a new love in your life. You love the Lord. You love His Word. There's something new inside of you. You're not what you used to be. Old things have passed away. Behold, all things have become new. You've been made a new creature in Jesus Christ. And there will be evidence that you belong to Him. And that gift that He gives is eternal. Now, friend, let me ask you something. How have you responded to the love of God in the person of Christ? How have you responded to it? How have you personally faced the fact that God loves you So much that he would give his only begotten Son. And that you whosoever, if you would believe on him Should not perish, but have everlasting life. Have you said a definite yes to the Lord Jesus and his dealings? Or would you have to say, preacher, no? I'd have to bow my head and say, I've given him a shameful no. You may be sitting here comforting yourselves by saying, Well, I'm neutral on the matter. I I really hadn't decided one way or the other. Can I say to you, there's no neutrality in this thing? You've either received him or you've rejected him. To not receive him is to reject him. To not receive him is to turn him away. To not receive him is to say, no, Lord, I'm looking for a different way or a better way or some other way. But hear him say this, friend. Jesus said, I am the way. The truth and the life. And no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Listen to these words. A. B. Simpson wrote them years ago. He asks this question: What will you do with Jesus? Neutral, you cannot be. For someday your heart will be asking, What will he do with me? Friend, you're not going to stand when you leave this world before a tribunal of men. You'll not stand before a religious Amalgamation and pass some sort of test, you'll face the God of heaven who gave his son to die for you And heaven's entry is gained through the door. And that door is the Lord Jesus Christ. And here's what Jesus said once more: Him that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. Friend, have you come to him by faith? Have you come to Him for salvation? I'm not talking about joining a church or signing a card or I'm talking about coming to Jesus by faith and saying, Lord, save me. You're the only one who can Lord, I'm asking you to change my heart and to make me a new creature. Lord, I'm calling on you to save me. And He'll do it. He'll do it because he don't cast anybody out. Oh, but preacher, he don't want me. Hey, there may be church folk that don't want you, but the Lord Jesus does. There may be places in society you may not be welcome, but never at the feet of Jesus will you find a stay away sign. He says, Come to me. Come to me. Will you come to him? Will you come to him and be saved? Dear Christian friend, can I encourage you with the word of God that our salvation is an eternal work? It's a work of God. And we rest in what Jesus did, not in what we accomplished. We rest in him. He's our salvation. Would you stand with me? Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed.