I appreciate the young people. And if you listen closely, you heard a sermon. A very powerful sermon. And uh may God use it and send it home to our hearts. Could I have all of our fathers stand, please? All of our fathers, would you stand? Amen. Yes, give him a hand. Thank you, men. God bless you. You can be seated. At the end of the service, we have a little token of our appreciation on the back table. And I'm going to let you go by if you will, please, and make sure you get one of those And it's just something from the church family to let you know that we appreciate you, not only our fathers, but we have something for all of our men. So please make sure you stop by there and pick that up. Thank you again, young people. Appreciate you. Ministering to our hearts here this morning and challenging us. I want you to take your Bible, if you would, please, and go with me to Romans chapter number eight. Romans chapter number eight, and I'd like to read one verse in your hearing, and that is verse number 15. Romans chapter number eight. And verse number fifteen. Notice what the Bible says. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear. But ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father. The Lord helping me this morning, I want to preach on the Father of Fathers. The Father of Fathers. Let's bow and pray. Lord, again, we're grateful that we can come into your presence. And Father, we're grateful that we can call upon your name. And Lord, I pray that you would speak to our hearts from your precious word. We've come to the point in our service, Lord, where we do truly need to hear from heaven. And Lord, what these dear people need, I do not have to give. But I do make myself available and pray that, Lord, you'll give through me what it is that you'd have. And I pray that you would get the glory. Hide us behind the cross. Help us to lift up the Lord Jesus. Thank you, Father, for your word. And may the Spirit of God take it and make it real and personal. And Lord, for what you do, we'll praise you and thank you. Thank you again for what we've heard already. Thank you for speaking to our hearts. I pray you'll continue to work. In Jesus' matchless name, and God's people again said, Being a father is no small task. I was thinking as the young people were singing that plea guide me and lead me and show me the way. And any clear-headed, sane-thinking man would acknowledge that it feels at times like it's well nigh an impossibility. God has given the father a very special role in the family. We're not going to examine that this morning, but if you'll study your Bible, and I highly recommend that you get your places and your purposes out of the pages of the scripture, the Bible will tell you what God requires of you God has made the Father a provider and a protector and a leader in the home. Men, I want to say to you this morning that you're needed perhaps now more than ever. You're necessary, regardless of what our godless culture has to say about it. You are a necessity. It's strange to me that they spend all this money gathering all these statistics and then ignore them or contradict them as if they do not exist. Do you know where a father is present and involved in the life of his child, it makes a measurable difference? The statistics say that a child whose father is present and involved is 39 % more likely to earn mostly A's in school. They're forty-five percent less likely to repeat a grade, two times as likely to find stable employment. Listen to this, 75 % less likely to experience teen birth, and 80% less likely to spend time in jail. You know why? Because there was a father present and involved. Men, I I want to say to you again that you're needed. You're needed in your homes. And you know we're quickly becoming a generation and and a society where e the grandparents are even needed. And perhaps your role is more vital than it's ever been, as you exert an influence in the lives of your children, your children's children. That is so absolutely necessary. You're needed. Strange to me that our culture depicts dads as mindless idiots. And unnecessary attachments to a family. But that's not what the Bible says. And I want you to see that there is a father of fathers. There is one that, you know, we need to do away with the idea. Think with me for just a minute, by way of introduction, that a man can be a father without being really a good father. I heard this week about a man who fathered thirty children by eight different wives. Well, he was a father. I don't know that we would necessarily say that man was a good father. You can be a Christian father and not have a Christian home You can be saved and on your way to heaven, but not lead your family in the way that they ought to go. But I want you to understand this morning that we need to do away with the idea that there is a perfect Father on this earth. You know, in Hebrews chapter number 12, and I believe it's verse number nine, the Lord's talking there about chastisement, and he says that he talks about the fathers of our flesh. Who corrected us, you remember that text? And we gave them reverence. And he says, How much more should we not be subject to the Father, to the Father of spirits? And live. And when you look at the fathers of the flesh and the father of the spirits, you begin to understand that there's only one perfect father. And that is our God and our Heavenly Father. And I want to turn your attention to Him. I want you men to see especially. I want us all to see. There is a father of fathers. In fact, the psalmist said he's the father of the fatherless In my text, I see three things I'm going to magnify this morning, but I want to remind you that this term Abba Father's used in two other places. And I believe they're so important that we ought to see them together this morning. So would you go over to Mark chapter number fourteen? Mark chapter number fourteen. And the Lord Jesus is there in the Garden of Gethsemane. He's facing the darkest moment of his life on this earth as he prepares to go to the cross. And in Mark chapter 14, verse number 36, our Lord says this. And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible unto thee. Take away this cup from me, nevertheless, not what I will, but what thou wilt. We're going to come back to that in a few moments, but let's look at the other place in Galatians chapter number 4. Galatians chapter number four and verse number six And Paul writes these words, and because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts Crying Abba Father. And back in Romans chapter number eight, I want you to see some things here that I pray will encourage your heart. I want you to see first the spirit of adoption. And then I want you to see this cry that is made. And then we're going to look at the Father. But notice that spirit of adoption. The Bible says that ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption. You say, what does that mean? You'll notice here the word says that you've received, not that you earned. You don't earn the spirit of adoption. It's not that you worked for the spirit of adoption. It's not that you did something to obtain the spirit of adoption. The Bible says very clearly that you received it. You received the spirit of adoption. Sounds very similar, doesn't it, to John chapter 1, and I believe it's verse number 12. As many as received him. To them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. I think we often need to be reminded that salvation is not something I do, it's something God has done. Something He gives me. I receive it like you would receive a gift. In fact the Bible says that the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. You don't labor for gifts and you don't perform for gifts and you don't do things to obtain them. You just simply receive them. You take them freely. And Jesus said, freely I give. Freely you've received. Listen, the gift of this thing called salvation, the spirit of adoption, is something that you must receive. And I would say to you men who are listening, and there's no way to be what you need to be in your home apart from Christ. You need the Lord. And you can't make it without Him. And so receive the Spirit of Adoption. And then notice not only the reception that's pointed out here, but this thing of adoption. Ye have received the spirit of adoption. What does adoption mean? Well, at the very base of what adoption is, it's a choosing. It's a choosing. God chose you. I know that makes some Baptists nervous, but it's a Bible teaching. The Bible says you're chosen in Him before the foundation of the world. Salvation's no accident. You think about the choosing work of God. You know, Josiah, I don't know if you remember when you were little, I'm sure you do, but Sarah to torment you told you that the FedEx truck dropped you off. And I can still remember him coming in the house and his little lip quivering and his eyes full of tears. And he was very concerned that he was not ours, that delivery man had dropped him off and left him in the front yard. And it took weeks of reassurance. That uh no son, that isn't how it happened. Uh you're ours, I promise. And you know, when you think about this thing of being adopted , I read the story of a little boy who was being picked on at school because he was adopted. And he came home and just brokenhearted because the kids made fun of him, and kids can be cruel. They made fun of him because he was adopted and his dad wisely took him aside and said, son, you're actually very special. Because when you came into our family, it was not by your choice, but ours I brought you into my family. We brought you in. We went into the orphanage and we chose you and we picked you and we took you out and we made you our own. Those children that are are born, they you get what you get. And that seemed to encourage his little heart. But can I remind you that in the Word of God the Bible says I've been adopted? You've been chosen in him. Look, the the Lord Jesus and again I confess to you that I don't understand the depths of all of this. But I delight in the reality. Jesus said this in John chapter 15: You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you that you should go and bring forth fruit. Oh, what a wonder this thing of adoption is. Not only does it have to do with with his choosing, but you see this inheritance. Look in verse 17. The Bible says in Romans 8 17, and if children, then heirs. Heirs of God, look at this. Joint heirs with Christ. He's put you in a position to be an inheritor of all that he possesses. Thank God for the great wealth we have in Christ. And sometimes the devil wants you to think you don't have anything in the Lord. The truth is you have everything. You have everything that's important. Then not only do I want you to see this uh reception and this adoption, but I want you to see the transaction. Notice. Again in the text that ye have received the spirit of adoption. What does the old hymn say? And that transaction which so quickly was made? When at the cross I believed. See, this thing of coming into the family of God is not a process. It's not something that I come to in measure or steps. Salvation is an instantaneous work of God. And He saves you in a moment of time, just like that. And you don't understand all that took place, and I don't think we will on this side of eternity. But the truth is that it was an instantaneous work of God. God saved you in a moment of time. You think about the reality of being saved by God's grace. You you you you have a birth some of you have a birth certificate. I know maybe if you go back far enough they may you may not be able to find your birth certificate. But on your birth certificate, on birth certificates, I should say, there's a date and there's a specific time. There's a moment in time that you were born. And I'm telling you, my friend, that there's a moment in time that you are born again. There's a moment in time that you come into the family of God. So we see this transaction is an instantaneous transaction. And I want to just stop and say, Father, the greatest need in your life is to be born again. If you're not saved, you need to be saved. And if you are saved, you ought to thank God for his salvation. And realize that the greatest thing God ever did in your life or could do in three worlds is to save you from sin. May the Lord help us not to get over that. But we see this spirit of adoption. Then notice the cry. Look at this cry. Whereby we cry. I want you to notice first the means, because that's what that little word whereby means. It's saying because of this, because of the spirit of adoption, you now have access to God. You can come to the Lord. The Bible tells us in Ephesians 2. 18 that it is by the Lord Jesus we have access to God. It's through him we get in. I'm not talking about just getting in the family. That's the truth. But the reality is that I can get into his presence. That I can access God. Do you realize that the throne of God is barred to those that are not under the blood of the Lord Jesus? That it's barred. You say, well, uh what prayer does God hear from the sinner? Here's what prayer God hears from the sinner. God be merciful. The cry for salvation, that's the prayer he hears. His ear is stopped, his arm is is withdrawn. Listen, my friend, there's a block, if you will, that goes up, and only God can hear those that come through Christ. I read about a president. I can't remember which president it was, but he had a little boy, and it was his only child. And he gave orders to the staff in the White House that his son had unlimited access to him. He said he said no matter what it was or when it was or where it was, he comes in. He's not to be kept out. And I read somewhere that there was a meeting of very important people. And into that meeting, this little boy burst in the door. With all of his childish enthusiasm, having nothing important really to say, and nothing urgent to deal with, but he wanted to tell his daddy. And the president stopped. Stopped all of his business, stopped all of his his negotiating, stopped all of And we're talking about big things were going on. And he stopped all of that and bent down and said, Son, what is it you need? And listened with the most intense uh uh interest and and and and listening with with with just a a a broken you know just a heart that says, hey, I'm I'm interested in what you gotta say. And did so to the amazement of these powerful men who sat around the table and thought, What who is this child? I want to remind you of something. Whereby? Because of the spirit of adoption. The God in heaven who makes the sun rise and set, that's pretty big business. The God in heaven who controls all of the powers that be, whether they be powers in heaven or powers in hell or powers on earth. The God who commands the rain to fall and makes the stars to shine, listen, has an ear open to the pleas of his children. And no matter how infantile it may be, or how small it may seem, or how, you know, uh to us it may not be big or it may be big, but it matters not because we get instant access to To our Father who's up in heaven. You know why? Because of the Spirit of Adoption. Whereby? Whereby But then notice not only the means, but I want you to see the many. Now Paul could have said the word I he could have used the word I here, whereby I cry But he used the word we. You ever thought about why he did that? I believe the Spirit of God inspired every word of my Bible. We don't have an accidental book in our hands. We don't have just a creation of man. We have a gift from God, a miracle. And he said, we, whereby we cry. Can I say a word to you, men? You're not alone. The world wants you may be on your job. You may be the only Christian in your department. You may rub shoulders and be the only light in a place of great darkness. And here's why it's important that we assemble as the saints of God, because it's here that we're reminded we are not alone. Did you not see that great number of men who stood and look around you and realize that I'm not the only one That there are other Christians and there are other followers of the Lord Jesus, there are other fathers who are who are trying to do right. Now the devil's biggest lie is that you're all alone. That's what he told Elijah. And Elijah's a better man than all of us, really. And yet the reality is that he believed he was alone. He believed so much that he was alone that he went off in the wilderness and said, God just kill me. I'm no better than my father's. I'm done. And the Lord sort of sternly told him to stand up and listen to what I've got to say, because I have 7,000 who've not bowed the knee to Baal. And you need to be reminded that not every knee bows to the whims of the world. You, fathers, not every man's a godless follower of the filth of the flesh. You men need to understand that there are those that love the Lord Jesus and desire to live for Him. And thank God we, we can cry, whereby we cry. But notice the meaning of this word cry, whereby we cry. It means to cry aloud. As to me, from my understanding, the cry of anguish. Because Jesus did it in Mark 14, 36. We just read the text, and it said that he cried, Abba Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass. That was a dark, the Bible says his sweat became, as it were, great drops of blood. The intensity of what lie ahead. Remember, he's all-knowing. He's faith in the cross, knowing what full well the cross held. And as he's looking at the coming sufferings and the valley of the shadow of death that he had walked through, He's crying out in anguish to the Father. And can I say to you, listen, I'm I'm so grateful, I believe it was Kyle who in his part mentioned that a father is never so strong as when he's on his knees in prayer. There is a source of strength. And you know, it 's funny to you, it it is to me, it's funny to me that our culture depicts men so opposite of what the Bible does. The culture says, you know, it's not manly to pray. It's not manly to bow your knee. I'm telling you what, my friend, the most powerful men who've walked this earth bowed their knees before God who's up in heaven. The most powerful influence that's been exerted on generation after generation has been exerted through praying men who called on God and made a difference. You think about it. R. G. Lee told the story of a young man who died in his community. R. G. Lee pastored the Great Bellevue Baptist Church. They're in uh Memphis, I believe it was, Memphis, Tennessee. RG Lee said a young man lay dying and he called for his dad and he said, Dad, I want you to bury me at the front gate. This man was a wealthy businessman and had a beautiful mansion-like home. He said, Dad, I want you to bury me there. And his father said, Why, son? Why do you want me to bury you there? He said, So when you leave every morning You'll be reminded of a young man whom you never taught to pray, who's in hell right now. R. G. Lee said that happened. He said that father was a very powerful man. He was a wealthy businessman in Memphis, and and uh I don't know the business that he had, but he was he was so busy that he had no time to pray, and he often mocked those that did. But when his son came to die, he realized that he wasn't ready to die, and that he had never been taught anything about eternity. And I wished every father in this country could hear that. Because very sadly, here this morning, there are many fathers that have more interest in the things of time than they do in the things of eternity. They're teaching their children all the things of how to get on in this world. But my friend, you're not going to get on in this world forever. One day you're going to leave this world, and I'm going to leave this world. And there's only going to be one thing that really matters. Are you ready to meet the Lord? There's going to come a time, my friend, when all the trivial things of earth and time are going to mean absolutely nothing All the money in the world couldn't buy that man's soul. The truth of the matter is in death he departs from all of it. Every one of us die much in the same way with nothing. But my friend, the powerful, listen, what a power is exerted when we pray. Men cry to God, cry out to the Lord like Jesus did. Listen, on his knees battling in the Garden of Gethsemane with the weight of the world on his shoulders, was a man in deep anguish, but was a man among men. You will never convince me Jesus was sissy-like in his nature. His manhood was such that when the they went to to to find him when Judas betrayed him They said you're gonna have to identify him. Identify him how? Identify him with a kiss. Well who was he among? He was amu among a group of rugged fishermen who worked hard for a living And it tells me that he looked very similar to them, so much so that somebody had to point him out. The Lord Jesus was not in effeminate in his nature, he was a man Made in the likeness of men. And understand something that even he as a man, as as the greatest man who ever walked this earth God on his knees in the garden of Gethsemane and prayed to his father and prayed his way through that dark hour His prayer didn't end in the Garden of Gethsemane. He prayed again on the cross as he prayed, Father, forgive them. And then as he prayed again, into thy hands I commend my spirit. I'm just saying to you men, there's nothing greater that you can do than to pray and to seek the face of God and to cry. Listen, because you've been adopted, you now have access to God. Would you look at these last two words in the text, Abba, Father? I want you to notice first the title that is used here, which was customarily, and by the way, scripturally, it's always used in prayer. It's a term that's not thrown about just any old time. It's a term that is used when we pray. It's a term that that is used in accessing the Lord. You know, of all the things that Jesus could have taught us when he taught us how to pray, he could have said, Now say, our King, and that would have been true. He is our King. He could have taught us to say our Lord, our Master, our God. There's a multitude of names that could have been chosen, but he purposefully said, When you pray, say our Father. What a wonderful reminder that the relationship that a father can have with his father. You know, you think about Father's Day is not always a happy day for some folks. Because not all fathers leave good memories. But if you're saved, you have a good father. In fact, you have the greatest father that you can have. Friends, you've got a father that never falters or fails. And Jesus said, Our Father, pray our Father. So it's a title, a title that is used when we access God in prayer. But not only is it a title, but it's a term, it's an affectionate term. It's a term of great endearment. I've heard a lot of slain descriptions, and I almost tremble to use them or say them because I don't want to degrade our great God in any way. But it's a term of familiarity. Something I determined as a pastor. And I appreciate the respect that is given when somebody says, Pastor. But I've told my children I'm their father first, then their pastor. And our God in heaven, my friend, is our father. And he said, when you come to me, you come on those terms of great endearment. You don't come to me like a groveling servant, you come as a child. You've been adopted. Now again, it's a humbling thing because the reality is what he's done, he's done. And I don't deserve any of it, but thank God I delight in the reality that I've been washed in the precious blood, made a child of the king, and been invited by my Father, who's up in heaven, the God who hung the stars, the creator of all things, says, Come to me and talk to me. You're my child. Come as my fa and say my father. It's a term of endearment. And it's an emphasized endearment. Abba Father. Abba Father. Oh, I can still hear my granddaddy pray. And uh he he always prayed like this, our kind and gracious Heavenly Father. That was how he prayed. I never heard him start a prayer that he didn't pray that way. I can hear him praying at the dinner table, and he'd bow his head and he'd say, Oh, our kind and gracious Heavenly Father And he would bow his head and pray. We uh he was in a wheelchair for the last twenty years of his life, and we would go to visit him, and he would sometimes be in bed very early. And when you walk up on the porch, sometimes he would be starting his prayer. And at that stage of his life he was he couldn't hear well, so he talked real loud. And he lived there by himself, so it didn't matter who heard what he had to say. And I could still hear him standing outside that window, our kind and gracious Heavenly Father. Friend, listen, when you come to God, if you're saved, he's made a royal way directly to his throne. And it doesn't run through the head, friend, it runs through the heart. For with the heart man believes, and with the mouth confessions made. Listen, it's it's a heart work of God. And it's an endearing work of God. What a term here, Abba, Father. And then I see in this this this title, this name, Father, I see a teaching here. I see a teaching to our fathers today. There's one to whom you can turn. There's one upon whom you can depend. There's one you can trust. Fathers, maybe you feel like there's no one else you can share your load with, but I'm telling you there's a God in heaven who you can. There is a father of fathers. There is a Father upon whom you can rely. There's one that you can take your questions to. There's one that you can get your answers from. There's one that you can find strength in. Listen, here's what he's saying. The spirit of adoption whereby we cry, have a father. A saved person is drawn like a uh like a compass to the magnetic north pole. We're drawn to the Heavenly Father. It's interesting that New Testament Christians are always identified as praying people. When Saul was saved and Ananias was afraid and said, I'm not sure I've heard about this fellow. I don't want to mess with him. And the Lord said, Behold, he prayeth. And Ananias didn't argue, Ananias didn't question. He got up and went down there where he was in Damascus and did what God told him to do. Why? Because he knew you could trust a praying man. He was a praying man. The Bible tells us that Christians are those who call upon the Lord. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I don't believe there's a true Christian who's not a praying Christian. And we may not pray like we should, but thank God there's a drawing in our spirit that says call on him. There's a God who hears and answers prayer. He's your heavenly Father. The Bible is teaching us here, men, that there's one we can turn to. I'm glad there's one, there's a father who's who's the father of fathers. Now let me ask you a question, is he your father? Man or woman, it doesn't matter, young or old, that's that's irrelevant. Is he your father? Can you say with the clearness In fact, he goes on to tell us that in verse number sixteen, the Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. Here's divine communication. God says you're mine and you know you're mine. There's a witness bearing, a bearing of the Spirit of God with my spirit. And listen, my friend, you know, you know if you're saved. And it's not because you know it up here, you know it because the Spirit bears witness. It communicates in your spirit through the Word of God and confirms the reality that you're His, you're the heritage of the Lord, that you belong to Him. Are you his? Is he your father? Most important thing in the world. Most important thing in the world. I believe there was a governor in Tennessee. There was a governor in the state of Tennessee. He was eating in a restaurant and surrounded by all the publicity that these Elected officials sometimes have to deal with. And as he sat there, he saw a little boy come in. And you could tell that the little boy was not well cared for, and there was a group of other boys in that same restaurant, and they began to pick on this little fellow about who his father was, and the little fellow didn't know who his father was. And as that little boy stood there in shame, the governor heard these words. This was a saved man. And he got up and he went over to that little fellow and he said, Oh, son, I know who your father is. And the little boy looked up and his eyes got big. He said, You do. He said, Oh yes, I do. He said, He's a great man. He's a great father. In fact, he's a very wealthy father, and he's the best father. And those other little boys that have been picking on him just sort of fell off. And that little boy went outside with the governor and said, Who's my father? He said, Son, God is your father. And he shared the glorious gospel with him. Oh my friend, listen. If you're saved, you can say God's my father. Yes, he's my savior. He's my defender. He's my creator, he's my king, he's my Lord, but most precious of all, he's my Father. Dear brother and sister in the Lord, do you turn to him? Are you turning to him? Are you looking to him? Friend, the battle is too fierce and the load too heavy to go it alone. There's a father you can turn to. You may not win every battle, and you certainly may not achieve every goal But what a privilege it is to take all our griefs and cares and lay them at the holy feet of our Father. And say, Father. And we turn him to him. Can I urge you today to do so without delay? He's the Father of Fathers. Look again at the text. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear. But ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father. Would you stand with me, please? Oh Father, thank you for time in the Word