I want you to take your Bibles, please, and go with me to 2 Corinthians chapter number 1. 2 Corinthians chapter number 1. And I'm going to begin reading in verse number three, and we'll read down to verse number seven. And I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please, as we honor the reading of God's Word. 2 Corinthians chapter 1, verse number 3. The Bible says, Blessed be God. Even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort who comfort us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also aboundeth by Christ. And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation, which is effectual in the enduring of the same sufferings which we also suffer. Or whether we be comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation. And our hope of you is steadfast. Knowing that as ye are partakers of the sufferings, so shall ye be also of the consolation. The Lord helping me this morning, I want to preach on the comfort of the saints. The comfort of the saints. Let's pray together. Father, we come in Jesus' strong name. We're grateful, Lord, that we have such as one as thee to bow our heads before and cry out to for help. I thank you, Lord, that thou art God, and beside you there is no other. We give you glory this morning, for you're a great and mighty God. Your mercy is new every morning. Your grace is inexhaustible. And Lord, your word is absolutely true. I want to thank you, Lord, that when time shall be no more, your word will endure forever. And I pray this morning now as we read and study and hear your voice. That Lord we might heed what's said in your precious word, and help might be given, and above everything, the Lord Jesus May he be exalted. And Lord, I pray that you'd get all the glory and the honor. You know the deep need. I pray you'd meet the need of every heart. Save that soul nearest hell who's unawares, maybe even unconcerned. But Lord, arrest them on that road of rebellion and open their blind eyes and do the work that's needed. And Lord, we'll give you the glory. We look to you this morning. Help, Lord. And thank you ahead of time for the help you'll grant. For it's in Jesus' mighty name and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. I want you to notice this morning the emphasis in these verses on comfort. Again and again, the Bible talks about the comfort. He says verse in verse number three that he's the God of all comfort. In verse number four, how he comforts us. And again in verse number four, that we might be able to comfort them. And then he talks about the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. Now, I want you to notice that mercies precede comfort. And if you have tasted of the mercies of God in salvation, you can be sure of the comfort of God in consolation. These are exclusive comforts. There are some things God says to everybody, but then there are other things God says and he speaks directly to his people and his people alone. The comforts I'm preaching about this morning are not for those who have never trusted Jesus Christ. In fact, there's very little comfort for a sinner except this. Jesus saves. There's the comfort of everyone who's lost and without God. The only comfort I can offer you today is that there is a Savior who died on a cross Who shed his blood, who rose again the third day, and who gives eternal life to whosoever will. Now that's a comfort. If you're a hellbound sinner, you know that if there's if there's any hope, if there's any hope and it's in Jesus Christ, that's a comfort And so the comfort for the sinner is salvation. But the comforts for the saved are many. There are many comforts. And I want to highlight those this morning, the Lord helping me. Now the word comfort that's used here in this text. is the same word or the same root word that's used in John chapter 14 and 1516 when it talks about the Holy Spirit. And we're told that he said, I will give you another Comforter. A very similar word. It literally means someone who comes near to help. Someone who comes near to help. Now the Bible says there's someone who comes near to help when you need help. There is a comforter. He comes along and he draws near to his people. Now notice this, the word comfort means to console or to soulless and refresh. Where was I? We were somewhere and there was a lady had a had a cat with her in this public place. And I'm gonna try to be nice. The Lord's gonna have to help me real hard here But I I heard I heard overheard a conversation being had, and this this cat was her comfort cat. It it solaced her. Well, to each their own, I reckon. But there is a comfort for the people of God. In fact, there are many comforts we find in the Word of God. Let me, by way of introduction, just make a note about these comforts. Number one, they're sure. They're sure comforts. Verse number four says, Who comforteth us? in all our tribulation. There's sure comforts. Can I remind you, dear Christians, that the Lord keeps his word? And if he says there's comfort to be had, there's comfort to be had. He does he will come, that's sure. That's as sure as a in fact I started to say it's as sure as the rising sun, but it's more sure than the rising sun, because the day will come when the sun will not rise, but the comforts of God will still be sure. Who comforteth us? Not only are they sure, but notice the scope of them. The Bible says, Who comforteth us, verse four, in all our tribulation. All tribulation. You say, but preacher, when I get in this situation, will he comfort me? Well, that word all is a great big word. And it literally covers everything imaginable. He comfort us in all our tribulation. It doesn't matter what it is, you say, what about sickness? We'll comfort you in sickness. What about in death, he'll comfort you in death? What about in loss, he'll comfort you in loss? What about in struggle? He'll comfort you in struggle. What about in povert Poverty, he'll comfort you in prober poverty The fact is he comforts us in all of our tribulation. I'm glad the Bible often speaks with a broad or paints with a broad brush. And by the way, we do that sometimes, and we really can't say that. But when God does it, you rest assured he means it. If he says all, God literally means all. He said, I'll comfort you in all of your tribulation. And I like this. Verse number four, I see the spread of this comfort. He says that we, that we, that's we who are saved. That we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble. Oh, listen, God often takes you through things so that you can help somebody else who will go through the same thing. That's how it's spread, the comfort of God. And listen, I want you to think with me this morning about the comfort of the saints. What comfort do we have here this morning. I'll be honest with you, I've watched a little bit of Muse as as of late, and I've not got one lick of comfort out of it. Not one bit. I've got many, many reasons to be concerned. I I've got multiplied reasons even to be a wee bit alarmed But I've I've not found any comfort. Now I look at the way we're going as a nation. I look at Christianity and the way it seems to be going. And I don't get any comfort in all that. In fact, I don't see any comfort, and oftentimes I look in my old depraved heart and I say, you know what, there's not a lick of comfort in there either. But I'm glad when I open my Bible I start to see the comforts of the saints. There's some things that ought to encourage you this morning, some things that ought to soothe your troubled heart, some things that that that ought to be an encouragement to to your heart and say, hey, th there's a reason to to praise the Lord. There's a reason to go on. There's a reason to stay faithful, there's a reason to look up, because there are some comforts that are exclusively for me as a child of God. Would you note these pleas? Number one, there's the comfort of the sovereign. The comfort of the sovereign. You'll notice in verse number three, God is called the God of all comfort. He's the God of all comfort. Now, I understand that literally means that he's the source. He's the reservoir. He's the supply. He's the God of all comfort. You know, today if you're looking for comfort, you're not going to find it except you look to the Lord. Just as we were reminded in song this morning, look to the Lamb of God. You can look, and people sadly do. Today they're looking for recreation and they think They think if I can just uh change atmosphere or change activity or something like that, I'll find comfort. But you know what? You'll not find comfort there. You'll find distraction. Or you might find entertainment, but you won't find comfort. Many people turn to the bottle or they turn to some peel and they say, I'm going to get comfort in that. It's going to comfort me. And they only find that it brings its own set of misery. I'm saying this morning that there is a source of comfort that has no strings attached, no barbs in the hook. It's the comfort of God. God is the God of all comfort. Not only is he the source, but he's the supplier. He is the one who doles it out. He's the one who distributes that comfort. Oftentimes we go looking in all the wrong places for comfort, but I'm telling you, if you go to him, you'll find comfort You'll go to him. He's the supplier and then he's the superintendent. Meaning that he oversees all of it and he he's the one who's in charge. And by the way, God knows where you are and who you are and all there is to know about you. Josiah brought a message Friday night there and he he preached about the God who knows. Do you know him? The God who knows. Well, I'll tell you, it's an awful comforting thing at times, but a convicting thing to know that God knows. He knows my thoughts afar off. That means he knows what I'm going to think before I think it. He knows now now some of you men know something kind of what that's like, because if you're married, you you know that your wife sometimes thinks she knows what you're thinking. And rest assured she probably does. More than likely she does. We're pretty easy to figure out. But the reality is, before you ever have a thought, God in heaven already has it registered That's the knowledge he has. He's a God who knows. And listen, God knows. God knows right where you are this morning. He knows right what you say, but nobody knows. Well nobody needs to know necessarily, but there's a God who does know. God knows. It's amazing to me that God knows every little sparrow that falls Every little sparrow. The heavens are full of birds, and yet not one falls to the ground that he's not there attending the funeral of that little sparrow. Now that's a God who knows And do you think he knows any less about you and me for whom he sent his son to die on the cross and uh for you and me for whom Jesus shed his blood and the very best of heaven was given for? Oh, uh please rest assured, he knows. He remembers our frame that we're but dust. He knows what you're made of. He knows he knows what lies ahead. He knows what he's got ordained and planned for your life and mine's not an accident. There's a God in heaven who rules in the affairs of men. And God knows all of that. And He is the God of all comfort. You know, when I think about my God and being rightly related to Him through the person of the Lord Jesus Christ, it brings me a great deal of comfort. If I wasn't saved and living in this country, I'd probably be on the verge of a nervous breakdown. For fear of things to come. For fear of the oh you say, preacher, it's not that bad. Well we need to get our head out of the sand and realize it's worse than we think. And it's far worse than we know. But God. My pastor used to say these words. He said, My sanity rests on his sovereignty. Well, that's a powerful truth. The reality that my God knows. He knows what tomorrow holds, and he knows all of the tomorrow's for you and me. And although we live in an uncertain age and we live in uncertain in really all of uncertainty as far as ourselves are concerned, I'm glad everything is settled and secured with the God we serve. God knows. He's a God of all comfort. And my sovereign, and you're sovereign, you're saved by the grace of God. You can say the sovereign brings me, my master, my God in heaven, it brings me great comfort to know Everything happened and it's not an accident. You say, you look around, you say, man, I can't believe that happened, or how could that be? But listen, know this. There's a God who's still got his hand on the control. He hasn't resigned. He hasn't stepped down. He don't even have the sniffles this morning. He's God, the very God. And everything marches to his command. I'm encouraged. Sometimes I get a little anxious. I go somewhere different and I hear somebody preach and they say, Turn to the book of Job, and I think, oh no. Lord, I I I love the book of Job and it's helped me, but what are you getting me ready for? And I sh I tremble a little bit on the inside when somebody says, Let's go to Job. But you know what you learn in Job? You learn in Job that even the devil's got to get permission to get to God's children. He's got to get permission. He must ask before he touches. In fact, he couldn't do anything except the limitation that he was allowed by the Lord. And the Lord gave him clear instruction. If you let me say it like this, even the devil is on the Lord's leash. That's what the Bible teaches. And so you and I are not out here living just hoping to escape uh the snares and wiles of the devil and just just somehow randomly making it through every day. Oh, no, no, no. You've got a God in heaven who's on the throne, who's still God, who's in charge, who's the God of all comfort. Number two, I want you to notice not only does the sovereign bring me comfort, but something significant that is spoken about his nature. You'll notice in verse 3, he's called the Father of Mercies. The Father of Mercies And when you stop and think about who he is here, his person, this particular thing of mercy, and the fact that it's plural. It ought to bring a whole lot of comfort to you. He's the Father of mercies. You say, preacher, what's my greatest need? Someone might say Well, preacher, I'm in a situation that I need provision. I need some sort of financial help. That's my greatest need. You might be sitting here saying, oh, preacher, I'm sick in body and and it's breaking down and and what I need is I need health. I need God to touch my body. You may be sitting here saying, I don't know what to do. I need direction. I need wisdom. We learned this morning, if any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God. who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not. But no, no, preacher, my my need, I I I really just need God to work a miracle. No, let me say to you that the greatest need every person under the sound of my voice has at this very moment is mercy. We need mercy. Because listen to me this morning, God is holy. And we're sinful. And the only thing that stands between me and the wrath of God is mercy. And the mercy found in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ exclusively And my Bible says he's the father of mercies. He's the father of mercies. I'm glad the Baptist Church is not the father of mercies because there wouldn't be a whole lot of it to get. And I'm glad dead religion is not the father of mercies, because you couldn't find it in every place. But he, God in heaven, is the father of mercies. And there's mercy to be had. You know something you say, but preacher, I'm sick. You need God's mercy. But I I have a need. Well, you need God's mercy. Whatever it may be, there's mercies available. He's the Father of all mercies. And I'll tell you, I'm glad when God revealed Himself to us. He didn't say, I'm the God of wrath, though he is a God of wrath. When he revealed himself to his people , You know, when you're when you're one of his, when you're one of his children, he communicates differently with you because you're his. Here he is. You think about your children. You you speak in affectionate terms and you can speak with with an intimacy with your children because they're your children. But someone else who's a stranger can't speak in that fashion because it's not theirs. The child's not theirs. But know this: if you're his, he speaks to you as the Father of mercy. Now listen, he's going to reveal himself one day to this lost, rebellious world as the king and the judge and the God of wrath. And when he comes, he's going to cut down his enemies. That's clear in the Word of God. He's going to wield that sharp two-edged sword, which is the word that he speaks. And he's going to annihilate his enemy and bring him down. But listen, my friend, if you're saved by the grace of God, you don't face a wrathful judge. You face a merciful father. You come to the God who's the Father of all mercies, who deals with you in terms of mercy. Be good for us to get a hold of that characteristic, because there's a whole lot of Christians who don't have a whole lot of mercy in their heart. They got a lot of judgment, and they got a lot of condemnation, they got a lot of criticism, but they don't have much mercy. God help us to see that our Father is a father of mercies. I believe the most beautiful portrait painted of God in the Bible is of the prodigal fathers, the son, the prodigal son's father. Boy, when that prodigal son came home. He faced a father, first who loved him. That father loved him. He's looking for him. He's out on the horizon. He's looking for his return. He's longing for that man, that young man to come home and get right. He's looking and he's longing And then he leaps in his direction and he runs and he falls on his neck and he begins to kiss him and welcome him back. And that young man had a whole lot to say before he got there. He had nothing to say once he did. He didn't need to say anything. The Father said everything significant as he showered him with mercy. Oh, he did wrong. He left. He he he he squandered his his inheritance. Yes, he he did tons of wrong. He did lots of things that he ought not have done. But the reality is he came home. And he came home to the Father, and when he came home to the Father, the Father said, Put a robe on him and worship him, put shoes on his feet and a ring on his finger and killed the fatted calf. My son that's dead is now alive. And he rejoiced in the mercy. That's what mercy does. Mercy welcomes you back home. Every saint ought to just stop in their tracks, say, God thank you, you're the Father of mercy. If you don't sense your need for mercy, you better make sure you got God's righteousness and not your own self-righteousness. Because the self-righteous don't see their need for mercy. The self-righteous see, well, I'm pretty good They're sort of like that man who said, I'm not like this publican. I I I do I do all the things according to the law and tithe and fast and etc. and you'd make your list. You don't have to be in biblical setting to have a list. Everybody's got their list. And you can say, well I don't do that and I don't say that and I don't go there and I don't and be careful about all that stuff because the reality is you can quickly revert into your heart. to having self-righteousness rather than saying, I may I look, if God gave me what I deserved right now, I'd already be moaning in the pits of hell But God in Jesus Christ has extended to me mercy, saved me by his marvelous grace. I don't deserve a thing, but he's done it all because he's the Father of mercies. Oh, church, may God help us to see what comfort there is in this significant trait that He's the Father of mercies. Quickly, number three, I want you to see the comfort in the Savior. The comfort and the Savior. Because in verse number three he says, Blessed be God, even the Father, of our Lord Jesus Christ. And then quickly jump down to verse 5. For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, watch this now, so our consolation also aboundeth by Christ. The Lord Jesus is the reason I've got comfort this morning. He's the reason When you stop and ask the question, why should I be comforted? Why should I have any reason to hope that there's any comfort for me? Well, I'm going to tell you there's one. Just one. And his name's Jesus Christ. It ought to comfort your heart to know That he's the expression of God's love. He's the extension of God's mercy. He's the explanation of God's salvation. It's in him, it's by him, it's in him we live and move and have our being. It's by him that listen, when you stand at a fresh dug grave and you look at that cold, empty spot, and you say, Do I have any reason to be comforted? Death seems so final, and death seems to be such an end of all things. Voices are silenced. Memories are stopped. Those opportunities to ex - all that's done. It's all gone. But know this: if that dear person knew Christ and you know the Lord Jesus Christ, that's not an end Oh no, it's a pause. It's a disconnect for a period of time. But get this, one day the Lord's going to put it all right back together. The dead in Christ are going to rise, we which are alive remain shall be caught up together to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. That's reality. Not only is Jesus our reason for hope or comfort, but he's our reality. He's our reality. We had a couple of hecklers there on Friday. One one lady she She wanted to make sure everybody knew she didn't agree with what was said, so if you made an emphatic statement about the Lord Jesus, she'd shout no. And then the man, I believe the man was demon-possessed, but he was he was just evil and he didn't like hardly anything being said, especially about Jesus and especially about the blood. But you know something? People will say things like, oh, that religion, that's for the down and outer. That Jesus stuff is it 's for the people that need a psychological crutch. It's for the people that need a little something that life can't afford. Can I tell you something? It's reality. It's reality. It's a reality because I'm telling you, he will walk through you in the deepest, darkest of valleys. He'll prove himself real and strong. Never heard of a person saying, Oh, I'm glad I know Buddha when it come time to die. Oh, I'm glad I'm glad I know I I'm glad I know Muhammad when it come time to die. But I have stood and been near a multitude of people who said, I'm glad I know Jesus, and I'm glad Jesus is walking right beside me every step of the way. I'm telling you, he's real, it's a reality. And the only reason you don't know it to be a reality is because you've rejected Jesus Christ, the Son of God. What a reality it is, the Savior. There's comfort in Christ. Can you not, can I not look at the cross and find comfort? And know that all my sin, all my sin, not part, not part, but the whole The hole is nailed to the cross, and I bear it no more. Every bit of it was nailed there. Whether I can reason that out or not doesn't matter. The reality is he put my sin on his son and Jesus paid it all. Jesus paid it all. It's all to him I owe. Listen, my friend, what sin did to me, the Lord Jesus is undoing and has undone. And one day, hallelujah, he's going to fix it completely and eternally. Can I give you a little secret? Some of you dear saints are over getting saved and you need to get back. Well I've been I've been saved any year. I it's so if I'm I'm one f listen to me. The salvation God's provided is not just for time, but for all of eternity. The reality is, is yes, you are going to heaven, and that's a bigger deal than going anywhere on this earth. There might be a lot of great things to see on this old planet, but I'm here to tell you the greatest thing you'll ever see is heaven itself, and you're only going to see it because of Jesus What a reality. And listen, what a reminder that Christ died for our sin. And he was buried and he rose again the third day. I have no hope outside of the Lord Jesus You know, I've told you this, the devil tormented me for many years over the inability to remember what I prayed. I heard a statement, a foolish statement, made by a well-meaning evangelist who said, if you cannot remember what you prayed, then you're lost. And and I struggled with that because I couldn't remember. I could not remember. I tried. I honestly tried. I begged God to bring it to my memory. I asked him to put it back in my head, you know, and help me, and it never came I could not remember the words I spoke or the way that I I couldn't remember what it was I said. But oh happy day when I realized it wasn't my little prayer that saved me. It was the person of Jesus Christ. And listen, when it comes time to make the crossing, it won't be, boy, I'm glad I prayed the sinner's prayer. It'll be I'm glad I know the person of Jesus Christ, who's a friend, who sticks closer. Listen, I am grateful that my hope's in him. He's the reality. He's the reality. So the Savior brings me comfort. Let me quickly move on here. Number four, I want you to notice the saints. The saints are a comfort. You see in verse 4 he says, Who comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them, which are in any trouble. By the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. Isn't it amazing, really, that God has means? And his means are often his people. God uses his people to convey comfort. God uses his people. And you say, what do you mean by comfort? I mean simply he brings those individuals along to be a help. To be a help. I was just thinking, one of well fact the man who was first deacon I ever served with went to heaven on Friday. And I was thinking about him, and he and I visited this old preacher. And that old preacher was a great comfort to me as a young preacher. And I remember clearly the words he said, the things he said, he was a means of comfort. He didn't know he was comfort, but he was a means of comfort. That dear brother who's in heaven now, he was a means of great comfort. He was a means of great comfort. We were having a little trouble. The church split six months after taking it. The church split. I mean split right in two. And you know Baptists don't do things halfway. Man, if they tear something up, they tear it wide open And boy, it was a mess. And I remember Rodney, old dear brother Rodney. We were in the sanctuary there, we're getting ready to pray. And he said, now, preacher, don't worry about it. He said , God's people, he said some of them are just crazy. And and he just spoke in such plain. He said, Don't you worry. He said, God will bring it God'll take care of this thing. Just let him look after it. He said it's his church, it ain't yours, it'll be here long after you're dead and gone. Boy, he was just a great comfort. And I'm telling you, my friend, it is the privilege of God's people to have a ministry of comforting the saints. And you know what happens? God comes along and comforts you, so you can comfort somebody else. I was thinking of this these hymn books, this hymn book we carry and sing from. Do you know what tragedy is behind that book? I mean, if if we were to take this hymn book and had the ability to know the story behind every song. You talk about sadness, sorrow, suffering, loss. Who's not been comforted by that great song, It Is Well With My Soul? It may be a mess in my life, but it's well with my soul. And you've stood and you've sung it, It's Well with My Soul. Oh, listen. What a comfort it is when we began to think about these great hymns. And yet that hymn didn't come from a comfortable setting. A neat desk and a new pen, and a gifted poet came from a brokenhearted man. Who lost family. And who realized that although his family was already in heaven, he could say, It's still well with my soul. It's well with my soul. You know what he did? He comforted saints for ages. He's dead but still speaking. Because it's well. I'm talking about the comfort of the saints. Thank God for his people. When God's people get comfort, you know what it's for? So you can pass it on. You can pass it on. And can I just be practical here for a moment? Be careful about saying, oh, I know how you feel. Because you probably really don't. Now you may know something similar. But I'll tell you what you can say. You can say, look, I'm I've been there and God was faithful. And can I tell you how he helped me? Because how he helped you might help them. How he came along and said, Hey, I want to help you this and and the Lord helped you. And sometimes Billy Kelly used to say, God will take you through a knothole backwards. Because he might pull somebody else through a knothole backwards, and you need to be on the other side saying, It's going to be okay. I just come through there too. God may do that. He often does that. Your New Testament. In fact, not just your New Testament, but your Bible. Is a great reservoir of comfort. You know why? Because somebody needed it. Somebody needed it. When Paul wrote concerning what the Lord did as the ship began to sink on his way to Rome. Isn't it a comfort to you to know that the Lord stood by him? That night he said, the Lord stood by me. He said, Be of good cheer, for I believe God. It's a comfort to know that when the ship may be sinking, there's a Savior who won't let the thing go down. Every soul made it safe to shore. Now some had to swim and some had a little broken piece of the boat, some got there in little rougher means, but they all got there nonetheless. There's comfort in that. There's the comfort of the saints Let me give you one more. I got a whole bunch, but it's 12 o'clock. And if you're half as hungry as me, you're ready to go. My two-hour feeding schedule is coming up round the bend here. So I want you to notice number five the comfort of scriptures. Look at the comfort of Scriptures. Verse 7, and our hope of you, he's talking about these Corinthians, our hope of you is steadfast. Look at this next word. It's a big word: knowing. Knowing that as ye are partakers of the sufferings, so shall ye be also of the consolation. How'd he know that? How could he be so sure? How could he speak with such certainty? You know why? Because the scriptures He was sure of this because of the promises. What promises? We know all things work together for good. We know that. How do we know that? We know it because it says it right here. We know Hebrews 13, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. So that we may boldly say the Lord's my helper. We know that. We know the promise of Psalm 23:1: The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. How do we know these things? What is it that gives us such sureness and such confidence? Well, it's the scriptures. It's the Bible. And whether it's the assurance of salvation or direction or understanding or what lies ahead, listen, my friend, if you want to know what's going to happen in the future, read your Bible. Read your Bible. It bothers me that these fortune tellers, which some of it's a sham, most of it's a sham. Some of it's just Consulting spirits that not the Holy Spirit, but there's some satanic stuff behind it, no doubt. That has gained such a popularity. I mean they're they're they're Christians. That follow astrology. Give your head a shake. Why follow the stars when you can talk to the God who made them, named them, and orders them? You don't need the stars to align. You need to yield yourself to the Lord. And listen, friend, there are so many things that we put confidence in when you carry in your hand. The revealed truth of heaven. God's holy word. Friend, you can be sure. Well what's gonna happen? What's gonna happen when I leave this world? Well if you're saved, here's what's gonna happen. Absent from the body, present with the Lord. Just like that. Now you say, but I need more detail. Well, if you needed more, he'd give it to you. All he said, this is this is what he said. He said, absent present, absent present. Check out here, check in there. Isn't that a wonderful thing? I I I I find uh for some odd reason as I get older I get apprehensive about not knowing how the process of something is. Or you know, I I I want to know exactly how. If you check in somewhere, you do something, I want to know how all that that Uh and it bothers me a little bit if I don't know. I guess, I don't know, maybe you don't want to look foolish or whatever, but uh you you you want to know and sometimes you just you don't get the details till you get there. And then once you get there, a lot of times the details aren't as bad as you thought they would be, because you're anticipating what's it gonna be like We had the opportunity to go in these caverns, and we've talked about going for 20. How old are you, boy? Two? Twenty-two years. Every time we drive by , he'd see the caverns, the you know up on the mountains there, forget where it's at in Virginia. Yeah, there you go. And he said, I want to go there. I want to go there. And I'd always say, well, we don't have time on this trip, but we'll do it another trip. If we don't have time this time, we're going to do it one time. And I figured, well, I better not be a liar, so I better keep my word. This may be my last opportunity. So we did. And I'll be honest with you. I I looked online, tried to figure out what what that was. I thought, man, are they going to put me in an elevator and drop me thousands of feet down the ground? And you know, I'm gonna have a panic attack down there and all that darkness, or how's that gonna be? I wanted the details, and you know what? I couldn't find a lot of details, and that bothered me I don't like to be surprised by much near of anything. And yet when we got there, I thought, man, I bet we'll have to walk ten miles and You know, I'll come out of there crippled. I can't make it all the way through. Man, what a horrible thing. You know. I hope you're laughing because you can sympathize. I hope. But then once you get there and it's not near as bad as you thought. I mean you walk off the street level right into it. Well, how convenient's that? And there's lighting, and that's even better. It's not dark in there. And it was, it was, it was, it was amazing, really. And it reminded me, if God took such pains to make something underground beautiful, what in the world's heaven going to be like? I mean look he he said I go to prepare a place my what kind of place is heaven gonna be? But oftentimes we get hung up about the details, we get disturbed about all of the particulars, and yet God says, just trust me, absent Present. Absent present. When you leave here, you open your eyes there. I'm just saying, my dear friend, there is comfort in the scripture. How can I be sure of that? Not because I've ever experienced it, not because I've been there and come back. Simply because God said in his precious word, and I like what Paul said in Romans, he said in being fully persuaded, this is Romans 4. 21. that what he had promised he was able also to perform. I'm gonna tell you something. If God said he'll do it, he'll do it. It would be a good thing for our country. Let me just say, it would be a good thing for you and me if what we say we will do, we do. Promises are awful cheap anymore. But God has never said one thing he doesn't intend to do, and not only intend, he will. He will do. Made some promises to us. No wonder Peter said they're exceeding great and precious. Exceeding great and precious. See, Romans 15:4 says that it's through the comfort of Scriptures That we have hope. It's the comfort of scriptures. You say, preacher, how how in the world can we have hope today? Well, we've got the comfort of scriptures. We've got the encouragement, hey, that er that God's true. Let God be true in every man a liar. These so-called intellectuals that think they somehow can masterfully destroy The word of God are fools in the eyes of God. And they're liars because they're going about trying to undo what God has declared. And you might as well lasso the sun and pull it out of the heavens, or somehow another explode the moon and cause it to cease to give forth light. Because, listen, God's word will stand Whenever infidel and ever intellectual elite who tries to destroy it will be burning in the lake of fire. God's word will stand throughout all ages because it's God's word. And it'll do, God'll do just everything He said he's gonna do. That ought to comfort your heart. That ought to comfort your heart. Don't believe the devil's lie that, you know, here's what we do. We put question marks where God's put periods. You know who did that? Lucifer. Yea, hath God said. That's all he did. He erased the He erased the period and he put a great big question mark. And I've got news for you, my friend. The devil's the only one doing that, and he's the only one in the business of doing that. If God said it, he will do it. His promises are sure. Oh Christian. The path to heaven's not an easy one. If you think it is, you've got an education coming. Well, I'm saved, and I heard that guy on television say: if you get saved, you'll be wealthy and you'll be healthy, and everything will be wonderful. He's a liar. You may get saved and and deal with sickness the rest of your life. You may get s listen, you may get saved and have to know what it is to live in abject poverty. You may get saved, lose every friend you got, and perhaps even family, and you'd be the only one. I mean that can happen. That does happen. I'm telling you, there's no easy path to glory, but I'm glad there's comforts for us. You and I won't travel first class, but we travel with first class comforts. Because they come from the Lord. You can count on that. Church, I just want to remind you, you got some comforts. Hold to them. Lean on them. Sometimes you've got to lean a little harder. Sometimes you need to just lean into them real good and say, Lord, I sure need that comfort. God is able to comfort you In all your tribulation. Whatever it is. Nobody else may know, but he does And you know what I'd I'd advise you to do? I'd get just as close to him as I could get. I'd just I'd crawl up just as near to the Lord as I could get, and I'd say, now Lord, I I need that comfort you promised, and just look out. Just look out. I was thinking of my dear mother when she went to heaven. One of the things I miss the most is just her comfort. She was a master at that. Uh my wife says she petted me. Well So be it. I miss it. And what and I'll tell you she could comfort you. Your whole world would be falling apart. You go talk to her and she'd be everything's okay. And and when you left, you thought, you know what, everything is okay. I miss that comfort. But I'm glad greater than that. There's things she couldn't fix, there are things she couldn't do. But I'm glad there's a God in heaven who is the God of all comfort. I can run to Him and say, Lord, I I really need some comfort right now. And you know what He is? He's faithful. He's faithful. Now, friend, if you're listening to me and you're not saved, I can't offer you that comfort except you come to Jesus Christ and be born again. Unless you get saved, my friend, there's no comfort. In fact, there's nothing, and it pains me to say it, but I've got to say it. There's nothing to anticipate but a dismal death and separation from God for all of eternity. That's all that waits you. Turn to Jesus Christ. I'm not asking you to join this church and join this church and go to hell. You can be baptized and die and end up in hell. I'm asking you, my friend, to receive the Lord Jesus as your Savior and understand that he died for your sin and he paid the sin death. He was buried and rose again. Know that all that was done 2,000 years ago was done just for you. Trust him. Only trust him, the old hymn says. Trust him now. He will save you. He will save you. Oh dear friend, listen. If you're not saved, you need to be. Time's running out. Time's running out. Don't play religion. Don't matter what church you belong to or a part of or your pedigree or your heritage or all the things you do or don't do. Don't trust in one lick of self-righteousness. Trust in the Lord. Trust in the Lord and be saved. And listen, if you're saved and you're going through something or things and you need comfort, you're not going to get it turning your back on God. You're not going to get it by saying, well look, I tried that and it didn't work. Lay that Bible on the shelf. You're not going to get it by getting cold-hearted and letting a whole bunch of distance get between you and the Lord. You're not going to get comfort. You know where you're going to get it? You're going to get it when you get back to God. And get close to God and say, Now Lord, I need you. I need you more and I need air in my lungs. I need you more and I need my next heartbeat. I need you, Lord. There's comfort to be had if you're a Christian. May the Lord help us to find it this morning. In him. Let's stand together. Father.