You take your Bibles, please, and go with me to the Book of Revelation. Revelation four. And I'm going to read two chapters in your hearing, Revelation 4 and Revelation 5. They're very short chapters here, one 11 verses and the other 14 verses. I'm going to let you remain seated for we're going to read such a lengthy passage out of the Bible, but Revelation chapter number 4 And the Bible makes some things very clear here. I appreciate the emphasis put on heaven in our singing, because that's what we're going to look at this evening. We're going to look at the church in heaven. The church in heaven. You know, a lot of times we get so caught up in the problems of the church on earth. That we forget that one day the church is going to be perfect in heaven. And uh I'll tell you something, the church is going to be like she's never been before when we see her in heaven. She's going to be in her perfect state. She's going to be in a perfect place. And we're going to be in a perfect go with our perfect God for all of eternity. As we See what the Lord has done for us in dying for our sin, making a way for you and I. In Revelation chapter 4 and verse number 1, the Bible reads this way: After this I looked. And behold, the door was opened in heaven. And the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking with me, which said, Come up hither, and I will show thee things which must be hereafter. And immediately I was in the Spirit, and behold a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne, and he that sat was to look upon like a jasper and a sardine stone. There was a rainbow round about the throne in sight like unto an emerald. Round about the throne were four and twenty seats. And upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white raiment, and they had on their heads crowns of gold. And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings and voices. There were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven spirits of God. And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal. And in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne, were four beasts full of eyes, before and behind. And the first beast was like a lion, the second beast like a calf, and the third beast had a face as a man, and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle. And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him, and they were full of eyes within. They rest not day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy. Lord God Almighty, which was and is and is to come. Now that's heaven's anthem. That's heaven's anthem. When those beasts give glory and honor and thanks to him that sat on the throne, who liveth forever and ever, the four-and-twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne and worship him that liveth forever and ever. And cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. And I saw in the right hand to him that sat on the throne a book written within and on the backside sealed with seven seals. And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, who is worthy to open the book, to loose the seals thereof? And no man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to look thereon. And I wept much, because no man was found worthy to open to read the book, neither to look thereon. And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not. Behold the line of the tribe of Judah. The root of David has prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seals thereof. And I beheld, and lo in the midst of the throne, and of the four beasts, in the midst of the elders, stood a lamb as it had been slain. having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent forth into all the earth. And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and the four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of saints. And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. And has made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne, the beasts and the elders. And the number of them was 10,000 times 10,000 and thousands of thousands. Not being disrespectful, but I'm just going to tell you, you say, what's the number of that? A whole bunch. That's just innumerable. That's what he's saying. Verse 12, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. And every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth, such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, heard I say, Blessing. and honor, and glory, and power, be unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb forever and ever. And the four beasts said, Amen And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth forever and ever. What I've just read to you is a scene that will take place in the somewhere, I don't think too distant future. It's something that's going to unfold, and if you're redeemed and saved by the grace of God, you will be in this company of what I just described. We think about the church in heaven. I want you to see here with me some things. We'll pray and then study together. And may the Lord help us to be encouraged as we think about what lies ahead for the Church of the Living God. Our Father, we thank you again for the privilege that we have to pray. We thank you, Lord, for the opportunity again to gather, open our Bibles. Lord, humble our hearts and hear your voice. We pray, Lord, you might speak and that you would work and that you would help. Lord, do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. Would you please Draw near to each one. Father, if there be one under the sound of my voice, unsaved, unprepared for what's about to happen, I pray the Spirit of God would find them out, convict them deeply And Lord, save them wonderfully. And we'll give you all the glory. Father, would you strengthen your people? Help us to see what lies just ahead. And Lord, we'll praise you for all that you do, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. It's interesting to me that between Revelation chapter 3 and chapter 4, there's a wonderful transformation. In the first three verses or excuse me, chapters of the book of Revelation, we have the church on earth. And one of the things you learn about the church on earth is that she has problems. Nearly every church was identified as having some sin or some problem that needed to be addressed. The Lord addressed those. And as he addressed those, he revealed the reality that the church of the living God, as long as she is on the earth, is going to be a flawed body. I said this morning, if you're looking for a perfect church, you won't find one, and if you do find one, please don't join it. But the reality is, is you won't find one because all of, listen, do you know if you wouldn't have a New Testament really if some churches didn't have problems. The bulk of the letters were written to address problems in the local churches. You read them, it'll tell you very clearly. So there's going to come a day, though, when the church no longer be on this earth I'm talking about, and again, the majority of the time that the church is addressed in the Bible, it is in terms of a local assembly. A recognizable, visible body of believers in a local place. But when we move to heaven, we see a whole different view. The church is no longer divided in the sense of locality and divided in the sense of various doctrines or denominations, if you will, but the church is assembled as one body. And I want you to see the church in heaven here in three ways. Number one, I want you to see the church gathered around an occupied throne. They're gathered. The church gathers around an occupied throne. The Bible tells us that he heard the voice, as it were, of a trumpet talking with me. Now I believe very firmly that that is describing the rapture of the church. And he he makes it, I think, even more clear when he says, Come up hither, and I will show thee things which must be hereafter. There is going to come a point in time. And I don't believe we know the day nor hour. We're told that very clearly, but there's going to come a point in time when the Lord's going to say, Come up hither, and all who are saved are going to go up. The Bible tells us those that are dead in Christ are going to rise first, and then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Now folks, it's going to come. The Bible tells us this. Our Lord is going to come. And as he comes, he's going to take the church home. He's going to take all who are saved by the grace of God to be with him forever. And then you see immediately, he says, in verse 2, I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne was set in heaven. Won't you notice this throne? And one sat on the throne. Not two or three or four, but one. Now, John's going to begin to describe something that I'm going to be quite honest with you. We're traveling in waters that'll drown us. I'm not going to be foolish and stand here and tell you I understand everything I'm going to preach. Nor am I going to tell you that I understand everything I've read. But I am going to tell you everything that's there is true, whether I understand it fully or not. And what John saw, you and I are going to see in our hearts, we're going to understand like we've never understood, because we're going to be there with the Lord. But he did see a throne. And on that throne, I want you to notice, he describes, he gives a description of the one who's seated there. And here's how he describes him, just very unique. He describes him first as a jasper. He says, to look upon like a jasper and sardine stone. And then he talks about the rainbow round about the throne, likened unto an emerald. Now I'm told that a Jasper stone is uh noted for its various colors. That that it can bear different colors and and and uh depending on the light in which you look at it in It reflects a different color. And you say, well, what does that represent? I believe that it represents the various perfections of the Lord Himself. It's revealing the various aspects. Our God is omniscient. Our God is omnipresent. Our God is omnipotent. He's loving, merciful, kind, good, just, holy. He's all of those things in so much more, and everything that he is, God's perfectly that thing. You know, we talk about God's great love, but really we shouldn't use that adjective when we speak of the love of God, because the reality is, is that He's love perfect He's perfect love. He's perfect mercy. He's perfect grace. Now my little finite mind has to quantify it somehow, but how can you quantify something that is infinite in nature? See, I'm telling you, we'll drown in this if we hang out here long. Because the reality is our God is such an awesome God. In fact, I I don't know that anything but God deserves that title of being awesome. Anyway, we see here this description that he uses the jasper, he uses the sardine. I'm told that stone is a red gem. It's much like the ruby. And it speaks of the consuming fire of God. When God revealed Himself to Moses in the burning bush, he revealed Himself as a fire. We're told that our God is a consuming fire. That's who our God is. And my friend, look, this vision of the Lord, not only did he see the various beauties of his perfection, but he also saw the consuming fire of his nature. And then he spoke of this rainbow. And he talks about how that rainbow was like an emerald, like the sight likened unto an emerald. And I believe that rainbow round about the throne is a reference back to a covenant-keeping God. A God who made a promise and stood to it. And a God who's made promises to you and I, you see, that throne would be a terrifying sight were it not encircled by a covenant. If it were not encircled by a promise. I'm telling you, my friend, that throne would cause you and I to drop in terror and clutch our heads and cry out for mercy, but around that throne is that covenant promise That whosoever will may come, that the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all unrighteousness. And when I look at the throne, I gotta look at it through the rainbow of the promises of God that He saves every vile sinner that'll come to Him. Looking for mercy. Thank God for our Lord. He gets a glimpse. He looks into this throne and he and he sees the one who is seated there And then he gives us details. And I I want you to notice in verses 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, he describes 24 elders. He talks about seven light, uh seven lamps. He talks about a sea of glass and four beasts And I'm not going to get into all of these this evening. I believe they represent something, and I think they speak to something, but I want to look at them in totality because I believe they all communicate one message. I believe they communicate the message that the entirety of the church is here. They're all assembled. Oh, I've heard it said, those 24 elders, and by the way, it really just doesn't make clear who they are. Some would say, well, it's the twelve apostles and twelve representatives of tribes, the twelve tribes. of Israel. Well that sounds good and it seems to fit. But the Bible says that I believe they're a redeemed people. They're clothed in white raiment. They got heads or crowns of gold upon their heads They're sitting in a place of judging. Then you read about these seven and the seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven spirits of God, and I I think you go back in in Revelation 2 and 3 and you see those seven golden candlesticks representing the church. Then those four beasts, some have said those are the messengers or messengers for the church. I'm just saying that I believe what's found here, and by the way, in the fall, Lord will, if God allows us and grants a green light, I'd like to study verse by verse through the revelation. And I want you to pray to that end, but my purpose tonight is to get you to see this, that the church in her entirety is gathered round the throne. Never in history has the whole church been assembled. Never. Sometimes I sit up here and I look over the congregation. You say, What are you doing? I'm looking for who's missing. I'm thankful for who's here, but I'm looking over the crowd. I'm saying, who's not here? I wonder why they're not here. Are they sick? Has there been a death? Are they in sin? Have they backslid on God? Are they mad? What's the reason? And you know as well as I do, my friend, that that if everybody who who claim to be a part of this local assembly were to ever show up at one time, we might not have place to sit. If everybody showed up. And the reality is the church has never had a complete assembly of all of its members. Some are already in heaven. We were singing about, I love that song. I don't know why I love that song you were singing this morning, choir, but I love that wonderful country. And I was thinking about the people that are already in there Already over there, already enjoying that. Many people who once sat on these pews are now in that wonderful country. Many dear people that we love dearly, I mean folks we worship with, went to church with. I was just sitting here thinking of all those in these last nine years that are already there. They're in that wonderful country. They're already there. And you know, when you stop and think about that, we miss them, we long for their fellowship, we'd sure love to see them come back, but listen, we know that's not going to happen, but here's what we do know there's going to come a day when all the saints of God get assembled over yonder and we're going to gather round the throne. We're not going to sit in the building like this on pews and We're not going to stand in a great temple somewhere. We're going to gather at the throne of the God of heaven and see all the beauty and splendor and wonder of heaven. And we're going to behold it with our own eyes. What a day that's going to be. So we see the church. You know where the church is in heaven? It's gathered around the throne. It's gathered around the throne. What a day that's going to be when God's children get to see that great throne. That throne is a is uh declares a message. That throne speaks of a sovereign who sits and rules. We uh see this throne speaking of one whose who is God, the very God, who uh rules and reigns and has no challengers or no no no challenges for that matter He is the great supreme ruler of all things. And that's where the church is going to be. The church is going to gather around the throne. It's interesting to me that the first picture we get of the church up there is her first gathering, and she's round the throne. But not only is there a gathering, can I can I just hurry and show you something else? We see this occupied throne, and not only do we see the description, the details. But let me just quickly touch on this before I move to the second point. I want you to see the declaration. And that starts in verse 9 of chapter 4. It says, those beasts give glory and honor and thanks to him that sat on the throne, who liveth forever and ever. The four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne, and worship him that liveth forever and ever. And cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory, honor, and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. I want you to see what's being declared. They're declaring something there. There's a declaration. Heaven is not a place of silence. In fact, it seems everywhere I read in the Revelation that there's something being said. And that something being said is always about someone who's special. And you know what they're saying there? They're saying at this gathering around the throne, they're saying, and by the way, one day your lips are going to say these words. One day you're going to join in this heavenly harmony. I just found something the other day, and man, it's a real treasure to me. It's things I've never really seen before, but it was the hymn book that Mr. Spurgeon compiled for his church. He used two ancient hymn books and didn't like either one of them in totality, so he made his own. That was his way. And so he made his own hymn book and gave it to his church and issued it, I don't know, some twenty so years before he passed and went to heaven. And as I was reading some of those hymns, many I'm not very familiar with, some I've never heard, some are taken out of the Psalms and they're They're adaptations of the Psalms. In fact, the first 150 Ps are adaptations of the Psalms that they would sing. And I noticed one thing as I went through it very casually and just gone through, I noticed that it it magnified the worthiness of the Lord. Now that's what a song, a spiritual song, a song we sing in the house of God, ought to do. It ought to magnify the worthiness of the Lord. Because in heaven that's all they're talking about. Nobody's talking about uh who they are or their experience or what they've come through. Nobody's gonna be singing a sad song about what a hard road they had getting to glory Not one, not one time is that sung up there. You know what they're saying? Thou art worthy. Thou art worthy. They're singing of the worthiness of the Lord. You're worthy to receive glory. You're worthy to receive honor, you're worthy to receive power, and then they say thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. That's going to be our song. I don't know about you, but I won't practice a little before I get there. We we need to tune up our our hearts. And get ready. But they're singing of the worthiness, the worthiness of the Lord Well, that is their declaration. Quickly, not only do I see an occupied throne, but as we move on in the scene, in chapter number five, John describes a prevailing prince. Here's a prevailing prince. And starting in verse number one, he speaks of seven seals. Look at it. And I saw on the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within, and on the backside sealed with seven seals. You say, what are those seals? Well, I believe they're corresponding with the seven judgments that are described further in the book. The vials, the bowls, the trumpets. And all of these are a correlation of a judgment that's going to come. And here he speaks of the seals. There's a book, and all those seals are there, and no one has the authority to unleash them or release them upon the earth. And not only do I see the seals, but I see a search. And verse 2, and he said, I saw a strong angel, proclaiming with a loud voice. Listen to what he's proclaiming. Who is worthy to open the book? And to loose the seals thereof. Who's worthy? I want to take you back to verse 11 of chapter 4 and say, Thou art worthy. Thou art worthy. You know what? I don't believe it's a search for information. It's a search so that you and I can have understanding. It's a revelation of what what what's going on. Who's the worthy one? Who's the worthy one? Notice it says, No man in heaven nor in earth, neither under the earth was able to open the book, neither to look thereon. And verse four, look what John did. He said, I wept much. I wept much. Because no man was found worthy to open and read the book, neither to look thereon. I like what verse 5 says though. Here we find the search is over and a statement is made. What's the statement? One of the elders said unto me, Weep not. See, John's in a company he's never been in before. He's moving among a people with information he don't have. And they said, what do you it's not it's nothing to weep about. Understand this, there is someone who's worthy I just want to turn your attention his way. Look at this. He said, Behold the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed to open the book and loose the seven seals thereof You say, Preacher, who's worthy? Jesus is worthy. He's the great lion of the tribe of Judah. And here's something interesting. He he not only says he's a lion, but John said, Then I look and beheld, and what did he see? A lamb, as it had been slain. Now we know who that is. There's only been one lamb who came from heaven to die on earth. There's only one lamb who John said, Behold the Lamb of God. Which taketh away the sin of the world. There's only one Lamb that that could be the Lamb who standeth in glory there, and that is our precious Lord Jesus Christ. He said, Behold that Lamb of God. And notice, he says in verse 6, And I beheld, and lo in the midst of the throne the four beasts, the midst of the elders, stood a lamb as it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent forth into all the earth. And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne. By the way, when you get over in chapter six, you know what he does? He starts um doing the seals, loosen the seals. I'm going to tell you something. God is still in charge of time and eternity. There's a whole lot of worrying going on that ought not to go on. Who's gonna run this country? Who's gonna rise to power? Who's gonna be in charge? What's gonna happen? Let me tell you something. It's already settled in heaven. There's a throne in heaven that's already occupied. There's one who's in charge. And my friend, there's only one who's going to unloose the seals. And it's not the Antichrist. It's the blessed Lord Jesus Christ who's going to put things in motion at his appointed time. So I want you to see this prevailing prince and then Not only do we see the seals, the search, and the statement, I love this, he talks about this lion lion and this lamb who are one. You say, what's happening here? Notice they're glorying. They're glorying in Christ. So the saints are gathered around the throne. Now the saints are glorying in the Lord Jesus. Look, you know what's going to happen in heaven? All eyes are going to be on him. Sometimes we talk about heaven as if it's gonna be like earth and it's sure not gonna be. It's not even go there's not even gonna be a vague resemblance. You know, we I hear people say, well, you know what? When I get to heaven, I'm going to sit down with Peter and we're going to swap war stories. I don't think that's going to be the case. I don't think we're going to sit down and look at wounds and say, you know where I got that? You know how that happened to me? You know what? I I don't think any of that's gonna matter. I don't believe that's gonna be the focus of that land over there. I I don't think we're gonna be talking about all of the the the the suffering that took place down here on earth. I'm not minimizing it, it's real. It's what you go through. It's part of living. But the reality is it's not going to be the focus of heaven. We're not going to look back with relief and say, Oh, man, I got through that. No, we're going to look with wonder at the glory of the Lamb of God who died for our sin and made a way for you and I to be saved. He will be the glory. He will be the one glorified. He will be where the emphasis is when we get home to heaven. So they're gathered around the throne. See that. That's where the church is. We're talking about in the future. This perfect church, the church of the Lord Jesus. She's going to gather around the throne and she's going to glory in the Lord Jesus Christ. If you're really saved, it thrills you when he's gloried in. When he's gloried in. You know something? We live in a sad day, don't we? We glory in a lot of stuff. It just It's silly when you measured up by God's standard. We really do. Who would have ever thought, I mean if you'd have told the Apostle Paul, there would be such thing as big time evangelists, big time preachers. Paul would have said, Get thee behind me, Satan. We're servants of the Lord Jesus. Who who would have ever thought that we would glory in magnificent buildings? There's a well it's it's has the name of a church. It's a Baptist church, says it says they're a Baptist church. They don't believe in redemption through the blood of Christ. They they revile that and hate that And yet you can visit the building, and in that building is some of the most beautiful architecture you'll ever see. I mean, very skilled craftsmen built this assembly. This meeting house, rather. When you walk in, I I've been in that place many times in that First Baptist Church, as you stand behind the pulpit, you can whisper here and you can be heard in a balcony. much further than ours, uh the back of our building, up in the very top. We've we've done that just to see if it's possible. And the way this building was built, and they've curved that balcony in such a way that sound will carry I mean you just whisper. It was amazing. I walked around, I'd crap, and man, you could hear it just reverberate through the building thing. Would see probably a couple of thousand, maybe three thousand people. And and the ornateness of the inside of that building. It always amazed me. I just sort of like that sort of thing, especially if it's wood, because it I don't know the time that it took to build it. And everything in there is done by hand. You didn't have skill saws and all of that. I mean, these men cut this with their hands and chisels and all of that and built this beautiful building. I thought, man, what a building. And sometimes we glory in a building like that. I'd always take visiting preachers to see it. I'd say you gotta see this building. It's an amazing thing. And I remember taking one evangelist there, and uh he got in a very um heated discussion with one of the tour gods of this building. They still operated as a church, and I use that term li loosely. But they they were operating and and uh he he said to them, he said, uh uh ma'am, have have you ever he said to that lady, he said, have you ever been born again? She said, Excuse me. He said, been saved. He said, like the Bible says. She said, pardon me? He said, ma'am, are you a member of the church here? And she said, oh, absolutely. Been a member for decades. He said, so you're telling me you've never heard you must be born again? She said, Oh, there's been a few fanatics come through with some little leaflets, and they say that kind of stuff. But no, that's not what we believe around here. And you know all they got the glory in? Is a great, big, beautiful building. That's all. Oh, they got beautiful stained glass and and you know it it's beautiful. I I mean when the sun shines through that stained glass and all those different colors, it is a beautiful building and and you stand amazed at all of the effort that it took, but that's all they got to glory in. Church, I'm here to tell you there's no temple made with hands in yonder glory where we'll we'll worship. That land's not going to make us glory in the ornate structures. That land is the place where we glory in the Lord Jesus Christ, who loved us and gave Himself for us. And there's something in ever saved soul that says, Amen, so be it. Can't wait till it happens. I'm looking forward to it. Because I'm tired of glorying in men. I'm tired of glorying in flesh. I'm tired of glorying in buildings. Let's glory in God. And they glory in the Lord Jesus round that throne. What a place that's gonna be. Nobody's gonna be our sorts there. Nobody. You know, when you're about half backslid, you don't glory in the Lord. You eat right with God. And you and and about all you can do is groan over your sad condition. And even at times when you are right with God, you groan over your sad condition. You groan over the reality that who shall deliver me from this body of death? You understand the reality that you and I live in a prison house, so to speak. And yet there's going to come a day when the old prison house will be set free. We'll be set free. And those bars will be broken, and that chain will be clicked, that silver cord will be broken, and yonder we'll go to glory, and we won't have no flesh to fool with up there. No flesh. There'll be no groaning over anything there. We'll just be glorying. Sometimes these old bodies get in the way, don't they? As much as you want to worship and praise the Lord and glory in Him, that nagging pain that just won't go away has just got your attention. And it's just there. It's just the reality of being a card-carrying member of the human race. I'm going to tell you something. As I move into my fifties and start through them, I I miss the day of of hurting for reasons. Don't you? I remember when it used to hurt and I knew why it hurt because it did something. Now I get up in the morning and I say, Elizabeth, what did I do yesterday? Well nothing that would hurt you. Well it must have been I mean whoever thought sleeping would hurt you? I slept wrong. You can't walk right for three days because you slept wrong. What's wrong with us? Well you live in a body that's dying and decaying I'm glad up there. You ain't gonna have to worry about that. This body's not gonna hurt or pain. You're not gonna be distracted by all the the the struggles of life as as we now know it. We'll be set free, hallelujah, set free, and forever will glory in the Lamb of God, perfectly glorying in the Lord Jesus around that great throne. That's the church in heaven. That's a church heaven. I don't know about you, but it makes me a little bit excited about this gathering that is to come. We look forward to that day when the church gathers in heaven. Not only do we see the church gathered around an occupied throne, glorying in this prevailing prince, but I want you to see, last of all, they're giving to God worship. They're giving to God worship. In verse number 8, the Bible says, And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and the four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb. Having every one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of saints, and they sung a new song. I want you to see the worship that's going on up here. Number one involves singing. As best I can tell, I can't find preaching in heaven. I don't find it. I don't find messages being delivered in that fashion like it is down here on earth. I used to hear preachers say, Well, I can't wait to get to heaven. I'll be able to finish the sermon. Why preach when you're in the presence of him of whom you preached? Ain't nothing to preach about. Just fix your eyes on him and glory in who he is. But I'll tell you what I do see, I see singing. They're singing what? A new song. A and by the way, I I've heard people say, well, you know, you people that stick with those hymns and psalms and all that, um, y you you need to do new you need to learn new songs because the Bible says we're going to sing a new song. Can I just pause right here and say? The new song they want you to sing, the new song we're going to sing in heaven, are not alike. Nowhere near. The new song you're going to sing in heaven is this. Here's what it says. Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain. And hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation, and hast made unto us our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. That's what we're gonna sing. It's gonna be a song about the redeeming power of God. Can you imagine what it's gonna be like? Every tribe. Every nation, every tongue, they'll all be represented. I preached in Ottawa, Ontario, and In that church, Brother Covey, or Covey, Brother Covey, George Covey, I was trying to remember his name He was a Newfoundlander, he he was a maritimer and went east and or west rather and he was pastoring a church there and started that church and pastored that church and it was the most international place I'd ever been I had like six, I was sitting on the front row getting ready to preach, and there were six or seven nationalities sitting behind me. Some were just fresh to the country. And I asked Pastor Pastor Covey, I said, uh how how many how how many different people groups are represented here in the church And he said, well, let's just find out this evening. And so he got up behind the pulpit. And how many, I think it was 19 nationalities were there that night? 19. The brother behind me was singing the hymn, but he wasn't singing in English. And he wasn't singing in French. I could understand both a little bit. I don't know what he was singing, but he was singing some different language. There was a very excited man who sat on that same road next to me and I mean he was so excited he scared me. I thought if he gets much more excited he's gonna grab and hurt me or something, you know. He's just one of them fellas, he's just enjoying it, he'd hit the pew beside him and And he just enjoyed he was he was from an African country. I forget the name of where he was from. But anyway, uh he he was man, he was full of God, and I didn't understand the thing he was singing Brother George Pastor George, he said, you know, he said it's a strange thing around here. He said we we sing in tongues. That's what he said, we sing in tongues. He said, I tell the people to sing in the language they're most comfortable with. And they did. And you know the wonder of it all? It sounded pretty good. It all blended together. That's amazing to me. And yet, that's just a small picture of what it's gonna be in heaven. When God's people all gathered together from every tribe, every tongue, every nation. And listen, the uniqueness there is recognized Although there's going to be a unity up there, we're all going to be glorified. Glorified boys. Don't think we're going to be utilizing our languages here, but nevertheless, it is recognized that every tribe and every kindred, every tongue, every nation There's people from all these places. Why? Because God has his people in every place. And he's gathered them all together, and they're singing. I love that. They're singing. That tells me that singing is not unimportant. It tells me that singing ought to be done in a way that pleases the Lord. I don't know if you heard Barry, Brother Barry Webb, Vangelist Barry Webb pray, but he he would pray. I don't know if he prayed it out here publicly or back there with me privately, but he would say, Lord, help us to sing in such a way that the people who are lost We'll want what we have. I never thought about that. That's what he prayed. Help us to sing in such a way that people that are lost will want what we have. You know, we ought to we ought to sing and say now you don't have to sing. You say, Well, I can't sing. Well, you can. It may not be pleasant to your neighbor, but you can sing. And so don't worry about your neighbor because you're not singing to your neighbor, you're singing to the Lord. Lift your voice. Sing with some joy and sing With with some enthusiasm, you're singing unto the Lord. The one thing you're going to do in heaven is sing. And I'll tell you what, for those of us who can't, I can't wait because I believe I'm not going to croak as bad up there as I do down here. I'm going to have a glorified tonsils And I'm gonna be able to sing like I man, I'd love to sing. These double barreled preachers that can preach and sing make me jealous. I just don't like 'em real good They can preach like the woods are on fire and they can sing just as well. Do both. You imagine? I guess the Lord never let me sing because if I did I probably wouldn't do much preaching because I'd enjoy that too much But let me say this. I understand in heaven you're going to sing and I'm going to sing. They're singing up there. They're singing a new song. And then not only are they singing, but listen to what they're saying in verse eleven. And he said, I beheld and heard the voice of many angels round about the throne, the beasts, the elders, and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands of thousands saying. With a loud voice. Now they're not singing now, they're saying. They're speaking this. They're just making this known. They're speaking and saying, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain. to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. That's what they're saying. They're singing a new song, but maybe there's a pause. And in the pause they say this. Notice really the the n the n the notes change or the tune changes But the truth is not. They're still saying, Worthy is the Lamb. Worthy is the Lamb. Whether they're singing it or saying it, it carries the same message. He alone is worthy. Saying worthy is the Lamb. Look at verse 13, every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them. Heard I saying, here's what they're saying: Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb for ever and ever. That's what they're saying. Now you say, who 's all these creatures that they're describing? I I'll be honest with you, I really don't know it very well that the earth is still going on. We're in the tribulation time Well the church is up in heaven. And whatever's happening down here is going on, and it says, such as are in the sea and all that are in them. You imagine a whale swimming by? Blessing, honor, glory. You say, that's silly. Talk to Balaam. That donkey had something to say. And he understood it quite well. You imagine? You know what's happening here? Everything is acknowledging the right worthiness of the Lord. I I think sometimes creation's got more sense than the created beings of man. I I don't believe that the birds of the air and even the beasts of the field just make noise and make noise. Oh I know scientifically we've got an answer. They're making a call for this and they're making a call to that. Have you ever thought about what's happening when the sun rises, that dawn chorus they call it, that the birds participate in? Every morning. That's my favorite time of the day. I love to have my windows open. And I like to hear it. Right now it's happening about five 18, 517, somewhere right there, 520, you'll hear them. That little Carolina rental start. Then the Robins will join in. Then the blue birds and the other late sleeping birds, they'll start singing. And they all join in. And I even got an old crazy rooster. He'll he'll start singing with them. Now he he don't start till five twenty five, but he'll start singing his song. And you know what they're doing? I believe they're praising God. I believe they're blessing the Lord of heaven. You say, preacher, I don't believe that. Well that's why you're so sad and sorrowful. You don't believe nothing. If you had believed something, you might get a blessing every once in a while. And I'll tell you what, I believe the created beings that God's made sing His praises more than you and I understand. They know who made them. You know what those birds are doing? They're saying, now Lord, thank you for the food you're about to feed us, because we know you're the provider of it. Every good thing comes from your hand You're the one that puts the worms in our bellies and the seeds in our beaks. You're the one that provides for us. And they praise him for it. But you notice here they're all saying the same thing. Worthy, worthy, worthy, worthy. And then I want to close with this. You see something very solemn in verse 14. The four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him. That liveth forever and ever. Now notice this. They're not singing anything. They're not saying anything They fall down. They're flat out. And they're worshiping him. I don't believe heaven's one constant tune of noise. I believe there'll be moments when they fall down. They just worship. See, worship's not so much about the decibel level as it is that heart turned Godward. He can be worshiped in the quietest moments of time. With a bowed head, maybe a weeping eye, and worship him. They fall down. He you notice the finality of this? The the beast said, Amen. It's almost like silence. Amen. He's worthy. Amen. Now let's acknowledge it. And on their faces they go. They fall down. And I love this. They worship him that liveth forever and ever. You say, what's happening here? Simply a culmination of the work of Jesus Christ on the cross. This is the high watermark. This is what he saved you for. To give glory to the Lamb. And there you are, the church. I'm talking about the church in heaven. We talk about the church on earth, and sometimes that's a discouraging thing. Let's just be real. Sometimes the view of the church on earth just tears the heart right out of you. Today, today in Philadelphia, they're having a farewell service for a church preach the gospel 70 years. They're closing it down. Nobody there, nobody to pastor it, lead it, they're shutting it down. They're holding meeting, my understanding is. And they're holding meeting, it's gonna be a farewell, it's done, finished, they're through. That hurts my heart. I was to be honest with you. Every time I see a church close, it kills me. When I see a church building put up for sale and they say Well the congregation ceased to be, so you know there's places around the country that there's antique malls and all sorts of things stuck in these old churches where the Bible used to be preached. That's sad That breaks my heart. I wish I had a thousand lives to live because I'd be a missionary a thousand times. I'd want to go see that come alive. I I love to see the Lord take something nearly dead and breathe new life into it. God can do that. We need to pray for our country that God will do that because there's a whole lot of places that are near death. A whole lot of places That's a church on earth. Sometimes she's a heartbreaking, sad sight. But that church in heaven She's as altogether lovely as the Lord. She's in his presence. She's gathered around his throne. She's glorying in the Lamb, and she's given all of her worship to the Lord Jesus. She's saying, Worthy is the Lamb. My my. If you're saved tonight, take heart. You're going to be in that company. You are going to be in that company. I'm talking about something's going to happen. Just put it in your daytime or it's coming. I don't know what day to put it on, but it's coming. Mark it down. You're going to be. If you're saved, you say, oh preacher, listen, believe the Bible, read the Bible, understand. There is so much more to come. No wonder those old saints who longed to leave this world, wanted to go to a better land. They understood something about what was waiting just ahead. But let me very graciously warn you, if you're not saved, friend, you're not going to be in this company. It may be you'll already be in hell. It could be you're going to be left on this earth and be going through that horrible time called the tribulation. And my friend, if you're not saved by the grace of God, you're going to miss what Christ died for. All the glory that I've described, all the beauty that we've looked at, all of the wonder of this place called heaven, that is not your home. Your home's in a place called hell, which will end in the lake of fire. And my friend, I only say that to warn you that you must be born again. You need to be saved, and you can be because Jesus died for you. He shed his blood to put your sin away. He was nailed on an old rugged cross for your offenses, your sin against God. Your crime, your transgression. And my friend, he was buried and rose the third day victorious, and he will save you. He will save you if you'll but come to him for mercy. I don't believe he ignores any pleas for mercy. Heard a man give his testimony. He said, you know, I didn't really pray a conventional prayer. I said, Well, what's a conventional prayer? Well, you know what's normally prayed. I said, really, let's let's get over that. Because in reality it says call. You just call. With the heart man believeth unto righteousness. With the mouth, confessions made unto salvation. He said, Well, just called on the Lord. He said, I just cried out. He said, My I learned later that my prayer wasn't too theologically accurate, but he said it sure was earnest. And he said I acknowledged I was a sinner and he was a savior, and only he could save me, and he said he did for me what I couldn't do for me. Now that's salvation. That's what you need. You'll not go to heaven without it. You'll not go to heaven without it. Don't make an idol out of what religion has made a sales pitch. Well, preacher, I I prayed the sinner's prayer. Which sinner? Really? Well, you know, that sinner's prayer that's on the back of the gospel tract. How about this? Have you called on the Lord Jesus to save you? It is not the words you speak, it's the one to whom you speak that saves you Now there's a calling required. There's a calling upon God. There's a working of the Spirit of God in man's heart. But I'm telling you, salvation's heart work, not mouth work. It's hard work. I've told you this, and I I talk to this dear person every once in a while. She'll send a note or something Sister Judy got born again. She got saved before she ever got in the altar. I believe it's all my heart. I watched that dear lady. She had gone out of the church. What, fifty times, sixty times, slammed doors, nearly took the windows out. She was mad as a hornet every time. I don't know why she kept coming back. I got to the point. I thought, if you don't like it, don't come. Just stay home. But she kept coming. And that morning she got up and she slammed her Bible and her hymn book, and she didn't go that way. She turned and went this way. And you could see a change in her countenance before she ever got on her knees. She got born again. And she testified later. She said, I don't know what happened to me, but something happened between there and here. And it took her a while to figure all that out and learn what the Bible says. But I'll tell you what, in reality, I mean to this day, man, that's been Oh my, we're coming on twenty plush years. And she loves God more now than she ever did. And has lived for God against impossible odds. And it just amazes me every time. And she's just so thankful. Oh, the Lord saved me. Isn't it wonderful? And if you were to ask her, did you pray the sinner's prayer? She'd say, What are you talking about? I believed on the Lord Jesus She did get on her knees and pray and talk to the Lord, but I'm telling you it's not a prayer that saves a man. It's not the words you utter to God. There's a lot of people talking the air and that's all they do. They've talked in the air and it doesn't go Any further than that. I'm talking about getting born again from above when God of heaven redeems you. That's what will take you to this place we're talking about, the church in heaven. You need to be saved if you're not. And if you are, look forward to this. Don't let your heart get too weary about all the The workings of the church on earth. She's a work in progress. She will be till the Lord takes her home. She'll have ups and she'll have downs. She'll be on fire and she'll need fire. She'll be alive and then she'll be nearly dead. She'll go all through sorts of all sorts of changes. But here's the reality: there's coming a day when we're going to be what God in heaven intended us to be. Fully and completely. And I say, even so, come quickly, Lord Jesus. Stand with me, please. Let's pray. Father.