I want you to open your Bible, please, to Revelation 19. And I'm going to read these verses, 21 verses in this chapter, Revelation chapter 19, and you'll notice a shift here or a change. Revelation nineteen is a culmination of all that we've studied so far. In fact, there is a coming together. Of all that God's been doing in Revelation nineteen. This is my favorite chapter in Revelation And this is the part I've waited to get to. Not because it's almost over in our study, but because of the great truth that is found in this chapter. The late Leonard Ravenhill, that great revivalist of another century, said on many a Lord's day he wearily would go to his study on a Sunday evening. Open the Bible and read Revelation 19. Put his amen where these saints put their allelujah. And then pillow my head, he said, and rest on the good promises of God. And that'll make sense once we read the chapter. The Revelation 19, would you look with me beginning in verse number 1? The Bible says, and after these things I heard a great voice of much people in heaven saying, Hallelujah Salvation and glory and honor and power unto the Lord our God. For true and righteous are his judgments. For he hath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her hand. And again they said Hallelujah. And her smoke rose up forever and ever. And the four and twenty elders and the four beasts fell down and worshipped God that sat on the throne, saying, Amen. Hallelujah. And a voice came out of the throne, saying, Praise our God, all ye his servants, and ye that fear him, both small and great. And I heard, as it were, the voice of a great multitude And as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunderings, saying, Hallelujah, For the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. Let us be glad and rejoice, and give honor to him, for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready. And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white, for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints. And he saith unto me, right, Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, These are the true sayings of God. And I fell at his feet to worship him. And he said unto me, See thou do it not. I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus. Worship God. For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. And I saw heaven open, and behold a white horse, and he that sat upon him was called faithful and true. And in righteousness he doth judge and make war. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns. And he had a name written that no man knew but he himself. And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood. And his name is called the Word of God And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean. And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron. And he treadeth the wine press of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And I saw an angel standing in the sun. And he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God. that ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and them that sat on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small and great. And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse and against his army. And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that had received the mark of the beast. And them that worshipped his image, these both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone. And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the horse Which sword proceedeth out of his mouth, and all the fowls were filled with their flesh. Revelation 19 is one great chapter in Revelation Everything we've studied thus far has been filled with what I would call dark truth. uh discouraging thoughts and really disappointing i uh events as you look to the future and see what the devil's going to do. But when we get to Revelation 19, we see how God brings it all together. We see how the Lord Jesus comes as a mighty man of war and rules with a rod of iron. We see the winning, if you will, of this great battle. There are three scenes in this chapter, and I wish to touch on each of them. There is first a scene of worship And I don't want to run through this and not point this out, but that remember before God works, his people worship. All through the revelation, if we've learned anything, that worship must always precede work, that before we do anything, we must have God do something in us. And there is a worship that takes place. This is in verses one to six. And then we see a wedding or a wedding feast. And that covers verses seven Down to verse number 10. And then we see a war. And this is the great war. This is that Battle of Armageddon, beginning in verse 11, down to verse number 21. This is the beginning of God's grand finale. God is uh bringing all that he's been doing, both on earth and in heaven. And he's bringing it to a crescendo. This is sort of the prelude, if you will, of the grand finale. And what a picture it is. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to us as we study this evening. Our Father, we come in Jesus' name and thank you for the privilege to pray. I thank you for the opportunity that we have to open our Bibles together again. For these few minutes, Lord, would you still our hearts and just quieten our minds and fix our eyes afresh on the Lord Jesus? I pray that you would do the work needed most in our hearts and we'll give you the glory for it. Lord, please help me, thou knowest my weakness. Hide me behind the cross. Help me to lift up the dear Lord Jesus. Be exalted in this place, O Lord. May our eyes be fixed on Thee. And we'll praise you for what you do, for I pray in Jesus' strong name. And God's people said, Amen. I want you to look at this worship scene. And the Bible begins in verse number one, and after these things I heard a great voice of much people in heaven saying, Hallelujah. By the way, don't get hung up on that word hallelujah, because it is the Old Test it's the New Testament equivalent of the Old Testament word hallelujah. In the Old Testament, the Hebrew translates it hallelujah. In the New Testament, the Greek translates it hallelujah, and both are an expression of worship. It is a statement that means God be praised, or praise ye the Lord. It's exclusively used in the New Testament in Revelation. It's especially used in heaven alone. It's one of those heavenly words that people use that is used to express the worship of God's people. Now I want you to notice who's worshiping here. In verse number one, we're going to call this crowd the vindicated. Look what it says about them. He said, I heard a great voice of much people in heaven. And here's what they're doing. They're saying, hallelujah, salvation and glory and honor and power unto the Lord our God. For true and righteous are his judgments, for he hath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her hand. And again they said, Hallelujah, and her smoke rose up forever and ever. These are are they, this great multitude here that are vindicated. They're vindicated because they were the subjects or the objects of the persecution of this one-world religion that swept the world under the rule of the man of sin. And there's a great multitude of them up yonder in heaven. And when they see God deal with her and bring her down. And when they see God begin to un uh undo or dismantle uh the the devil's empire They bow on their face and they worship God and they say, Hallelujah. God be praised. Dear friend, anytime God works, he ought to be praised. All of God's works ought to be praised. Everything God does ought to solicit a word of praise from the mouth of his people. And here we see the great multitude that are vindicated. Many of this group are martyred men and women. Many of this group have suffered at the hands of the man of sin. Though he took their life. He could not take their joy. Though he extinguished their existence on earth, he could not eliminate them in eternity. The devil can do a lot of things, and we see that in both time and we see it in history, but let me say this, he cannot take our salvation. He cannot undo what God has done in the heart of his people. No matter what he threatens, no matter what he suggests No matter what he whispers, no matter what he utters, I'm grateful to report to you that the Bible says, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. We're kept by the mighty hand of God. We're held in his good hand. And I'll tell you what, there's no better place to be than in the hand of the Lord. And he ought to be praised for that. And here they are. They're standing in heaven. Now listen, they have been on this earth. They have been through the trials and the tribulations. They've been through the suffering. They've been through the sorrows. They've shed their tears and some have shed their blood, but now God has vindicated them. They've come out on the top side of things. And they join in with that great multitude, and they say, Hallelujah, God be praised. He has taken vengeance upon that that one world religion, the great whore that was upon the earth. So that's the worship of the vindicated. Then notice this. There's another crowd there. In verse number four, we read that the four and twenty elders And the four beasts fell down and worshipped God that sat on the throne, saying, Now they say more. They say, Amen. Hallelujah. So be it, God be praised. Here they put their their stamp of approval, if you will, their voice of praise upon the workings of God. Who are these? These are the victorious. Remember, the 24 elders, I believe, represent both Old and New Testament saints. They represent the totality of the people of God. By the way, in this crowd will be every person who's ever been saved. In this great company, there will not be one person missing. And I'll be a person AWAL. There's not going to be somebody homesick. There's not going to be somebody who's distracted and drifting away from the Lord. All of God's people are going to be gathered. All of God's people are going to be in that place. You know, it it church ought to be a little picture of heaven on earth. But the sad reality is that oftentimes either sickness or sometimes it's just plain old sin or selfishness keeps God's people from being where they ought to be. But the truth of the matter is there's coming a day when all of God's people will be present and accounted for. They're going to gather around the throne, and you know what's going to happen. By the way, if you're saved, I'm reading something you're going to do I'm telling your future. I'm telling your future. This is this is in in the future somewhere. I don't know how far or where, but I do know this. In your future, this is going to take place. And the people of God are going to gather and bow on their face. And here's again, verse 4. They're going to fall down and worship God that sat on the throne. I'm telling you, this will be a scene like you've never witnessed before. This is going to be such a holy gathering of God's people. Imagine this, if you will. All God's people gathered round the throne and God on a throne. And they fall down on their faces. And all they can utter is, Amen, hallelujah. Amen, hallelujah. So be it, God be praised. They're they're they're voicing their uh their appreciation and worship around the throne of God. Just picture in your mind for a minute, would you? What kind of what kind of gathering that's going to be There's going to be such a multitude you can't count them. It's going to be an innumerable host of individuals Who've been saved by the grace of God and washed in the blood of the Lamb. And they're going to be all that by the way, you know what? There's going to be no Baptist section, Methodist section, Presbyterian section. It's all going to be the people of God Gathered from every kindred, tribe, tongue, nation. It's not gonna matter your background, who you are, where you're from. All of that's burned up in the bright light of eternity, and there before the throne of God we'll worship him forever. Wow, what a day that's going to be All this party spirit, all this division, all this senseless stuff that is carried from one place to the other will be burnt up in that great place called eternity. And there at the throne of God will bow. There'll be no pride holding you back. There'll be no restrictions. You know, somebody said to me, preacher, if I got on my knees, you'd have to call 911 to get me up Well, we got nurses here and we've got uh we've got paramedics. I mean we got specialists in the building, so if you go down we'd probably get you up But the the reality is you say, but my whole body won't let me do it. Aren't you glad there's coming a day when all those limitations will be taken away? You'll be in a glorified body. You will not have the limitations you currently have. We'll not have the beauty of this thing is we'll not have our old sin nature. We'll not have that rotten old of us that we'll carry with us till the day we die. All of that, friend, will be put away, and in the perfect eternity, in the purity of God's presence We'll be on our face worshiping the Lord. Now, if you're saved, you're interested in that. If you know the Lord Jesus, you're keen on that. There's something stirring in you who know Christ that says, even so, come quickly, Lord Jesus. You're hastening that day. You're looking forward to that experience. Though it's never happened, though you've never encountered it. You sure are looking forward to it. This is the worship of the victorious. Now, there's another crowd described. In verses five and six we read that a voice came out of the throne, saying, Praise our God, all ye his servants. Ye that fear him, both small and great. Now listen to what he heard. I heard, as it were, the voice of a great multitude. And as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thundering, saying, Hallelujah, for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. Here is a vast multitude. And in this multitude are so many that when their voices blend together. John described it as the voice of many waters, as the voice of mighty thunders. You imagine There's going to be such a rumble when those glorified bodied voices speak up and say, Hallelujah, the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. What a scene that is. As that vast moment. By the way, there's a crowd that wants to divide the church into peculiar sections. And to divide the body of Jesus, they would say to you things like this. They would say that vast multitude Is all the people of God. But now we're going to come to a wedding and there's a marriage supper, and the people that are there around that table, well, they're the elite Christians. They call them Baptists. And I call that baloney. Because everything I read in the Revelation, there's no distinction made. You'll notice that they're joining together. God's not going to have a section where he puts the super spiritual. Because they're, pardon the bad English, there just ain't no critter. There's no such animal as a super spiritual. There's no such individual. I'm here to tell you tonight that heaven is going to be a great leveler of all mankind. All of the saved, and by the way, so is Calvary. If you really understand your Bible, Calvary is a great level. The foot that listen, the the ground around the cross is level There's no super saints or structure where some are above another. And you know, even in this text, idolatry is condemned John started to worship the angel. John's so enamored with everything that he's heard, he misspeaks. He misspeaks like Peter of old. You would think for a minute that it was Peter talking and not John. When John began to give his worship to the angel, and the angel said, Stop. Worship God. He said, Get your eyes on the Lord Jesus, that that that one who died for all. He said, I'm a fellow servant. Listen, in heaven there's going to be no structuring or layering of saints. There's no crowd going to be up here and another crowd down here. Thank God we're all going to just simply be around the throne We've all been washed in the same blood, saved by the same Savior, and in the same heaven for the same reason, and given God the glory for it, and Him alone. Be a good thing. Be a real good thing. If this structuring and layering of authority or of powers and and and and and positions and all of that be burned up in the minds of men. Be a great thing if that just go away. Oh, we have different responsibilities. I don't have your responsibility, you don't have my responsibility. But when it comes to the cross, and it comes to Christ, and it comes to our standing before the Lord, there's none, my friend, any closer. We all must draw nigh by the blood of Jesus Christ. Thank God for that wonderful work of the Lord Jesus. And this vast multitude, here they are, he says, small and great. They're all included None are excluded. None are put away on the sidelines. We all are joining in. And I want you to see that. We're all joining in Do you know we all have gone to church? We're all going to church right now, but not everybody's going to church. We're all sitting here, but we're not all here. And I'm not talking about your mental capacities either. We're all in this building, but we may not be all engaged in what God's doing. We all may not be worshiping. We may not all be, you know, we all may not even be interested. There may be the indifferent and the apathetic and the unconcerned. And there may very well be the unconverted, and there's all sorts of hearts and minds and situations. But yonder in heaven I want you to see that everyone is engaged in worship. That everyone is involved in this. Every man, woman, every individual is going to be looking to the Lamb. And they're worshiping God who's on the throne And they're all look at this, they're all lifting their voices saying, Hallelujah, the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. And that's going to make heaven reverberate as they bring their praises and they give them to God and give him glory. There's some sitting here and maybe it's God knows that this I'm not trying to get you to do anything you're not supposed to, but I'm just telling you there's some here that that if you let out a holy grunt, three people would pass out on your pew 'cause you've never done so. They'd think something was drastically wrong. But listen, in heaven we're all gonna say this. We're all gonna say it. It's what my Bible says. Everybody here is going to take the and they're going to say that. Hallelujah. The Lord God omnipotent reigneth. You say you believe that? I believe that in my whole person. I believe that God's telling us what's going to happen as that vast multitude worship. Oh, the worship of God's people is a beautiful thing to behold. All through this book, I haven't took the time yet to count, but I will before we're done. How many scenes of worship have we been allowed to view? How many times has God rolled back the curtain and said, Let me show you something happened in heaven? Let me show you what's taking place up yonder. I believe right now, according to Isaiah. According to other places in Revelation, right now, around the throne, there's angels circling. Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. Right now, right this very moment If you and I could be translated from here to there and look into that great, beautiful place, we would simply see the worship of those we would see the worship of those angels and their cry and declaration God enthroned above, being given the glory. Now look, you might be so carnal that you're sitting here saying that don't interest me May the Spirit of God stir you. I I don't, I've not expressed all I felt. But there is a stirring that God put in my heart when He saved me. And I can't put words to it and I can't explain it and I don't have all the theology to to fathom it with, but I do know this. There's something in me wants to make a whole lot out of him. There's something God put in me that wants to brag on him. There's something in me that just wants to glorify him in whatever feeble way that I can. Why? Because he's worthy. He's worthy. Look at them. Look at this worship. What a scene. I I hate to leave it, but we must, if we're going to get this done. I want you to look with me now at this wedding, this wedding feast. It begins in verse number seven. And we're introduced to a bride who's gotten ready. Look what it says. Let us be glad and rejoice and give honor to him, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife hath made herself ready. Now, you say, preacher, who's who's the wife? That's the body of Christ. That's the bride. Those that have been born again, washed in the blood. And it says that she's made herself ready. This prepared bride is the equivalent of getting right with God. She's a ready bride. She's gotten ready for this moment. You dear ladies, remember your wedding day? Do you remember the preparation that went into it I was thinking this afternoon about our wedding. Elizabeth, what time did we get married? I can't remember. Do you remember? What time? I can't see. Tell me. Three o'clock. Okay, three o'clock. I'm certain, I don't know for sure, but I'm certain she was there sometime that morning getting ready. Took all day. I mean there's a lot of preparation. Now the groom doesn't go to that much trouble Not the male kind anyway. That morning I milked cows from two thirty to eight thirty. I got done milking, I I went home and got me some breakfast and took a shower and went to town and got a haircut. Time I got a haircut I came back home, put gas in the car, uh got all of our stuff ready for our trip for our honeymoon. And then realized I hadn't tied my necktie. And I stood there thinking, you know what, I don't know how to do this. And so all of my neck ties at that time were tied and hung on a on a cr uh hanger for me. And so, but this was a new one. This was my marion tie, so it was not tied. And I thought, you know what, I gotta be at the church here in a minute, and I'm not sure what to do. So I called my brother. I said, I called him, I said, Eddie, are you at home? He said, Yeah, I was getting ready to go to your wedding. Where are you? I said, well I'm at home, but uh my necktie 's not tied. He said, get up here. And I drove up to his house and and uh he fussed at me and showed, but I still couldn't. I mean I was so nervous he could have showed me fifty times And I still wouldn't have known. And I got there with a whole five minutes to spare. And I thought I was doing good, right? I really thought that I was doing good, man. I had five whole minutes. What are you gonna do five minutes? But I'll tell you the bride was taking a whole lot longer. The bride was uh putting a whole lot more Polish and shine on. The bride was getting ready. And you know it showed. I'll never forget. Man, I it's burned in my mind. There's a lot of things I forget, that's for sure. But I'll never forget when them double doors opened at the back of Trinity Baptist Church and Elizabeth stepped through them. I'll never forget Ralph, my preacher, my pastor, he poked me in the ribs. He said, boy, there she is. And I'll tell you what, I ever thing in my body was like jello. I was shaking And uh I was hoping, dear Lord, don't let me pass out right now. Please help me stay on my feet. Boy, she 'd gotten ready. Listen, Jesus is not coming back for a dirty bright. Bride made herself ready. Now that gives me hope, church. I'll tell you why it gives me hope. Gives me hope that there might be revival before Jesus comes. It gives me hope that that bride's going to be stirred one more time. That the sweet Spirit of God is going to work his church in a sweet way and bring the people of God back to Himself. It gives me the hope that one day God's going to so stir His children that the bride will make herself ready. I see a prepared bride, and then I not only see that, but I see a righteous covering Look at her, verse eight. And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white. For the fine linen, what is that? Is the righteousness of saints. Would you look at her? You know what she's robed in? She's not robed in earthly rags. She's robed in heavenly righteousness. She wears something that's not hers, somebody else's. She's got something on that belongs to Jesus. She's got the righteousness of Jesus Christ on her. She doesn't come in her own apparel. We read about the the the parable uh of the marriage feast and you remember that individual who got into that gathering and they weren't clothed in the garment. They said you cast them out, bind them, cast them into outer darkness. I'm here to tell you that when this bride gathers, she's going to gather robed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. It's going to be visible what is currently viable. You're going to be able to see what you currently possess Because God says if you're saved, you have the righteousness of Christ. Everybody here tonight who's saved by the grace of God, when God looks at you, He sees something you can't see. When you look at you, what do you see? You see sin, you see disappointment, you see failure, you see the times you let the Lord down. You see all that stuff, that that robe of righteousness covers you. My brother gave me a coat, and I don't know how big he thinks I am But I think that coat was 4X. Now I'm not going to tell you what size I wear. It's none of your business. But I am going to tell you that that 4X would swallow me whole. I put that on and I wrap I mean it it could wrap around me. And and I thought, man, that that covers I could you could just about wear the thing like a dress. It was so big and so long. And uh but it it covered me up. And I'm glad to report to you. There's something that'll cover you from head to toe. There's something that will cover every sin, cover every failure. Cover everything that you've done that dishonors the Lord. Thank God for the righteousness of Jesus Christ that ruins his little children. And what is invisible at this moment will one day be gloriously visible. As that bride comes walking in. My my. And then I want you to see two real blessings. At this wedding. In verse 9 it says, He saith unto me, Right, blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, These are true sayings of God. I want you to see this call to the marriage supper. You say, what is the call? It's that call of conversion. It's the converted. They're called. Now I said before there's some like to make a distinction here And they like to divide God's people up, and they say those that are called to the Married Supper of the Lamb are those that are the faithful in Jesus Christ, i. e. those who identify as true Baptists. That 's wrong. Because if you go and search this this this call and you go back and look at the call that that that invites us to the marriage supper of the Lamb It's identical to and familiar with and similar to that call to come to Christ, to believe on Jesus. It 's the call of the Father to his children. It's that call that summons you and I to come. See, except the Father draw you, you will not come. You cannot come. There's no deciding for Christ without Christ doing a work first in you. Men say, well, I'll get saved when I want to get saved. No, you won't get saved. When you want to get saved, you'll get saved when God's dealing with you about getting saved. We're dead in our trespasses and sin. We're blind to that in spiritual matter unless God's doing something and working in our heart I'm saying that this call comes from heaven above, and what a blessing it is. If you're saved tonight, you heard that call. We've heard the joyful sound. Jesus saves. Jesus saves. I'm looking over this congregation and there's a multitude of you who've heard that joyful sound. Some of you heard it at a middle age or at a young age or an older age, but thank God you heard the call. And you responded and you came to Jesus Christ and you got born again. Blessed are they that are called. There's a blessing in the calling. There's a blessing that God would save the likes of us. I don't understand all of this. These are deeper waters to swim in than I got little paddles to go through. But I will tell you this. Salvation is of the Lord. And the workings of God are so wonderful. The workings of God are so wonderful that God would step down into a man's old world of sin and mess and convert him and save him and change him. Isn't it a glorious thing? I mean, do you remember when you heard the gospel? Do you remember when you responded to the gospel? You might have known the message, you might have heard the message, you might have been familiar with the message But there was a moment God was doing something in your heart. I could tell you the gospel as a five-year-old boy. I've heard it my whole life to that point. I could tell you when I was six and seven, but I was not converted then But I'll tell you it became a whole different story when the Holy Spirit of God singled me out, spoke to my heart, I heard that call, I responded, Oh Lord, save me, and in his mercy he changed my heart And I'm here to tell you tonight he's still in that saving business. Blessed are they that are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And then I want you to notice something else. I want you to notice Christ in this passage. Verse 10, I fell at his feet to worship him. He said unto me, See thou do it not. I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus, worship God. For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. You say, preacher, what does that mean? It means this: that prophecy has as its central focus the person of Jesus Christ. Any prophecy that has its central focus anywhere other than Jesus misses the mark. I'm not looking for the Antichrist. I'm looking for the real Christ. We started this study many Months ago, I don't even remember when we started, but quite some time ago. First of the year I think it was And we started in Revelation 1. 1, and we read the prophecy. We read the revelation of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. And I said then, and I'll say it now, that the revelation is not about the man of sin, it's not about the beast and false prophet It's not about the seven years of tribulation. It's not about the Battle of Armageddon. It's about the Lord Jesus Christ. coming in glory, glorified in eternity, worshiped by all who are converted, and every knee bowing, every tongue confessing that Jesus Christ is Lord for the glory of God the Father. Listen to me, it's about Jesus. I believe so many people miss the boat when they study prophecy and look for something other than Christ. They want to count the horns on the beast or the crowns on their head. Try to find out what the big toe stands for. Away with that. Find out where Jesus is in the picture and get a good glimpse of him and get your eyes where they ought to be and go forward. Christ is the answer, isn't he? He's the key that unlocks the door. I purposed in my heart when we started this study. I prayed, Lord, help me to preach Jesus in every chapter. And I I foolishly thought, now how am I going to do that when we get to the Tribulation and we get to dealing with the beast, the man of sin. Well how silly because on the pages of God's Word he's clearly portrayed He's right there. You just got to pull him out. You just got to look at him and see that he's there. The testimony of prophecy, uh the prophecy is uh is the testimony of Jesus Christ is the Spirit of prophecy. It all focuses on Jesus Christ. By the way, this is the only wedding where the groom is the center of attention. Isn't that true? I mean our culture it's all about the bride, isn't it? Chris, you got married if I read Facebook right six months ago. Today? Six months ago today. Man. Before you know it we'll be saying, Well, sixty years ago, Chris and Halle, I won't say it, but somebody else will, you know. I'll be in heaven. But six months ago they stood up here. You remember how we came in? Remember the somewhat order, our our male side of this thing? We came in, we stood. We just stood there. Nobody cared if we was up here. Chris, I hate to make it till you both. Nobody would have said if you're up here. I mean we wanted you here. We couldn't have a wedding without you. But you're here. But then the special music starts. Remember? And we all rise, we all stand, the doors open, what happens? The bride comes in. All attention is on the bride. Listen to me. This wedding is right the opposite. The bride, she's there. She's there by the grace of God. But all the eyes are on the groom. All the eyes are on Jesus. All the eye look, all the attention is focused on him. Look, every eye is going to see him, every eye is going to behold him, every tongue is going to praise him, every eye is on Jesus at this great marriage supper of the Lamb. Thank God for the wedding. Well, I'm going to stop here as I don't want to rush through this war. Because there's going to be a war. What a changing scene this is. We go from worship to wedding to war. But I don't say this with any disrespect whatsoever. It's not much of a war. He's gonna speak, enemy's gonna be whipped. Period's gonna be put, time be done. Hallelujah. Thank God. That's how great our Savior really is. I don't know about you. That makes me want to just get that much closer to him. Love him more. Get better acquainted with him. Get closer to him. And live what days we have left. For what's really important. Soon this thing's gonna wrap up. It really is Very little is going to matter when this time comes. You know, we hadn't talked one time about bank accounts. Possession of land, titles, positions, authority. I talked one time about that We have talked about being saved. We have talked about being ready. We have talked about knowing the Lord. All the puny things of time that we put so much emphasis on. Is going to evaporate in the moment we step into his presence. It's gone. Might be a good idea to start living like we're going somewhere. Living like we've got somewhere to live besides here. This isn't it. This isn't it I'm glad there's a brighter day coming for all who know the Lord. I want to ask you tonight, do you know him? Are you saved? Dear friend, if you are saved, are you living for the Lord? Are you wasting your time spinning your wheels chasing some foolish idea that has no eternal significance? Know this. It'll all end one day. It'll all in. One of these days, our little Day and dates gonna be etched on marble or concrete or something somewhere We're going to be scratched in. And our race will be run. And our battle will be fought. And the war will be over. We'll be home. We'll not have another opportunity to redo. Never. Reincarnation is a lie of the devil. Nowhere in the Word of God are we taught you come back as anything. You go on living in a fixed address. Heaven or hell. You go on living. You're eternal. And dear friend, there's going to come a day when I can't come back and do what I ought to do now. Can't live my life over again. I still hear the words of an old preacher who said to me, just a young preacher of 16. He said, boy, live so that when you get old, you'll have no regrets. He said, Leave it leave it all on the field, so when you ain't got anything else to leave, you can say, I'm glad I did. Best advice I've ever been given. Let's live so there's no regrets. Now that might mean tonight that there's some things that all have to change in your life. There might be some priorities that need to be adjusted. There might be some things that need to be rearranged. We need to we there might be some adjustments that we need to fix in our lives so that Jesus Christ is first and doing his will is what we live for day by day. Let's let him speak to us personally and individually and help us to get ready for that great day is coming. Well today that's going to be. Like the old hymn writer said, When my Jesus I shall see. When I look upon his face, the one who saved me by his grace. When he takes me by the hand, leads me through that promised land. What a day, glorious day that's gonna be. Let's live for that day. Let's live for that day. Would you stand with me please?