Open your Bibles tonight, please, to Revelation. Revelation 8. Chapter number 8. And I want to begin reading this evening in verse number 6. We'll read to the end of the chapter. You'll notice a change here. We've moved away from the vials. The seven vials have been open and emptied. The judgment has fallen through them. And now we've move to a whole new a new level really of judgment and a new instrument uh that the Bible teaches us will sound out the warning for judgment and that is the trumpet So Revelation chapter 8 and verse 6 says, The seven angels which had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound. The first angel sounded, and there followed hail and fire mingled with blood, and they were cast upon the earth, and the third part of trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up. And the second angel sounded, and as it were, a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea, and the third part of the sea became blood. And the third part of the creatures which were in the sea and had life died. And the third part of the ships were destroyed And the third angel sounded, and there fell a great star from heaven, burning as it were a lamp, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers, and upon the fountains of waters. And the name of the star is called Wormwood. And the third part of the waters became wormwood, and many died of the waters because they were made bitter. And the fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun was smitten, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars. So as the third part of them was darkened, and the day shone not for a third part of it, and the night likewise. And I beheld and heard an angel flying through the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe to the inhabitants of the earth. By reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three angels, which are yet to sound. Now that's a phenomenal statement. It's as if the angel said you you hadn't seen anything yet. What's come is nothing. Listen, what's already happened, it cannot be compared to what's about to happen. And my what a statement that is. What a statement that is. But I want us to look tonight at these four trumpet judgments As we begin our study again here in the Revelation, we're trying to work our way through the book. But I want us to pray and ask the Lord to speak to us this evening. Father, again we bow our heads and acknowledge our need We pray in mercy that you would come near and Lord, use and help and work in our hearts through your word. Lord, I pray that you would have your perfect will and way with each one of us. And undertake for the needs of this meeting in hearts, every heart that's here. Lord, would you speak as only you can speak? Father, for these few moments, hide me behind the cross, fill me with the Spirit of God. Lord, help me to lift up the Lord Jesus, make much of Him. I want to thank you, Lord, that when judgment comes, there's a hiding place. I want to thank you for the Lord Jesus, who loved me and gave himself for me. I want to thank you, Lord, for a refuge in time of storm. I praise you tonight from a Savior. And Lord, I pray that you'll help us now. Just open the eyes of our understanding and teach us, O Lord, as only you can. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, and God's people said. Amen. I want you to notice the pattern here. And our God is a God of order. You cannot study the Bible without starting to realize that God does everything decently and in order. He's a God of methods. He's a God of uh of methodical movement. He he he operates many times in very similar and familiar ways. And as we study the judgments, the vowel judgments and the trumpet judgments, you'll notice that they're grouped in groups of four and three. The vile judgments were all in the first four, and then there was uh a pause, if you will, and then the last three. And now the trumpets are the same way. We have the four trumpets sounded, and then we have the warning from the angel. Now, trumpets in the Bible. Can represent various things, but its first mention and its primary purpose is to alert to war. Numbers chapter number 10, and I want you to tie this verse together with me, so go back and see it. Numbers chapter 10, you'll notice the use of the trumpet. Numbers chapter ten and verse number nine. The Bible says, And if ye go to war in your land against the enemy that oppresseth you, Then ye shall blow an alarm with the trumpets, and ye shall be remembered before the Lord your God, and ye shall be saved from your enemies. The blowing of a trumpet was a signal to war. Remember when the children of Israel went into Canaan And they began to make war, if you will. They didn't get to fight in this particular battle, but they were there to confront the enemy. And one of the things that they had to do when they s they confronted the walls of Jericho is that they were to blow the trumpet. The trumpet is a symbol of war, a signifier of war. And what we read here in Revelation chapter 8 is the signal from heaven That war is commencing on earth. It's a signal from heaven that war is going to begin on this earth. And as we begin to see these trumpets blown and these effects happen on the earth, we begin to realize that God is at war with this wicked earth. I want you to notice with me tonight, number one, the burning trumpet. We'll name these trumpets the burning trumpet, the first trumpet. In verse number seven, the Bible says the first angel sounded, and there followed hail and fire mingled with blood. And they were cast upon the earth, and a third part of the trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up. Now let me say before we look at these trumpets that I'm going to give you a literal interpretation of this passage. I believe if the Bible makes literal sense that we don't need to seek any other sense. Now there are good men who believe these represent other things, and I'm not here to fight or fuss. But I am here to save because as a conviction on my heart is that I do believe these are actual events that will take place on the earth That this is not a representation or a spiritualization of things that that you could just add into. Now, again, as I have said again throughout our study That when it comes to prophecy, God does not give us anything that that wets our carnal imagination He's not interested in stirring up our carnal uh curiosities, but he is interested in stirring up spiritual activity. I hope you sense the urgency of the message that comes out of the revelation. The urgency that the Lord is coming and judgment will fall and we need to be doing all we can while we have the opportunity to do it. Now some of us have heard this our whole life. I just want to say this and I'll go on. Some of us have heard from the from the very beginning. The first messages I remember, my pastor Ralph Sexton Sr. was a Prophecy lover. He loved prophecy and and uh probably one out of three messages had something to do with prophecy, and he he he loved to study prophecy. And I've heard since I was a wee child that the Lord is coming. And I've been and I've been told my whole life that that that these events are going to take place, and here I am 50 two years old and and the Lord hasn't come. You say, What does that mean? It just means the Lord hadn't come yet. That's all it means, but he is coming. Some of you have heard it longer than that. Some of you have heard it many decades, and you've heard the Lord's coming, the Lord's coming. Let's not check out on the truth because the reality is, be it far or near, and I believe it nearer than it is further, the reality is the Lord is coming. And we need to be living every day with that urgency that He could come, that He could come at any moment When we see these trumpets, notice that burning trumpet as the blast up from heaven comes and and and the hell and fire mingles. And what interested me is that many of these first four trumpets Align with the judgments that fell down in Egypt. They're very similar to what God did when he judged Egypt, except on a whole grander scale, a much larger scale. And so that this hail and fire come from heaven and and and that blood mingle, does that mean blood come out of heaven? Or or does it mean that it this hail and fire killed so many people? that that there was blood across the land. That very well could be the the meaning of it. But regardless of that, we're told that one third of all the trees are destroyed and all the green grass is gone. Here is an ecological disaster that is unknown to us today. They tell me that we have about ten billion, ten billion with a B acres of forest. And so a third of that, you do the math, that's over 3 billion, 333 million , 333 ,000 acres. The landmass of the United States, entire landmass of the United States, is only two point two six billion acres. Canada has another two point four six. So we're talking about somewhere all of uh the greater part, seventy five percent of North America, the forest, if it was all forested from coast to coast, from border to the to the North Pole, if it was all forested, that entire region completely destroyed In a moment of time. Now you say, what is the Lord doing? Can I remind you that in the Old Testament, when God wanted to get man's attention, he started working in the natural realm? Drought, flood, famine. So here he is, that first trumpet blows. Can you imagine a third of the trees immediately burned up? Can you imagine the devastation that that would bring to the earth at that moment? Can you imagine what a difference it would make? Now you say, Well, preacher, what do trees do? They do a lot of things. They keep the uh oxygen in the air, they uh they uh cool they help bring the temperature down upon the earth, they provide refuge for animals and and and such as that. They uh oftentimes direct the the wind patterns are affected. by the trees that uh and the forest. So the earth is going to begin to see the outpouring of the wrath of God. I want you to notice not only do we have that burning trumpet, but look at the bloody trumpet. In verse 8, the Bible says the second angel sounded, and as it were, a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea. And the third part of the sea became blood. And the third part of the creatures which were in the sea and had life died. And a third part of the ships were destroyed. You'll notice again the methodical work of the Lord in that it's a third, the third part of the sea, a third part of the creatures, a third part of the ships. I've heard some fanciful interpretations of what those ships are and all of these, what the burning mountain is, but let's just believe that God is able to take and speak through the natural world And that he cast this burning mountain into the sea, and the sea becomes blood. Now you think about it, a third part, do you realize that would be If we took all the oceans, the five oceanic divisions of the earth, and we were to divide them into thirds, that would that would include the entire Pacific Ocean Imagine the entire Pacific Ocean suddenly turned to blood and all the creatures in it die. Imagine with me i a third part of the ships be destroyed, you say, well big deal. Yeah, it's a big deal Because so much of our merchandise and so much of the things we depend on come by ship. If you don't believe me, ask somebody that knows. We depend on that. Third part of that. And you say, preacher, what's going on here? God is working through nature to get man's attention. Once again, another life-giving source. You see, you say, well I I don't depend on the ocean. You depend on the ocean more than you realize The reality is that God is touching everything that brings life to man. God's touching it in judgment. Notice with me the third trumpet. We'll call him the bitter trumpet. And in verse 10, the Bible says the third angel sounded, and there fell a great star from heaven. burning as it were a lamp, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers and upon the fountains of waters. And the name of the star is called Wormwood, and the third part of the waters became wormwood, and many men died of the waters because they were made bitter. Now, again, I've heard some awful fanciful preaching about what wormwood represents, but please hear me now. What we often do is try to intellectually speculate about something God has spiritually hidden. The reality is, is that whatever this is that comes down from heaven, it poisons a third part of the fresh water The rivers are poisoned, the fountains that that fountains are the underground reserves, the underground waters, the waters that feed our wells and such. A third part of that is poison. And the fresh water supply is tainted, and now men begin to drink that water, and when they do, they die. Do you see what's happening? Do you realize that God in mercy has begun to pour out his judgment and he's touching life sources one by one? And he's touching them so that man's attention will be gotten, that man will realize that God is doing this. Isn't it interesting? I've never really noticed this until studying and preparing for this, that all of the things that the climate change, tree hugging green peace, Movement alarms us about is outlined in Revelation 8. And they tell us, beware, it's going to be destroyed. Beware, man's going to destroy it. You say, What's up? I believe it's a preliminary preparation. for an acceptable explanation for the man of sin to say, I'll tell you what it is, climate change just went over the moon. And everybody's going to say, Oh, okay, we'll follow you. The man of sin is going to have an answer. And you know what we're doing? You're seeing people in the schoolroom of the devil getting ready for what's to come. The devil is educating. You know he's not a dummy. He knows that education is part of preparation, and he's educating a multitude of peoples. And he's saying, now get ready. Get ready. He's preparing us. He's preparing people. He's getting them ready to do what? To accept him. To realize that it's not so far-fetched, you know, you you hear them talking. I told you I I love talk radio and I heard one the other day and I listened to it, and sometimes I just listen to things that that make me mad just to make me mad And I was listening to it and the more I listened to it I thought, What how hang that made me very angry. The more he talked about the the the way man's gonna destroy the earth and the man and and then he's they start taunting and say, Well There's a certain element of our culture that believes God's in charge. And he said this. He said, the only God there is is the one you look at in the mirror. I thought, sir, there will come a day if you don't repent and get born again, that you will look in the mirror, but you'll not see God, you'll see hell. That's where you're heading, my friend. But oh listen to me. You know what the devil's doing? He's making preparation. He's schooling. He's educating. He's instructing. He's getting men's minds in a certain pattern So that when the man of sin comes on the scene. Now what does that tell you? That tells you that we must be awfully close. If he's already educating and uh uh preparing a generation of people, we must be really close. I heard a little child speak out in a public setting. And the little child, I mean, he couldn't have been no more than eight, nine years old. And and he was he was talking about saving the planet. And I thought, little fella, your planet don't even include a full county yet. You hadn't even been over the whole county. You don't know anything about planet But his little mind's been programmed to save that planet. It's your job to save the planet. It's your job to save. You know why? Because again, the answer, the man of sin is going to have an answer. And his answer is, oh, we didn't do a good enough job saving the planet, but if you'll follow me, we'll make do of what we got left But may I remind you that the God of heaven is still in control? And he's demonstrating to this earth that I am the God of the ocean, I'm the God of the tree, I'm the God of the grass. I'm the God of all things living, all things breathing, all things swimming, all things moving. I'm God and I'm in charge. And he touches it in judgment. Now we come to the fourth trumpet. And this trumpet is the blackened trumpet. It's the most dramatic in the sense of the effects that it's going to have on the earth. You'll notice with me, please, in verse 12, that the Bible says the fourth angel sounded. And a third part of the sun was smitten. Just for fun of it, look this up sometime. Climate alarmists are saying that a third part of the sun 's going to explode. That's what they're they're they're crying now. A third part, not a half. Not a quarter, you say coincidence, oh no. Just God letting you know he knew what he was doing from the beginning They said a third part, and watch this, a third part of the sun was smitten, and a third part of the moon, and a third part of the stars, so as the third part of them was darkened, and the day shone not, for a third part of it, and the night likewise Do you realize that they are already doing studies to see if the planet can survive with the third part of the sun? And guess what? It can. It can. The um uh Noah, it'll come to me in a minute, what National Oceanic All of that. Noah. They're researching to see if the earth can still survive, if plants will still grow. If the weather systems will be affected if the temperature will cool too drastically if a third part of the sun no longer shines. You say, why are they doing that? I'll tell you why they're doing that, because the man of sin is getting ready to step on the scene and have answers and lead until he has a collision with the Son of God. Now listen, third part. According to the Word of God, the effects will be that simply the lights are dimmed. It 'd be like taking a dimmer on the light switch and turning it down. And that haziness. You know, when we get a wildfire somewhere that's really large and that that high level smoke comes across and it sort of blocks out the sun a little bit, and you get that weird hazy look across. That's what the earth's gonna be like after this And and there's going to be that withholding of light. Of course it's going to cause the cascading effect of of ecological disasters. You're gonna have plants that will not grow in that environment. Some will but some won't. You're going to have a change in the weather as temperatures change and weather patterns change And there there's going to be an upheaval, of course, in in such a mighty way. It's interesting to me that life is going to be lived in a half lit haze. And it's going to be that way until the sun comes, who doesn't shine like the SUN. I'm talking about the SUN who's going to shine and shine forevermore. That fourth judgment is only a signal of things to come. Verse number thirteen, the Bible says, And I beheld and heard an angel flying through the midst of heaven. John said, I beheld and saw. Now this angel, as he's going to fly through heaven He's going to be crying. You say, Well men hear him? I believe it's possible. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa To the inhabitors of the earth, by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three angels, which are yet to sound. God 's touched every life-giving source on this planet. But when the next three trumpets sound What we might call the great tribulation will begin to unfold. You see, why does God touch natural things? To get man's spiritual attention. You and I are as connected to the things of this earth as the plants that grow roots into the soil, because you can't live without it. Can't live without the sun. We can't live without the trees. We can't live without the ocean. Our lives are rooted in that natural world. Now Have you noticed as well that we're a society that's moving away from an understanding of that? I mean, ask the average child. Oftentimes, sadly, the children don't know where their food comes from. Well where does milk come from? Well I guess you buy it at the store. Well where does the store get it? Well you I don't know, maybe they get it from a factory somewhere. Where does the factory get? You know what I'm trying to say? You know I'm telling the truth. We've moved away from a knowledge or an understanding of where that sort of thing comes from, where our sustenances lie. We look more to men than we do to God. It used to be when a drought hit the land, people would hit their knees and pray, God have mercy on us. Dr. John R. Rice said he was preaching in East Texas and There was a great drought that covered that part of the world, and he said the best revival he ever preached in his whole ministry was when those farmers got serious about seeking God to send them rain. He said they started confessing their sin to each other and getting right with God and making amends. And he said it wasn't long till God sent rain and restored their crops. And listen, God uses the natural world to get man's attention. God graciously warns us of things that are coming. Now, what is this information for? Is this simply to stir my curiosity, or is it Something higher. Oh, I believe it's something higher. God reveals these things to us not so that we'll be know-it-alls about what's to come, because He don't tell you enough to be a know-it-all. He doesn't give you enough detail so that you can stand and say, I've got it figured out. Now I've met a few who have, and the Lord bless them along their way But the truth of the matter is, you don't know it all. It's all hidden and oftentimes it's concealed. But know this: God does tell me enough to stir my heart. What is he stirring my heart about as I read these trumpet judgments? Number one, he stirs my heart to faithful fellowship. What do you mean? I mean walk with God. What's coming on this earth, friend? I would not want to be at odds with the Lord. Walk with him. Enoch is the example in the Old Testament, and the Bible says he walked with God, and he was not. I can still hear Brother Sexton saying he he he was the first member of the church of the wasnots. He wasn't an astronaut, but he was a wasn't not. He he was walking with the Lord and God took him out of here But you'll notice that when we see an Old Testament illustration of the removal of the saints of God, what's emphasized is that he walked with God. What's emphasized that in light of the coming of the Lord, he walked with God. You say, What ought I to do in the light of the coming of the Lord? Walk with God. What's important in my life? Walk with God. What ought to matter to me? Walk with God. What what should be the priority of my life? Walk with God. If I could urge you to do anything in this old world, walk with God. Mother, you walk with God as you try to raise your children. Father, you walk with God as you try to lead that home. Uh husband, you walk with God as you be the head of that house. Wife, walk with God. Listen, single young person, you walk with God. Listen, if you'll walk with God, you'll be in good company. Walk with God. Here they are. You couldn't do anything better with your life. Sadly, many who profess to know him deny him in the way they walk. It's better to get to know him now while we have the opportunity. Enoch walked with God. Let me ask you something. If if they wrote your story Would it somehow or another include that you walked with God? Would it be such an important factor in your life that they would say, now I'll tell you something about her? She walked with the Lord. Can I tell you something about him? He walked with God. He had a prayer life. He loved the Bible. He spent time with the Lord. He walked with God One of the best things you can do in light of the coming judgments is just simply walk with God. Let me say quickly, number two, not only should this stimulate my faithful fellowship, but it also should stimulate fervent service. Can I put it like this? Work for God. The opportunity to serve him is now, not tomorrow. The opportunity to do something for the Lord is today, not in the future. The opportunity, and I know we're sitting here, we're saying, Well, preacher, I've heard that my whole life, I know, but the day is going to come when the opportunity will be past. If not the coming of the Lord, the coming of death. For it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment. The best piece of advice that was ever given As a young preacher was by an old preacher, an old mountain preacher, and he pulled me aside and he said, Son, do all you can while you can, so you won't regret it when you can't. And that dear old man, the age had done its number. You know, there's a reason the Bible says he was smitten with years. The years smite us every once in a while. And buddy, he couldn't do all that he used to do, but he said, Thank God I did all I could when I could. And I'm saying to every one of us, faithfully serve, faithfully serve the Lord, fervently serve the Lord. The opportunity to serve God's now. You say, well, one of these days when when I I get, you know, in a better place financially, then I'll try to do something for the Lord. You'll never do it. Well, one of these days when when when life slows down, you know my wife and I always say this, when it slows down, we're gonna do this. We've been saying that for thirty-three years. It never slows down. And the truth of the matter is, it seems to get faster, or we're getting slower, or maybe both. I don't know. But the truth is, if you're going to do something for the Lord, live for him today. Stop putting it off into the future. The opportunity to serve the Lord. Judgment is coming, church. Can you not see the clouds? I I think of an old farmer out there getting his hay up, and he knows there's a storm coming, so we'd better hurry and get the work done. Because when the storm comes, the hay 's gone, the hay's ruin, it's g it's too late to pick it up, it's too late to bail it, it's too late to try It's wet. It's no good. Listen to me, dear friend. The judgment of God is coming. Let's do something for Jesus Christ today. We need to be fervent in our service. We need to work for God. As we walk with God, let's make sure that we're working for God. You say, preacher, I don't know what to do. Well, ask the Lord and let him open the door. There is a work to be done. There's a work to be done. Listen, there's work to be done in all sorts of ways. And my friend, it's all very important. It's all very important. If Jesus is not going to let somebody lose a reward who gives a cup of cold water in his name, Don't tell me there's there's one thing that's too small for him to recognize as work for him. I heard about a dear old lady who heard that and she took it literally. She's one of these Dear saints of God that just believed the Bible, what it said, she took it literal, and so she had a little spring, a little mountain spring. She didn't have a lot of she didn't have any money for that matter. She just simply lived very, very very scarcely. And and yet she had that spring of water. And so what she did every time she went to church She took enough water for whoever is going to be preaching. And she put that little cup of water, that little basin of water, she brought just enough water. For the preacher and and she said, I can't do much, but I did read that that I'll not lose my reward if I bring a cup of cold water. I'm gonna tell you something. God will reward that She was doing it for him. It it might not be a big deal to you, and probably a lot of people laughed and made fun, but the truth of the matter is the God of heaven said she's doing it for me. Just like that woman who put her perfume on the Lord, he said, Let her alone, she's doing it for me. Let her alone. She knows what listen, she's doing it for the King of Kings. And listen, get busy. Find something to do and do it for the Lord, and do it with your whole heart. God deliver us from this old half-hearted service. From just barely getting in and barely going on, just doing a little bit and doing just enough to get by. Shame on us. We're doing work for the king. We ought not to do just enough to get by. We ought to do our very best and be able to lay our head on the pillow at night and say, God, I gave it everything, and just a little bit more, and I did it just for you. Fervent service. Word for God. And then let me challenge you in one more area. We need to be fruitful in our soul winning. I mean witness for God. If you've ever gone after lost people, you ought to go after them now. Now hear me. You don't save them. You don't save them. I don't save them. You can't save them. I can't save them. Uh all the salesmanship in the world's not going to convert a dead sinner. That's not what I'm emphasizing. That's not what I'm stressing. I'm going to be talking about some of this because I think we bought a bill of goods from the devil when it comes to soul winning. We've left out the work of the Spirit of God. We've minimized the confrontational work of the Holy Spirit, who's got to grab a sinner by the ear, so to speak, and shake him into reality. You and I can have all the proper presentations and bring them to a place of prayer and maybe have them repeat words after us, but they're no more saved than this pulpit is if the Holy Ghost don't do a work in their heart. Because salvation's of the Lord. But please understand me, there's a work to be done in Soul Winnie. There's a witness for God that needs to be given. The angels are not going to do it. The animals are not going to do it. The birds are not going to do it. The Bible alone, just simply the Bible, the Bible's not going to open up and start talking. Somebody's got to be the voice. Somebody's got to tell the sinner. Somebody's got to speak. Somebody's got to share the gospel. Somebody's got to give the tract. Somebody's got to be the witness. Oh, brother, sister, if you've ever gone after lost people, go after them out. Because I'm telling you, you may be rubbing shoulders of people who are going to walk through what I just preach. You may be sitting and living next to or working beside people that are going to hear these trumpets blow and see all this devastation and live through that hell on this earth And the only hope of escape they've got is somebody saying, Can I tell you about Jesus? Now you you can save them, I've said that already, but know this, you can point them to the one who can And you can tell them you don't have to go that way. You don't have to you don't have to go into judgment. There's a place of escape Years ago I got up to preach one time and my heart started doing weird things and I got I almost got through preaching and I got real sick and one of my deacons took me to the emergency room and My doctor, who was a dear friend, he's an eternity now. I could say things to him. He could say things to me. We we had a good relationship and I I started telling him about what was going on, and he said, I want to say something to you. He said, when the crisis starts, course correction is too late. I said, what do you mean? He said, all right. He said, listen to me. Sometimes he was very frank He said, when you start having a heart attack, it's too late to change your habits. He said, You can say, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do that, I'm gonna change this, I'm gonna change that. Too late, he said. He said, Boy, the alarm went off. Better answer it. Listen , church alarm's going off. The alarm 's going off, can you hear it? Are you loved to sleep with the lies of the devil? Well, preacher, I've heard it my whole life. I'll probably live the rest of my life and never see it. You don't know that, and I don't know that. But what we do know is that God is faithful to keep his word. And what we do know is that the Bible is true. And what we do know is that God will stand to everything He said He'll do. And the day is coming. Hey, the alarm's going off, church. Can you hear it? Before long, this world is going to be enveloped in gross darkness. And the people who have had an opportunity to be saved and have refused to be saved are going to find themselves condemned to hell. the walking the the the dirt of this earth, they're going to be headed to a place called hell. My friend, you and I must be faithful witnesses. God didn't tell you to go change their mind. He didn't go tell you to win their argument. He said go be witnesses for me. Be a witness for me. Bear witness of me. Tell others about me. Point them to me. Let them know that I'll save them. Now, brother, sister, it's the call of God on our lives. And if we've ever been excited and stirred and strengthened about something, let's go after souls Dear friend, listen, you'll see people Monday to Friday. Monday through Sunday. You'll see people as you go about your way, probably far more than you'll see. An hour on a Thursday night visitation. Now it's important. I believe it's important. We ought to be involved. But I'm telling you, if that's all the witnessing you do, you're missing it. There's witnessing you can do when you go down the gas station. There's witnessing you can do when you buy your groceries. There's witnessing you can do when you're out shopping, you bump into somebody, you talk to, hey, there's w there's opportunities everywhere you go. There's wit listen there's opportunity. Roy, you remind me of uh of my barber up in Nova Scotia and I'd prayed for a chance to witness to him. In fact, if he had a twin brother you couldn't I don't know if you have Nova Scotia ties, but You could have a twin brother in Nova Scotia. And and I had prayed for an opportunity. That man he was hard as a nail. He was just He he didn't like religious or religion or anything of that nature. He just seemed to be hateful, and if you brought anything up, man, he'd shut you down a heartbeat. Very intellectual man, very intelligent man And and I I go in there one day and and I'm just not expected, I'll just be honest with you, I wasn't spiritually excited about having an opportunity to share the gospel because I had already figured he was going to shut me up and he wasn't gonna let me talk. And so I took my seat in the chair and and and I'm I'm just sitting there and and really I'm just hoping get this thing done, get me out of here. I got things to do. And I remember, he said, you know, I I saw something on the news. What do you think about that? And I said, What do you mean? What do I think about that? I mean I was slow, it took me a minute. He said, and here's what he said, honestly. He said, Does the Bible say anything about that? And look, he's cutting my hair, he probably cut a zag in it, because I turned and said, Are you serious? Do you want to hear what the Bible says? He said, actually I do. And I had an opportunity to be a witness. The Lord had to smack me around a little, get me in line so I could get it across. But but the point is, when there's witness, there's opportunities to witness everywhere. That's why we ought to be living ready and be ready to give an answer for the reason of the hope that lies within us. We ought to be ready to tell it's Jesus. You say, Well, why have you got hope in a hopeless world? Jesus. What are you looking forward to in seeing all the uh of the catastrophe that's building on the horizon, Jesus? Well you mean you've got peace and hope and joy in the midst Oh yeah, why? It's Jesus. He's the answer, isn't he? Thank God for the Lord Jesus. And we need to be a fruitful soul winner and be witnessing for God while the opportunity comes. Remember this. When the crisis comes, when judgment comes, it'll be too late to correct our course. Friend, but today we live in a day of mercy. As I read this again this afternoon to stir my heart afresh, I thought, God, I thank you that I'm not sitting here waiting on trumpet number two. Fact is, I'm waiting on that trumpet to call me out. I'm not listening for the judgments because of God's grace and mercy. And if the Lord gives you another day and we wake up tomorrow and begin to live another day, we can say, Oh Lord, I want to thank you for another day of grace. And another day of mercy. The trumpets are not about to blow as far as judgment is concerned, or they're they're out there somewhere in the near future. But the reality is God's given me a day of grace. He's given me a day of mercy. Oh Lord, don't let me waste it. Don't let me just throw it off as meaning nothing. Help me, Lord, that I might walk with you and work for you and witness for you And be faithful until you come. See, the revelation is not a curiosity theater. It ought to be a spiritual stimulator to stir us up to live for what's really important. Because I'm going to tell you soon and very soon, that thing you're stressed about right now seems so big and so impossible, is going to mean nothing. And let me ask you tonight, in light of eternity, what's important? In light of eternity, what's important? I'll tell you what's important. Walk with the Lord. Walk with Him every day. It's important, brother and sister, that we work for God. That's important. That's worth it to be rewarded. If you don't want your pile to burn up, as we stand to give an account, Put something in it that's eternal in nature. Let's work for God. And then let's be a witness for God. There just might be somebody in your path this week that you're going to be the last flag that says Jesus. Heaven's that way. He's the way. Let's not miss opportunities. The Lord brings our way. And friend, if you're here or listening to this broadcast and you're not saved, can I challenge you tonight? The reality is your soul needs God's salvation. Jesus paid the price for your sin, paid it all. Paid it in full. You've sinned against God, and that sin has brought God's wrath and judgment. And friend, if you die in that state, you'll be forever separated from him in the lake of fire. But there's mercy being sent your way. There's grace being offered. God's hands are stretched out. He's crying to you tonight. Call upon Jesus Christ and be saved. Christ died for your sin. He was buried. He rose again the third day. And friend, if you'll look to him, if you'll cry out to him, listen, that old thief just hadn't remembered me. He was looking for mercy. Thank God he went to Jesus. If he had gone anywhere else, he wouldn't have found it. But thank God he went to the man who's full of mercy and full of grace and full of compassion. And when he called on him, he saved him. He said, Today you're going to be with me in paradise. Look to him tonight and be saved. You don't have to be sitting in a church house. You don't have to be sitting in a special location. You don't have to posture your body in some proper fashion. The ma man believes with his heart, with the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. Cry out from your innermost being, and listen, you might be driving down the road and can't stop and shut your eyes. You might be working at an old factory somewhere doing some menial task. You could simply just be walking down the street. Let me tell you, the God of heaven will meet you where you're looking for mercy, and he'll save you on the spot. Be saved before it's too late. I pray I'm not reading what you're going to endure because you'll reject Jesus Christ. But the truth is that'll happen for so many. And dear, dear brother, sister, let God stir your heart tonight. I purposed when we started this study, I don't want to set it before you as just a mere biblical curiosity. Something that will arm you to argue with critics, and so I pray God will use it to speak on a spiritual level to our hearts so that we'll be better Christians. Shine brighter for the Lord, walk closer to it, and live our lives in light of the reality that judgment looms on the horizon. And just as God said it, it'll happen. Let's be ready. Let's be ready. Would you stand with me, please? Could I