Chapter number one and I'm going to begin reading in verse number eighteen. In 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse number 18, the Bible says, For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For after that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks foolishness, but unto them which are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. I want you to think with me this morning about this wisdom of God. And the Lord helping me, I want to magnify five words. They're found in verse number 23, but we preach Christ crucified. Heavenly Father, we bow again, asking that in mercy You would do the work needed in all of our hearts. I thank you, Lord, that you see us, know us, love us. Lord, you're working. And we bow to your will and pray that you would undertake for every need. Please save the soul nearest hell. Please stir the believer that has gotten cold and indifferent. Please speak, Lord, like only you can speak, and may it be to your praise and glory. For these few minutes that we have together separate us from the cares and distractions of life. Lord, give us ears to hear what the Spirit saith. And Lord, I pray that we'd have tender hearts to your dealings. Now, Father, we love you, and we can only say that because you loved us first. Help us to understand your wisdom from your word here this morning. And for all that you do, we'll bow our unworthy heads and give you the praise. But we're looking to you in Jesus' strong name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. The wisdom of God is revealed in these verses I just read. Verse number 18, we find the same thing being said as is said in verse 23. For the preaching of the cross. It's just another way of saying we preach Christ crucified. At the heart of Christianity is the crucifixion of the Lord Jesus. You take away the crucifixion and you have no Christianity. If Christ did not die for our sin According to the Word of God, there would be no payment made. There would be no provision provided. There would be no pardon for you and I. We would still be in our sin had Jesus not died on the cross. The wisdom of God is revealed through the preaching of Christ crucified. In verse number 18, it reveals the condition of man's heart. Look what it says. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. What is that to you? What is the preaching of the cross? Is it foolish to you? Does it seem nonsense to you? Does it make no sense to you? If it does, the Bible says, then to them that perish. It's foolishness. It's a revealing wisdom. It reveals what's in man's heart. This Bible and the gospel take the covers off of man's soul. And as the scripture says it so plainly, it makes us naked and open before Him with whom we have to do. And so if the preaching of the cross is foolishness, you need to understand the Bible says you're among those that perish. But it goes on to remind us in verse 18, but unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. There's power in the message of the crucified Christ. There's power for the believer. There's power in our lives as God's people. We're reminded That it is through the cross of Jesus Christ a way has been made for you and I to live again. The power of God We're also told in verse 21, we're talking now about the wisdom of God, the wisdom of God in preaching Christ crucified. In verse number 21, we're told it pleased God. Look at it. For after that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. Do you realize you cannot be educated into salvation? There are a lot of things you can be helped with by education, but salvation's not one of them. You'll never be educated into Christianity. You'll never be educated into a new life. It is a regenerated work. It's a transformative work of God And again it says, the world by wisdom knew not God. Man uh man on his own can't come to God. Man in his own ability, man, man can't say, I'll discover God, like we've discovered certain planets I'll conquer, you know, the truth about God like we would conquer some remote place The Bible says men, but the world by wisdom knew not God. But watch this, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. Now, by the way, the preaching is very specific in this chapter. It's not the foolish preaching. It's not foolishness of preaching about anything. It's the foolishness of preaching the cross of Christ and the crucified Christ that pleases God to save men who believe the message. It's a very specific message. Then we see the wisdom of God is shown here through the preaching of the crucified Christ. Look in verse 24 and 5. But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks. Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God, because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. I want you to see that our Lord here strips away all of man's intelligence in a sense and all of man's boastings and all of man's pride and makes him absolutely, utterly dependent on the work of another. That's why we preach Christ crucified. But I want you to look at those five words, and I want to just point out three very simple things this morning. But we preach Christ crucified. And by way of just an introductive thought, I want you to notice the but here. But, in spite of all that he's already said, but we preach Christ crucified. You notice he said the Jews require a sign. The Jews require a sign. They demand, show me something. Uh they're the first Missourians, you know. Isn't Missouri the show me state? Well they they they said you gotta show us something. Remember they said give us a sign and we'll believe. He said the only sign you'll you'll receive Is that sign of the prophet Jonah? Just as he was three days and three nights in the belly of the whale, so shall the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. They say we require a sign. You know what the Bible says? But we preach Christ crucified. They require, you say, but someone says, but I require a sign. I need more proof. Well, you've got the scriptures. And if the scriptures aren't enough, there's just not enough for you. But we preach Christ crucified. Notice again the contrast here. He says, but the Greeks, look at them, they're a little different. They seek after wisdom. They're the philosophers. We want a philosophy. Give us a new idea. Give us something with a tad bit of humanism. And by the way, I I'm shocked really how much Christianity today has a whole lot of humanism mingled with it. It's a whole lot of me and God, not just God. But we preach Christ crucified We don't cater to the wisdom of men. We don't follow the philosophies of man. Buddha had his philosophy. Muhammad had his philosophy. Confucius. had his and all the other religions of the world have their philosophies. We have Jesus Christ and him crucified. But we preach Christ crucified. I love how Mr. Spurgeon masterfully stated, my entire theology can be condensed into four words. Listen to them now. Jesus died for me My entire theology. And brother and sister, if I can say to you this morning, if your theology requires more than that, you require more than God required. He said, Jesus died for me. I have no other argument. I have no other plea. The hymn writer said, It is enough that Jesus died and that he died for me. It's enough. I want you to notice, but we preach Christ crucified. In the preaching of Christ crucified, here's what we say. Number one, salvation is the work of one. Salvation is the work of one. But we preach Christ. We preach Christ. We don't preach Christ and Baptist. We don't preach Christ and religion. We don't preach Christ and works. We preach Christ. Salvation is the work of one. I want you to notice here, as Paul makes it very clear, the wisdom of God is this as we preach Christ. crucified. There is a person involved, and it is Christ. I look I heard this somewhere this week. I cannot for the life of me remember where I heard it. But I heard this statement made, if my testimony begins with I, I'm already on the wrong foundation. I. I I prayed. I did. I I I. Oh beloved, you've got something bigger than I. You've got Christ. It is Christ whom we've trusted. But we preach Christ crucified. Paul said, we do not preach ourselves Our salvation is not wrapped up in me or you or anything else. The person involved is the Lord Jesus. Salvation is the work of one. Not only do we see the person involved, but we see that God has invested power. If you go back to Acts chapter number 13, God has invested such power in this one I want you to see what was said here. Acts chapter 13. I believe that it is verse number 38. Acts chapter number thirteen and verse number thirty-eight. Listen to what the preacher said. Be it known unto you, therefore, men and brethren. that through this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins. And by him all that believe are justified from all things from which ye could not be justified by the law of Moses. You know what he's saying? He's making it clear that God invested the forgiveness of sin in the person of Jesus Christ. He alone can forgive sin. Remember when he healed the cripple. And the man and and and he initially said that he had forgive his sin. And the man rose up and walked. And they said, you know, who can forgive sin but God? Well, that was a good question because no man but God can forgive sin. He's invested the power of forgiveness in the person of Jesus Christ. Don't think for a minute it's found in penance. It's not found in the Pope. It's not found in the water. It's not found in the church. It's found in Jesus Christ. He alone, and that's why Paul and the apostles and the early believers and all that have followed Christ from that day forward have said through this man We preach the forgiveness of sin. Through the Lord Jesus, only Jesus can forgive you of your sin. So we see the salvation, salvation is the work of one Yes, there's a person involved. Yes, there is power invested. But I want you to notice this. Preaching insists it. It insists that you must be born again. Watch what he said back in verse 21. It says, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. Now I'm going to go out on a limb here and try to at least attempt to make the difference between teaching and preaching. And it's hard to draw the line. I'll be the first to admit where one crosses the other, it's very hard to know. But one thing that is different about preaching from teaching is that preaching insists. It demands. It not only declares, but it demands. What does it demand? That you must be born again. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching what? Christ crucified. When we preach the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ, it demands a verdict. It brings you to a place where you've got to decide yay or nay. It does not leave you in the land of indecision. It it pulls you one way or the other. And my friend, you have got to decide. Is it Christ or me? Is it my way or his way? And listen, it insists. Preaching the crucified Christ insists that you take action. Salvation is the work of one. See, George Whitfield back in his day preached that message He preached that you must be born again. He preached it until he irritated all the church people of his day and they put him out of the pulpits and said, you're not going to preach that here So arrogant had the churches of that day become that they felt they needed not the message of salvation. They were bothered. They were bothered. By the way, if salvation bothers you, you need to be bothered. You need to get born again. And it bothered them and it bothered them to the place they said, I don't want to hear it. We do not want to hear it. And they put Whitfield out of the church. There was not a church in the land that would let him preach. But he I like what he said. He said, Thank God the fields were open to me The fields were open to me, and not only were the fields open to him, but sinners were too. Because they flocked by the thousands to hear the message, you must be born again. Church, salvation is the work of one. Don't confuse it, complicate it, corrupt it. It is not the work of you and God. It's not the work of Works and God. It's not the work of the church and God. It's the work of Jesus Christ and Him alone. We preach Christ crucified. Salvation is the work of one. Whether Paul was preaching to Jews or Gentiles. Whether he was preaching in synagogues or some faraway place, whether he was preaching to heathen, as he called them, idolaters, those that had no idea about the true God. No matter where he preached, what did he preach? Christ crucified. He preached Christ crucified. Because salvation is the work of one. I want you to notice secondly this morning that not only is salvation the work of one, but the suffering of the cross satisfied God. The suffering of the cross satisfied God. We're talking about God's wisdom now. We're talking about that wisdom that God displayed when he said I give my son for your sin. The wisdom of God that that baffles man's mind. It totally blows our mind because you know what man says, Lord, you must need a little help. Man's mind says, but let me do something, let me get involved in some way, let me have some part, so that, and here's the reason our pride says, so that we can feel as if we've contributed. Can I say to you, you've already contributed all that's needed. That's your sin. You and I have contributed our part, and that's sin. And salvation being the work of God was secured by the sufferings of the Lord Jesus on the cross. Go back here or go forward to Colossians with me. Colossians chapter number one. Colossians chapter number one And I want you to see the purpose, as revealed in the scripture here, of the sufferings of Christ. Colossians chapter 1 and verse number 19 says. It pleased the Father that in him, that's Christ, should all fullness dwell. And having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him, that's Jesus, reconcile all things unto himself. By him I say, whether they be things in earth or things in heaven. And you that were sometime alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled. in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and unblameable and unreprovable in his sight. That's the wisdom of God. He has reconciled you unto himself. What's the crucifixion of Christ all about? It's not about Roman soldiers It's not about vindictive Jews. It's not about a man being in the wrong place at the wrong time. It's about reconciliation. On the cross of Christ as Jesus died, he was reconciling fallen man to holy God. He was reaching down with one arm from Calvary. And picking up the lost and reaching up towards heaven and taking hold of the hand of the Father and bringing the two together on the mighty cross of Calvary. Oh, what purpose there was in the suffering of the Lord Jesus. It was a punishment that was inflicted. Have you ever thought about what Jesus prayed there in the garden? Father? Matthew 26, 39, Father. If it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will thine be done? What cup was he speaking of? What cup was he referring to? Well, in the Old Testament, we read of a cup of iniquity. In the Old Testament, we read a cup of wrath. You say, Pastor, what cup? I believe the cup that he referred to was the wrath of God on the sin of man. And listen, as he took that cup, he knew that he would have to drink that to the bitter end, the punishment inflicted God's, I heard someone say recently, God's thunderbolts of wrath fell upon the Savior on the cross. No wonder that the earth responded like she did and darkness covered. No wonder she trembled and shook. No wonder the veil was rent in twenty. No, no wonder, my friend, all of these wonders were accomplished, because here God was reconciling man unto himself, and to do that sin had to be punished. Sins, payment had to be made. Hanging there on the cross, the Lord Jesus is taking the wrath of God. You stop and think about what love that must be, that he would take our place. You know, I look back and think, I've got an older brother. He's more like a dad than a brother. And I remember one time I did something real bad and he took the spanking for it. It was bad enough to get a real good one. You know, some of you just get correction. I didn't get correction. I mean, I got spanking Or should have. And I remember my brother saying, I'll take it. I'll take it. And I thought, man, he must love me. What in the world he I wouldn't take a beating for him. That's my little boy mine. I mean I love him and all, but look, uh you take your own belt. I'm not taking mine. I'll take mine, you take yours. But I'm grateful I've got a Savior. He took my place. The inflicted punishment of God's wrath on man's sin was poured out fully on the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't be such a foolish to think you can pay for your own sin. Don't be so foolish as to think somehow you can reconcile yourself to God. God 's already decreed in his great wisdom that that work's been done at Calvary in the person of Christ through the punishment that was inflicted upon him. There was a penalty exacted on Christ. Romans chapter 6 and verse 23 states very plainly that the wages of sin is death. Death is earned through sin. The penalty that was exacted was placed on Christ. My Bible says he tasted death for every man. He tasted death for every man. Every one of us. He took our place. The penalty was exacted upon him. He's paid it in full. When Christ died on the blessed cross of Calvary, he paid in full the debt that you and I owe. The penalty was completely done. It's finished there on Calvary's Dark Hill. The suffering, the suffering, if you will, of Christ on the cross satisfied God. Way back yonder in Isaiah, let me go back there and read it to you. Isaiah 53. Listen to what was said concerning the Lord Jesus. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. Verse 10 says, Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Verse eleven, he shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. As God inflicted and exacted the payment for sin upon his son He sees that transaction, he sees that work of reconciliation, and he's satisfied. He's so satisfied that he's made a decree that whosoever will may come. That whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. He was so satisfied that the forgiveness of sin is obtained once and for all. Because of the sufferings the Lord Jesus endured on the mighty cross of Calvary. He's satisfied. Are you? Friend, are you satisfied with what God has provided? I remember brother, uh dear brother, used to preach for me. And uh he he we had some folks that had been wrongly taught some things in in the charismatic movement, and Jesus was never enough. They needed more. They always needed something more. They needed a feeling. They needed a high, emotional high. They needed something, some sort of spectacular thing other than Jesus Christ. And I remember Brother Brown Standing in the pulpit, and he said, If Jesus is not enough, nothing ever will be. And friend, if you're not satisfied with what Christ has done on the cross There there's there's nothing else for you. There's nothing else I can say. The truth of the matter is God is satisfied, and that's all that matters. God is satisfied with what Christ did on the cross. It's the only payment He accepts. You ever been in a place and maybe you wanted to pay with cash and they said, We don't accept that here? That's becoming more common, isn't it? And I don't know too many people that carry cash with them anymore. And so you're either looking for an ATM or another business. The only payment God accepts for sin is what Christ did on Calvary. And you and I can't rewrite the rules. We can't renegotiate the terms. It's already settled. And he has declared that he's satisfied. He sees the travail of his soul. He saw the sufferings of Christ. He saw the penalty inflicted and the punishment. And he he he says, I'm satisfied. I'm satisfied. And dear friend, know this. When you come to Christ, He's satisfied. When you're resting in the Lord Jesus, He's satisfied. You say, but I don't feel like it. Throw your feelings out the window. Your feelings don't mean nothing. You say, but I I just it's hard for me to comprehend. Well, it is hard to comprehend. It's the wisdom of God. But the wisdom of God declares that we are well accepted in the beloved. That in Jesus Christ He's satisfied. I'm in Christ and Christ in me. There's nothing else, my friend, that I need. Christ died for my sin. No wonder Mr. Spurgeon said those words. God 's satisfied with it. What Christ did on the cross counted for you. It counted for you. And God is satisfied. He requires nothing else. He requires nothing else. You can't add to it. If you add to it, you're saying something's wrong. If you add to it, you're saying it's not finished, it's not perfect, it's not complete. Religion treads on dangerous ground when it begins to mingle something along with Christ. I fear we live in days where that's so common that we are so audacious to believe that we could add to God's free plan of salvation. And we could say, well, you must do thus and so, or this is required, or that is required. Beloved, listen, God met all of his requirements in Jesus Christ on the cross. He met the requirements. He who knew no sin became sin, that you and I who have no righteousness might receive the righteousness of God in Christ. Number three, but we preach Christ crucified. A singular event saves Notice we preach Christ crucified. We preach the cross. We preach those things because it is number one the plan of God. It's God's plan. Can I say to you this morning that salvation didn't come about because God said, oops. I didn't see man doing that. I mean we often t we I think we think in those terms. We we we talk about a perfect creator and it was, God made all things. And and and and we say, Well, then man sinned and it's like, Now what do we do? No, there was no now what do we do Did we not read in the Revelation that way back yonder before the foundation of the world the Lamb was slain? Before the foundation of the world? Before the mud seals of the earth were ever laid, before this old earth was ever constructed, the Lamb was slain for Calvary on Calvary's cross for sinful souls like you and me. Salvation's not a plan B. It is God's plan. It is the in the heart and mind and wisdom of God. This was God's plan. You say, how do you know? I believe first because of the prophecies that have been fulfilled. The very coming of Christ fulfilled some 300 and 28 were fulfilled on the day he died Psalm 22 describes in such detail the crucifixion centuries before it was ever even invented. And yet you read Psalm 22 and you see the cross and you realize that's Christ hanging there. That's the Lord Jesus suffering in my place. It lets me know that in the mind and heart of God a full and free salvation had already been provided before man ever sinned. How wise and gracious is our God to provide long before the need ever arises. Up north on the trap lines they have caches and their their food caches or their ammunition caches and they store them all through the wilderness. And often it'll be in a barrel. It might be food or it might be another weapon or it might be trapping gear or something to keep them warm or start a fire. And all of those are just in case. Just in case you get so many miles away from safety, you've got some supplies you can count on that will be there. Just in case they're stored in strategic places. It's the just in case in the case of an emergency. But I'm here to tell you that salvation is not a just in case. Salvation is not there in place just in in case of an emergency. Salvation was God's plan all along. Thank God for a Savior who came to make a way for you and me. And then we see the pardon is secured by this singular event. In John 19, 30, we read the final words of the Lord Jesus. The Lord Jesus uttered three little words before he hung his head and died. These words are prophetic words and they're powerful words, but they're words that speak of the pardon he had just secured. Here's the words. It is finished. What loaded what loaded words. I'm telling you say what's finished. I'm glad he didn't say I am finished. He wasn't finished, thank God. Three days later he's going to rise again. But it is finished. It is finished. What's finished? Sin has been paid for The penalty has been exacted. Understand that a pardon has been secured. It is finished. God's holiness has now been satisfied. The wages of sin is death, and Christ died. The righteous for the unrighteous. God demanded a perfect sacrifice. Jesus lived a sinless life. He died that vicarious substitutional death. And my friend, he proved, and someone said that the resurrection is vindication of the reality of what he declared in his crucifixion. It is finished is the pavement. When Christ died, he paid sin 's debt. When he rose again, he produced the receipt and said, See, I told you so. Listen, dear friend, thank God for that singular event that saves. I want you to listen to the words of this old hymn. It's called Oh Happy Day. Third verse says, 'Tis done. The great transaction's done. I am my Lord's, and he is mine. He drew me and I followed on, charmed to confess the voice divine. Happy day, happy day, when Jesus washed my sins away. Aren't you glad, my friend? Listen, it's a singular event. My salvation, and Lord help me here, please. My salvation Didn't start the moment I called on the Lord. He secured it back yonder on Calvary. And what a wonder What a wonder that that he would do such a thing for the likes of us. It's a singular event that secured salvation. Now, friend, listen, if if you think the prayer you prayed got you in, you've got another thing coming. The truth of the matter is, it's not the words you pray, it's the one who saves. We put a lot of emphasis on that. I I'm afraid we live especially in a county that has been uh populated with these Prayer prayers and these center prayer repeaters, and they've said all the right words, but they got the nature of a man who's headed for hell. You're not saved by the power of your lips forming words. You're saved by the blood shed on Calvary's hill. You're shed by the power of Jesus Christ. You're saved by that person who loved you and gave himself for you. You're not, listen, you don't contribute anything save sin. Salvations of the Lord. Oh, dear friend, we need to wrestle from the hands of man what belongs solely in the hands of God. We'd have a purer Christianity, I believe, if we preached some more plain gospel. But we preach Christ crucified. We preach Christ died for my sin. When you pillow your head in death, your sinner's prayer is going to be cold comfort. But your living Savior will usher you across. When you get ready to face God , You'll not face him saying I I I You'll face him saying him. Him. Him. It's him. He's my hope. He's my all. He's my salvation. Oh, I love the words that David Penn, God is my rock. And he's become my salvation. Is he yours? Precious friend If you turn from everything else, your religiosity, your goodness, if you're holding a thread If you're holding a thread of your own righteousness, you have none of his. If you're holding just a mere slender thread Of any of your effort whatsoever, you must be born again. Turn from everything else Abandon it. It's dragging you to hell. Turn to the Lord Jesus alone and cry out To the God of all comfort and the Father of mercies, call upon him who alone can save and watch him do the wonderful work that you could never do in a thousand lifetimes. Trust him today. But we preach Christ crucified. Oh dear Christian, how can we live afar from him who has done so much? How can we live cold towards a God who loves us like that? I mean, He He gave heaven's best. You're not conquered by the whip of judgment. You're drawn by the cords of love. You're wooed by that consolation that's in Christ. Your heart's been won. He's the Lord of love. We sing about. Come close to him. Preacher, I failed him. Well, beloved He knew that and made a way. He made a way because he says if we confess our sin, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. He's a God of mercy. And he's such a God of mercy that they're new every morning according to the Bible. Come near him. Just come near him. And oh dear friend, if you don't know him this morning, I just want to say one more time, I highly recommend him. He's hell's only escape. He's your sin 's only solution. And he's your soul's only savior. Trust him. Would you stand with me, please? Brother Dow, would you come with our hymn?