The only good thing in us is the Lord Jesus, isn't it? Appreciate that song. I want you to turn with me to Romans chapter two. And I'm going to read a portion of this chapter, Romans chapter number two. Starting in verse number one, we'll read down to verse number 11 this morning. Romans chapter number two, and when you find your place, I'll invite you to stand with me, please. Romans chapter two and verse Number one, therefore, thou art inexcusable, O man Whosoever thou art that judgest. For wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself. For thou that judgest doest the same things. But we are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth against them which commit such things. And thinkest thou this, O man, that judges them which do such things and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? But after thy hardness and impenitent heart, treasurest up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. Who will render to every man according to his deeds, to them who by patient continuance and well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, eternal life But unto them that are contentious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation, and wrath, tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man that doeth evil Of the Jew first, and also of the Gentile. But glory, honor, and peace to every man that worketh good To the Jew first and also to the Gentile. For there is no respect of persons with God. To understand the book of Romans, I think you have to read it with the idea of a courtroom scene. Man's soul is before the bar of God, before the law of God, and is being put on trial. And in this chapter that we've just read, we find an interrogation of sorts. God is making clear that his judgments are true and right and righteous. But there's something I want to magnify this morning in one verse, verse number four, and that is this goodness of God. Look what he says. He asks the question despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? Father, would you help us this morning as we quietly sit and wait before you with an open Bible in heart? I pray, Lord, that you would search us and Lord see truly what we need And I pray, Father, you'd meet the great need of every heart in this place, and we'll praise you for it, because Lord, we realize what all of us need here today has got to come from you. And so we look to you now and we thank you. Hide me behind the cross, Lord, and help me to lift up Jesus. And have your way in this place, and we'll give you the glory for what you do. For we pray in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. There's a lot being said in these eleven verses, and again you've got to read them in light of a courtroom setting. The Lord's interrogating man here. He's asking questions that need to be answered and and uh he's showing us things that we need to see and He asked this question about God's goodness. And the question is, will you despise the goodness of God? Now Stop just a minute and think about what that means. That word despise simply means to scorn or make light of. It means to make of little value, to brush off, to reject. Paul here in the book of Romans says, Will you do that to the goodness of God? Will you despise the goodness of God in your life? And then he points out what goodness is. And he says, first, notice this, the riches of his goodness. The riches of his goodness. Now, when you read the riches of his goodness, understand he's talking about those material, tangible blessings that come from the Lord. You realize this morning that we all are partakers of the goodness of God. We breathe God's air. We eat God's food. We drink God's water. We live on God's earth. That's the riches of the goodness of God. Add to that the blessings that come, and again, as James reminds us, that every good and perfect gift comes from above. Every good thing in your life is a gift from God. It's the riches of His goodness on display You say, preacher, I've done quite well in life, and that's a good thing. But may I remind you that your doing well is a gift from God? It's the goodness of God. No man has wealth. There's no self-made people. There may be hardworking people and people who've applied themselves, but the truth is that we would have nothing were it not for the Lord. He's the giver of all good things that comes from him. And so the riches of his goodness. Then he uses another word and says, forbearance. Forbearance is the exercise of patience. God is patient. I know that because we're all still here. God is patient. God exercises his patience, and you and I live today on the very patience of the Lord. I believe that in this nation, I I'm telling you, we've for generation after generation uh sort of uh uh thumbed our nose in the face of God. We've This world is full of iniquity, and the only reason God hasn't destroyed it is because of his forbearance. God's exercising great patience. Then I want you to notice another statement here. He says, and long-suffering. Long-suffering is the statement, or the meaning behind that is that it's not easily provoked. God is not an easily provoked God. I read the story of a man who stood in a meeting, and as the preacher was trying to tell the people the gospel, he stood up And he began to say, If there's a God, strike me with lightning. And this was in the days when Thomas Paine and the infidel clubs would infiltrate churches and try to disrupt meetings and this man very proudly said, see, there is no God. The preacher very wisely said, Sir, you've proved just the opposite. You've proved that God is very long-suffering, for had He struck you dead, you would be in hell right now. God is long suffering. He is not easily provoked. All of this combined, Paul just calls it the goodness of God. the riches of his goodness, his uh long-suffering, his forbearance. He just simply uh concludes by saying that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance What does God's goodness meant to do? God's goodness is meant to bring me to a place where I'll turn from my sin and my rebellion. And turn from my ungodliness and trust the Lord Jesus. That's what God's goodness is intended for. The psalmist said that the whole earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. And listen, friend, no matter what may be happening or going on in your life, every one of us here today can say we are recipients of the goodness of God. And God's goodness is meant to turn us to that ultimate act of goodness. And I'll say more about this later, but when Jesus Christ died on the cross of Calvary, and shed his blood for sinners like you and me. He demonstrated his highest goodness in giving himself for a bunch of people who need to be saved by the grace of God. That is goodness uh embodied and enshrined, if you will, on the mighty cross of Calvary. So to understand this this morning, I want to point out three instances of the goodness of God. Three places in the Bible I think the goodness of God is clearly, clearly painted. Would you go with me first to the Gospel of Luke? Luke chapter 16. And I'd like to start reading in verse number 19, and when you get there, you'll say, Oh, I know that. And by the way, what I'm reading is not a parable. I'm reading something that actually happened, and the Lord let us know what happened here between this rich man and Lazarus. Luke chapter 16 And verse number 19 says, There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day. There was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate full of sores, and desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores. And it came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried, and in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in this flame. But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivest, watch this, thy good things. And likewise Lazarus evil things. But now he is comforted, and thou art tormented. And beside all this, between us and you there's a great gulf fixed. So that they which would pass from hence to you cannot, neither can they pass to us that would come from thence The rich man is a picture of the goodness of God despised. You say, preacher, in what way? How was God good? to that rich man. Well, number one, he was good to him because he lived in abundance. Look what it says, that he was clothed, verse 19, in purple and fine linen. Purple and fine linen were the garments of people who were very wealthy. Here was a man who had all that a man could want. It was a man who was wealthy, but by the way, he was rich in this life, but he was poor in eternity. He really is the rich, poor man. You see, we look at Lazarus, we think how awful to live all those years with sores and with sickness and with suffering like that at the gate of the rich man, but in reality we ought to feel sorry For the rich man who lived so wealthy and died in such poverty, because in hell he lifted up his eyes Not only did he live in abundance, but he fared sumptuously. That word just simply means he lived expensive. If we were country folk around here, we would say he lived high on the hog. That's how he lived. He fared sumptuously. Here is the man that, I'm telling you, he's like the psalmist , the man the psalmist described, that his eyes stood out with fatness, and he had all that heart could wish. I mean he's just doing he's living it up. He's living the good life. Many people might have looked at this rich man and envied his status in life. Many people might have said, Look at this man. He's just sort of born with a silver spoon in his mouth. But I promise you that when he closed his eyes in death, no thinking man is going to envy where he went. You'll notice he had another token of God's goodness. Not only did he live in abundance, and he fared sumptuously, But he had a living witness at his gate. Now I've never really seen this before until I was reading through here and noticed that the rich man asked specifically for Lazarus. That tells me he knew who he was. He cared enough, or at least stopped long enough, to talk to this man and to know his first name. Now you can't tell me that this man Lazarus, who was a child of God, we would say in this dispensation, he's a saved man. Here's a child of God. Lazarus was a saved man, or else he wouldn't have gone to paradise where he went. And you can't tell me that he did not say to that rich man every once in a while, you need to trust the Lord. Don't put your trust in uncertain riches. You need to be born again. And don't you know that men being what men are, that when that rich man walked by, he sort of scorned the witness at his gate. Why? Because he's a beggar He probably thought, who's he to tell me anything? Because I am a rich man and you are a beggar Perhaps he said, I can't learn anything from you. Look at my status in life. Look at my position in life. You're just You're a a sick beggar who lays here every day, and the only comfort you get are the dogs who come and lick your sores. You know sometimes we put too much emphasis on the packaging than we do the content. Solomon wrote in Ecclesiastes that he had seen princes on foot and servants on horseback. So what are you talking about? He said there's a lot of people in places they don't have the character to uphold. There are people that have positions, but they don't really possess nothing more than that. Now think about this. Here is a man, a rich man, who God was good to all the days of his life He demonstrated, God demonstrated his goodness. God helped him and he lived. He fared sumptuously. He lived in abundance and he had the continual witness. Of this man named Lazarus, and he despised the goodness of God, and he ended up in hell. Years ago, Buddy Robinson, the old Nazarene preacher, got a burden for a rich community, a wealthy community, and he put his little gospel tent up on the outskirts. And started going door to door in that community. He walked up to a big fine home, a mansion-like home, and knocked on the door, and the maid answered and said, Can I help you? And he, uh, again, Uncle Buddy was just a country man, a country preacher, not educated. He was uh had a a terrible speech impediment He said, I'm I I I I want to meet the uh the the man or woman of the house and he struggled to say those words. And she thought him to be somebody looking for food or handout and She offered him something. He said, no, no, no, no. I'm here to tell you something. I'm here to speak. And she graciously went and got the lady of the house. And she heard him begin to speak, and she said, Get out of here. She she began to ridicule him, mock him for the way he talked. mocking for the way he looked and she said, I I don't wanna I don't want to hear that and she slammed the door and Uncle Buddy turned around and he sat down on the porch His heart was so broke over this woman who was so wealthy and yet so poor that he began to cry for her soul right on her front porch. She said later in her testimony that he cried so loudly she felt bad and she opened the door and went back out and said, Sir, please just go away. Stop your crying. And he said, But I've got something important to tell you. And she not wanting to cause the scene in the neighborhood invited him in, and he began to tell her of Christ. And she said, Listen, I'm I have a uh a good standing in this community. I'm well respected. I I'm I go to the uh it was a religious organization down the way She said, I'm okay, I'm okay. And Uncle Buddy pled with her, you're not okay. And he tried to get her to come to the tent meeting. Finally, she said, I'll think about it, and she dismissed Uncle Buddy, and he said that whole community was much the same way. That reception was repeated over and over again How hard it is sometimes for people with real positions in life to take the truth As it is in the Word of God. Sometimes that we get the thinking that we're beyond all of that, and we don't we don't necessarily need that Uncle Buddy said he began to preach, and he said, I believe it was the second night of the tent meeting. This lady came in purposefully late, sit in the back, hoping no one would recognize her. But she was strangely drawn to the message that he preached. He he said she came back another night and another night and another night, and it wasn't long, he said, till she put her faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and God saved. Now that rich man despised the goodness of God and ended up in hell. That rich woman did not despise the goodness of God and came to the place that she accepted the truth. As it is in Jesus Christ and got born again, and thank God went to heaven when she died. I'm telling you, God's goodness is on purpose. He makes it rain on the just and the unjust. Why? To turn men to himself. Think with me of this second instance. We'll have to go over to 1 Peter for just a minute, chapter 3. 1 Peter chapter 3 and verse, well, for sake of time, let me read one verse, verse 20. 1 Peter chapter number 3 and verse number 20. The Bible says which sometimes were disobedient When once, here's this word again that's associated with the goodness of God, the long-suffering of God Waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls were saved by water. The goodness of God to the people in Noah's day. Now, when you go back and read in Genesis six and seven and eight, you'll read about a people who God said that their imaginations were evil continually. These folks couldn't think without thinking evil. In fact, it was so displeasing and disgusting to God That he pronounced that he would put judgment, he would pour judgment upon the earth and destroy the world with a flood. How bad must of that crowd been But may I remind you that our Lord said, as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it also be in the days of the coming of the Son of Man. That it's going to get very similar in evil and wickedness, and I think we're rapidly going that way. But you stop and think about the goodness of God to these people If we understand right from what the Bible teaches, Noah was at least 75 years building the Ark. It could be as much as a hundred, some believe, but to be conservative, we might we would say seventy-five. Seventy-five years in our day is a lifetime. God was good to these people for 75 years. Rising up out of the earth is the construction of this art, the building of this thing that was to be the rescue mechanism for everybody on earth. Who would get in? You were not saved by simply staring at it. You didn't get saved by walking by and rubbing it. You didn't get saved saying, I believe that it's going to work. You got saved if you got on it. You had to get in the ark. And the Bible says only eight of them got on the ark. And that ark, as it began to grow and be built, that magnificent structure was a testimony to the goodness of God. Every day that ark said there's a way to escape coming judgment. That ark is a picture of Jesus Christ. It's a picture of the cross he died upon. It's a picture of the work that he did on our behalf. It stands for time and eternity as a testimony there's a way to escape judgment. There's a way to escape hell. You don't have to go to hell. Jesus has made a way for you to be saved. Then the Bible says the preaching of Noah was another token of God's goodness. Peter calls him over in 2 Peter 2 verse 5 a preacher of righteousness. That means, and by the way, that word means a proclaimer, that means that he did more than build an ark, he preached as he built. As Noah was building the ark, I'm sure some come along and said, What are you doing? I'm building an ark. What are you building an ark for? God said he's sending judgment. What is the judgment? He's going to destroy the earth by water. What are we to do? How do we get by? How do we escape this coming judgment? You get on the ark. He preached righteousness, he preached righteousness, and for at least 75 years Noah built and preached, he built and preached, he preached this righteousness and said, there's a way of escape, get on the ark, there's a way to get out Get on the ark. And you know something? The preaching of Jesus Christ is a demonstration of the goodness of God. Do you know something you can sit on the pew of Marinatha Baptist Church and still die and go to hell? You can sit right here. Church is as good a place to go to hell from as anywhere else. But oh, to hear the goodness of God. God's telling the people through Noah that this judgment is coming. You ever thought about this? The gathering of the animals was a token of the goodness of God The uh people who study this sort of thing tell us there's about fourteen hundred kinds of animals that would be the families, the broad uh classification of family. Some fourteen hundred. And so if Noah took two, male female of of every kind, And of some, the clean animals, he was to take seven of every kind. That would be about seven thousand animals Of what we know is extinct and currently living. That would be a little over 7,000 animals who showed up at the ark. Now folks, please hear me this morning. Um I imagine there were some people who lived down on Main Street just past where Noah built the Ark. Can you imagine seeing something walk by you've never seen before? And it's on the way to the ark? Nobody's leading it. Nobody's got a lasso around its neck. Nobody's herding it. It's just going to the ark. And it's got its mate, the male, the female, they're going along, going to the ark? Hey, animals , these gathering of animals is an indication of the goodness of God. They tell me that in places, there's some islands. I was reading where an earthquake had taken place, and all the animals evacuated The birds flew away. The land animals went up to uh higher ground that happened during the tsunami, and they did it long before people knew what was going on. I don't know about you, but if I go out here this morning and all of a sudden all the white-tailed deer, all of the skunks and all of the possums and all the raccoons and All the other varmits that live around here and all the birds are heading that way down the neck. If you've got good sense, you might get behind them and go that way too. You may not know what they're going after, but they're not running from nothing. What I'm trying to say is all these animals marching their way to the ark was a token of God's goodness. Had men not been so impenitent in their heart and hard and evil and wicked, they would have said those animals know something's about to happen. Look where those animals are going. They talk about dumb animals. I don't know. I've never the Lord's never blessed me with a smart pet, but I do know there are some that exist. The Lord has always given us mentally challenged pets. And we've had to love them, special as they were, and are, I should say, special as they are. But the truth of the matter is, these animals knew God. You say, how 'd they get there? God put it in their heart. You tell me how these hummingbirds fly some 2,000 plus miles A and and and to get away from the cold and and live and then come right back to the exact same place and they don't have GPS or iPhone They've got something in them God put there. God does that. And God did that for these animals. And these animals as they marched along the streets around Noah's uh community and made their way to the ark. We're saying there's a way to escape. You don't have to die. In the flood, there's safety, there's a refuge yonder in that ark. Please hear me, please, this morning. There's safety in the Lord Jesus Christ. There's a refuge to be had in him. You you say, Preacher, but I'm a good church member. I've prayed my prayers. I do this, that and the other. Oh, run from all of that. That will be destroyed like every other evil unwill un godly and unrighteous thing. Run to Jesus Christ. There's the refuge of safety. There's the ark of salvation in Christ and Christ alone. Then I notice something here reading this account again, that in Genesis chapter 7, when the animals had gathered, and Noah and his family had gathered, The Bible says that God said, yet within seven days. So not only had God waited some 75 years, but he tax on another seven days. He opens another window of mercy right at the very end. That's the goodness of God God could have very easily said, the animals are wrong, no one and his family are wrong, shut the door, it's over, the rain's coming. But God gave them seven more days as they witnessed this strange occurrence right in front of their very eyes. Seven more days to repent. Seven more days. to run to the ark of safety, seven more days to flee to the refuge from the wrath to come. And yet we read in Peter that only eight souls, eight souls. Got on board. Only eight souls were saved. Oh dear friend, the goodness of God don't despise it. Don't despise the goodness of God. If you turn away the goodness of God, you turn away the only hope you've got. If you take the goodness of God and do not repent for over it and do not recognize the reason for it, the Bible says There's no escape. There's no escaping the judgment of God. Can I give you one more instance? Go over here to Luke with me. Luke chapter number twenty three, and I'll read just verse thirty four. Jesus is hanging on the cross. Two outlaws are being crucified with him, malefactors, the Bible calls him. Four soldiers gamble at his feet. Look at verse 34. Then said Jesus, Father. He's praying now. He's praying for that crowd that's all around him. He's praying for the gambling soldiers. He's praying for the denying uh malefactors, he's praying for the religious mob that are mad with bloodthirst. Father, forgive them, but they know not what they do. Do you see the goodness of God in that? Here is the Son of God who who gave life and breath to every creature, and he's saying, Forgive them, Father. Here they are gambling and mocking and cursing and crying, His blood be on us. They're bloodthirsty. They want to see Him die. They want to see Him suffer. And they're crying out. And He says, Lord Father, forgive them. Have mercy on them. That's goodness. The goodness of God was demonstrated on this hill called Calvary Not only do we see God's goodness in this plea, but we see God's goodness in the demonstration of things happening on that mountain. Remember, the Bible says that the earth went dark. These soldiers had watched many many men die on this hill. They had shed a lot of blood up there, and a lot of people had been crucified, but on this day God turned the lights out. Not only did he turn the lights out, but the Bible says the earth did quake. And here's a strange word: the rocks were rent. That means they were torn with great power. Took God's power. Hey, I remember years ago seeing an evangelist, so Percy Ray, he would take a phone book and tear it in half. Some of you told me about a man that used to do that too. Take a phone book. Now, I guess they don't hardly give out phone books anymore. We get one every once in a while for business purposes at the church. But uh some of you remember the day of the phone book. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Remember phone books? Okay. Just making sure And so they would take the and and I'll tell you, he'd take his big old hands. He had the biggest head you ever seen, and he'd take it like that, and he would tear that thing in half. That took some power. Our God tore rocks into. He rent the rocks. There was such power demonstrated. And by the way, let me remind you something that all of this was not a display uh for for the cause of awe and wonder or the display for mere entertainment. This was a display of God's goodness saying, here dies a man who's like no other man Here is one who's giving his life, who's the very son of God himself. In fact, one man out of that whole mob recognized it. Matthew tells us that one of those soldiers who were who was there taking part in the gambling, taking part in the mocking, taking part in all of the activities around the cross looked up after he died and said, Truly this man was the son of God. I believe with all of my heart we'll see that man in heaven. I believe that man got saved at that moment because he saw the goodness of God. He recognized God's doing something here. This is an innocent man dying for the guilty This is the Son of God dying for the created man. Oh, listen, what goodness was demonstrated on Mount Calvary. Now, friend, God's been good to you. It may be that you've lived your life and You've lived it well. You've enjoyed a lot of blessings from God. The fact is, the poorest among us are quite wealthy in comparison to most of the world. God has been good to you. The goodness of God has put air in your lungs. God has maybe even spared your life on occasion. It may be you stood at death's door with some ailment or stood at death's door with some physical injury and you nearly made the crossing over, but God in his goodness spared you. I say he spared you because had you died as you are, you would be like the rich man in hell. God's goodness has kept you alive. You are sitting here drawing air into your lungs. Your little heart's beating, circulating blood through your veins, simply because God's good to you, and if you're not saved, God's simply keeping you out of hell. Understand this morning that the goodness of God has been demonstrated. You may have grown up in church and know the gospel forwards backwards and every which way you could tell it, and yet you're still not saved, and the very facts you're not in hell is the goodness of God. It may be you've heard the gospel message again and again and again and again and yet your heart's grown hard and you've not repented and you've not turned to Jesus Christ. And I'm telling you, friend, God's just simply given you one more chance to God is being good to you. God is showing his goodness because that's who he is. That's what he does. He's a good God. He provided a savior. He made a way to escape He's given his blood to wash your sin away. He's made it possible for lost sinners to go to God's good heaven. He can do for you what nobody else can do. Do not despise the goodness of God Paul said to these Roman peoples , despisest thou the goodness of God? Do you think you can escape despising that? Do you think there's going to be another way made just for you? Do you think that there's going to be hope? If you don't turn to Christ, may I say to you as solemnly as I know how this morning, there is no hope outside of Jesus There is no salvation apart from him. There is no place to escape. There's no rescue. There's no life. There's no eternity. There's no heaven save through the Lord Jesus Christ. My friend, what have you done with the goodness of God? As we sit here this morning, perhaps we're saved, and we say, I know Christ is my Savior. Can I remind you, we're saved by the goodness of God? It's a humbling thought that he would take in the likes of us. The primitive quartet deer men back where I come from grew up not far down the road from where I grew up. They sing a song, they kind of talk through it and tell the story of the little orphan boy. He's out trying to sell some papers on a cold winter's night and Freezing is doesn't have proper shoes or a good coat. We know something about cold and nasty weather here, don't we now? Seem like we've had it since June of last year or something. I don't know. It's been a long one. And I'll tell you, imagine being homeless, having nowhere to go That little fellow had no coat to wrap around his shoulders, no food to put in his little empty belly. He met a policeman who was a Christian. He said, Let me tell you, young man. He said, there's a place down the way. If you'll go knock on that door and say John 3 16, he said, they 'll take you in. That little fella hurried off and made his way down the street, knocked on the door of this great big palatia-looking place, and A very kind woman came to the door and he said, John 3. 16. She said, Why come on in here? She brought him in and set him by the fire and put a blanket around his little cold body She quickly made him a a little uh bowl of warm soup, and he began to enjoy that, and he sat there and he thought, John 3. 16. I don't know what it means, but it sure makes a cold boy warm and a hungry boy full. It wasn't long until she said, Are you are you finished? Have you had enough? He said, Yes, thank you She took him up, put him in a room, said this is your room. He lay down on a uh a very nice warm bed, soft bed. As he lay there and dripped off to sleep, he said, John 3. 16. I don't know what that means, but it sure makes a tired boy rest. And he went to sleep He got up the next morning to the smell of a uh of a breakfast by that that was fit for a king, made his way down the stairs and sat at the table and enjoyed a good meal and said John 3, 16. I don't know what that means, but I'll tell you, it sure satisfies a boy like nothing else can. After he had finished his breakfast, the dear lady took a chair and sat beside him and said, Young man, do you know what John 3. 16 means? He said, No. I've been thinking about it ever since I knocked on the door She read John 3. 16 from her Bible. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Can you imagine as he heard that for the very first time? She said, young man, just like John 3. 16, took care of your temporal needs. You've got an eternal concern that's far greater. Your soul is lost and you need to be saved. Your sins need to be forgiven. And the answer is still John 3. 16 Jesus will save you. He died and shed his blood to forgive you. And right there beside that breakfast table, he bowed his little head. And asked the Lord Jesus to save him. And then he said these words, John 3. 16. I may not understand it all, but it sure makes a lost boy saved Aren't you glad there's salvation this morning? It is by the goodness of God. Nobody's going to heaven because you belong to this church. Nobody's going to heaven because you belong to some other denomination. Nobody's going to heaven because you're good, moral, upstanding, wealthy, have a high position in society. The only way anybody's going to heaven, the only reason any of us around here are going to heaven is because Christ died for our sin. He was buried and rose again the third day. Oh, hear me, friend. Jesus saves. Jesus saves. He's what you need and what I need. And the goodness of God is demonstrated. Now my question to you as we close this meeting. Is will you despise the goodness of God? Will you brush it off like it means nothing and is of no value? Or will you repent and trust Christ to be your Savior? Oh, He'll take anybody in who will come lost Hopeless. Helpless. You can't pay your way in. But you turn to Christ, He'll take you in. Freely. He'll give you the gift of eternal life. Would you stand with me please and if God's dealt with your heart, would you find a place of prayer in this altar