Well, it's good to be in God's house tonight. And it's great to be saved. Amen. Greatest thing in all the world. If you have your Bibles turned with me to Genesis chapter 32. Genesis chapter number 32. Trust everyone had had a good Thanksgiving. Of course, every day is Thanksgiving Day for For God's people. But it was a special day on Thursday. And a special time we had Tuesday night with the testimony meeting. What a great, what a great testimony meeting that was Genesis chapter number 32. I want to read this whole chapter. I think it's important to read it all. And so we begin in verse 1. It says, and Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him. And when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's host, and he called the name of that place Maanam. And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother into the land of Seir, the country of Edom And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall you speak unto my lord Esau. Thy servant Jacob saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban and stayed there until now, and I have oxen and asses, flocks, and men's servants, and women's servants. And I have sent to tell my Lord that I may find grace in thy sight. And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy brother Esau, and also he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men with him. Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed, and he divided the people that was with him, and the flocks and the herds and the camels into two bands. And he said, if Esau come to the one company and smite it, then the other company which is left shall escape. And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac. The Lord which says to me, Return to thy country, and to thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee. I'm not worthy of the least of all thy mercies, and of all the truth which thou hast shown to thy servant For with my staff I passed over this Jordan, and now I become two bands. Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau, for I fear him. Lest he will come and smite me and the mother with the children. And thou says I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude. And he lost there that same night and took of that which came to his hand, a present for Esau, his brother. Two hundred she -goats. 20 he-goats, 200 ewes, 20 rams, 30 milk camels with their colts, 40 kine, 10 bulls, 20 she -asses, and ten foals. He delivered them into the hand of his servants, every drove by themselves, and said unto his servants, Pass over before me. Put a space between betwixt drove and drove. And he commanded the foremost saying, When he saw my brother meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose art thou? And whither goest thou? And whose are these before thee? Then thou shalt say to thee, these be thy servant Jacob's. There's a present sent unto my lord Esau. Behold, also he is behind us. And so commanded he the second and the third, and all that followed the drove, saying, On this manner shall you speak unto Esau when you find him. And say ye moreover, behold, thy servant Jacob is behind us. For ye said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me. And after I will see his face, peradventure he will accept of me. So went the peasant over before him, and himself lodged that night in the company. And he arose up that night, took his two wives and his two women's servants. his eleven sons, and passed over the Ford Jabbak. He took them and sent them over the brook and sent over that he had. And Jacob was left alone, and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. When he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh, and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint as he wrestled with him. And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. He said, I'll not let thee go except thou bless me. He said to him, What's thy name? And he said, Jacob. He said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel For as a prince hast thou power with God and with men and hast prevailed. Jacob asked him and said, Tell me, I pray thee thy name. And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he blessed him there. And Jacob called the name of the place, Peniel, for he said, I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved. He passed over Penuel, as he passed over Penuel, the sun rose upon him, and he halted upon his thigh. Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh unto this day, because he touched a hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that shrank. I want to bring a message tonight on the deceiver who became a prince. Let's bow for prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you for this privilege we have to be in the house of God tonight. Lord, we thank you for most of all the wonderful gift of salvation, precious blood of our Lord Jesus Christ that we shed on Calvary for our sins. And Lord, we we rejoice. That we can gather together in this place to open your word , Lord, to allow you to speak to our hearts, to fellowship one with another, to worship thee in Spirit and the truth. And Lord, I pray that as we consider your word tonight, I pray that you would speak to our hearts. Pray the Holy Spirit would have his way in our hearts and lives this night. Lord, you know the needs of everyone gathered here. You know the needs of all those listening by means of radio. If there be any who have never trusted Jesus as their Savior, I pray they do that tonight. Come to know the wonderful joy of salvation. Then, Lord, as Christians, do a work in our hearts. Draw us near to yourself, revive us. Lord, help us. We need thee in these last days, in these times in which we live And Lord, we just commit ourselves into your watch care now. In Jesus' wonderful name for its sake we ask it. Amen. The deceiver that became a prince. You know, when we go back a ways, we find that Jacob and Esau were the twin sons of Isaac and Rebekah. Esau is the older of the twins. Not told exactly how much, probably maybe just by minutes, but he's the older of the two. And uh the eldest son in those times was to receive the lion's share of the family inheritance. And also in this case, he would receive the covenant promises that were given to Abraham. You know, you go back to Genesis chapter 12. You find the Abrahamic covenant there where God said, I'll bless thee. I will make your name great. I'll bless him that bless thee, I'll curse him that curseth thee, and thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. That last part really is really referring to the coming of the Messiah. And so those covenant promises were to be passed down from father to son. Abraham passed those down to his son Isaac. And Isaac was going to pass those promises down to Esau, because Esau wasn't aligned for that. Well one day Esau came out of the field, he'd been on a hunting trip and he hadn't got anything. Anybody identified with that? That happens sometimes. He didn't he didn't get anything And he came back home, and Jacob is cooking soup. And Esau said, I'm about to die. Give me some of that red pottage. Well, you know, sometimes we say things like that. We've all said probably, you know, I'm so hungry I could eat a horse. We didn't mean that literally. It just means we were hungry, right? And so Esau said, give me some of that red pottage. I'm about to die. Well, you know, Jacob's name means supplanter or conniver. And he lived up to his name most of his life. And so he's conniving here and he said to Esau, Sell me your birthright and you have some of this soup. Now, although Jacob was not in line for the birthright, he he valued it. He knew it was worth something. Esau said, What good shall this birthright do to me? He sold him his birthright. Think about this now. Here's Jacob, who's not in line for it, but he valued it. Here's Esau who wasn't lying for it, but wasn't anything worth more to him than a bullsuit. There's another message there. I'm not going to preach that tonight. But there are lots of folks who really count their birthright just about the same. Well, he sold his birthright to Jacob. Time passes. Isaac's getting older. His vision has dimmed, the Bible says, and he knows he's about to die. And he wants to pass on the blessing to Esau. So he tells Esau, make some of that savory meat, venison, that I like. Special recipe he had, I guess. And I'll pass the blessing on. Well, Esau goes on a hunting trip. He goes out to find it. While he's gone, Rebekah has been listening to all this. You know, one of the things that turns up here, and it's a bad thing, and that's favoritism in a family. Esau was his father's favorite. Jacob was his mother's favorite. And so, you know, Isaac's kind of looking out for Esau, but Rebecca's looking out for Jacob. So she's listened to this conversation, and she knows Jacob's interested in that birthright, and she tells him, look Let's dress you in Esau's clothes. Let's get some skins and put them on the back of your neck and on your hands so you'll feel hairy And we'll take you into your father with some savory meat that she eat. She knew what the recipe was. And so she took him in to East to Isaac, and it worked. Isaac believed that this was actually his son Esau, and he pronounced the blessing on Jacob instead. Couldn't reverse it. You know later on Esau came in. He couldn't reverse it. It's all I've been done. Well, when Esau came in, of course he hit the ceiling. Is not my brother named Suplanter? Bought my birthright and now he's robbed me of the blessing. So he plots he plots to kill Jacob. Rebecca says to her husband, Isaiah, don't you think it's about time that Jacob got married? I think he needs to leave the country. Let's send him back to Pata and Aram where I came from and see if he can find a wife. So they pack him up and send him back to Pata and Aram. So he comes to the home of Laban. That's Rebecca's brother. There he meets Rachel. And uh as things would happen. You know what you heard that saying, what goes around comes around? You know, Jacob had been deceiving his father. Well, he gets deceived. Because Laban gives him Leah to wife instead of Rachel, doesn't he? So he what goes around comes around. Well, he stays there in Paiden Aaron for 20 years, you know, working with Lathan. And God blesses him. You know, he's accumulated all these flocks and herds as we read about here. You know, a great, great number of this is all their wealth was measured in their animals. So he gains all this while he's there and paid near him. Twenty years go by. Things deteriorate between him and Laban. And God speaks to Jacob and tells him, go back to your homeland. It's time for you to leave here. Go back to your homeland. So that's where we find them when we pick up here in chapter 32. He's on his way back to Canaan. It says that the angels of God met him in the way. Kind of a seal that he's doing the right thing now. He's doing what God told him to do and going back. And but he's afraid to meet his brother Stands to reason. I've often wondered if maybe during that twenty year period if he had some nightmares. Waking up and thinking he saw his brother there with a knife standing over him. I don't know But I know this had been on his conscience all that time. So, Ever the Kniver He comes up with a plan, doesn't he? He says we're we'll divide this group into two different uh units. If if my brother takes the one, maybe the other one will escape, okay So he plans to do that. And then of course we have this prayer recorded there in verses 9 to 12. Well, it comes up with another plan. Let's take these animals and let's divide them up into groups. And we'll send them in one group at a time with a space between. Now there's a lot of animals he mentions here. And he says, all this is to maybe appease my brother. Uh maybe when my brother gets this, maybe he'll be appeased. So that's his plan. Well Finally, we get down to verse number 21. It says he uh the present went over before him. He lost himself that night in the company. And he rose up that night, took his two wives, his two younger, two women's servants, his eleven sons, and passed over the four Jabbok. Now I want you to notice first of all here the significance of this place, Jabbok, because Jabbuk means emptying. This is the place of emptying Jacob been running his life all this time, hasn't he? By nature, uh, we want to run our lives, don't we? By nature, we want to call the shots. And before we got saved, we did exactly that, didn't we? The thing is, after we get saved We're going to let God take control. We are bought with a price, right? We're not our own. We don't belong to ourselves anymore. But somehow that doesn't sink in a lot of times with us. And Jacob, even though he's, look He's a saved man. He serves the Lord, but he's been running his own life all this time. And he he's the man that always has a plan. He's always got a plan. And now he's running out of plans. And he's come to this place of emptying, which is the Brook Jabak. You know, if God can get us to that place, He can do something with us. Um even though we're saved, a lot of times, we still want to do things our way, don't we? But his ways are higher than our ways, his thoughts are higher than our thoughts. He wants to work through us. He wants to have his will. But that's where the rub comes, because lots of times what we want to do and what God wants us to do , two different things. Jacob's come to the place of emptying. Then I see another thing here, and that's in verse number 24. It says Jacob was left alone. Significance of the place of Jabbat, but then there's the solitude of the hour. He's left alone. If God can get us alone You know, I um if you read old books that were written by the preachers and theologians back in the 17th, 18th century, boy, those books had some depth to them. I mean those things are deep. How do they have time to do all that? Well, they have all the distractions we have. We got phones ringing. I ain't one of the great look, I like my cell phone, but it's it can be one of the greatest curses. Yeah, I there's a cartoon I saw had two frames in it. The first frame showed a bunch of guys standing around talking. The next frame showed a bunch of folks standing around looking at their phone. And that's the way it is, isn't it? There was a car commercial. Four guys sitting in the car and they're not talking. They're all texting each other in the car. They're sitting right next to each other. And behind each other. It's hard to get alone. All the distractions that we have that call for our attention I've often wondered, you know, notice something I noticed over the years, there are a lot of men in the ministry that grew up on a farm. What is there about farming that is conducive to putting men in the ministry? I well, I think the solitude maybe. You're out there where there's no noise. You're out in the field. You're in a place where you don't have all these distractions, time to think. I don't know if that's the case or not, but sounds reasonable. But I've noticed there are a lot of men in the ministry that grew up on farms Jacob was alone, it says. Solitude of the hour But then I see something else here, and that's in verse number 24. There is the struggle in the night. Look at verse 24. Jacob was left alone and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. Now I've heard that text preached on as Jacob wrestling with God in prayer. I don't know if you ever heard that or not. That's not really what it is. It doesn't say that Jacob wrestled with God. It says a man wrestled with him. See that? They're wrestled. And by the way, verse 30 tells us who that man is. He said, I've seen God face to face. None other than the Lord Jesus Christ Himself in the Old Testament, wrestling with the conniver. God wrestles with us. You know, I remember um Reading the book called By My Spirit by Jonathan Goporth. I think Pastor has that book. Some of you probably read it too. Jonathan Goporth was a Presbyterian missionary to China back in the 1800s. And uh tells about his ministry during his time in China. One of the things he tells in there, he he said he and he and another missionary had a fallen out And he said, of course it was the other missionary's fault. But he said God was dealing with him about that thing, about getting that thing right. And he's arguing with the Lord, no, well, it's his fault. It's up to him to make things right, not me. Well, this went on for a while. He said he had to go on a preaching tour. And he said, God really been dealing with him about this thing. You need to get that right. If you don't get that thing right, you're not going to have my power. Well, he just put it off and put it off and passed it off. And he went on the preaching tour. And he said, one night he was preaching, things were just not going well, just could not sense the presence of God. He said in the midst of his message, he said, Lord, I'll make that thing right as soon as I get home. Immediately everything changed. Everything changed right in the middle of that message. God began to work. He could see visibly, see God working in hearts. Well, God wrestles with us. I met we had a fellow preaching here one time years ago, uh Dr. James Aspel. I I remember this fellow. He had a glass eye. Some folks might remember him. And in his testimony, he said this. He said, when I was growing up, he said I was a baseball player. And he evidently was pretty good. And his plan was to play professional ball. I guess some scouts, you know, were even looking at him and he was maybe headed for a career in professional baseball. But he said at the same time God was dealing with me about preaching. Struggle. Wrestling match. He wanted to preach or he wanted to play ball. God wanted him to preach. Well one time he was out in a game he got hit in the eye, lost his eye. That ended his baseball career. He had a glass eye. But he went preaching. And God used him in the ministry. Wrestling match. My wife and I went to Bible college in nineteen sixty seven, and uh After I was there for a while, I guess maybe I took my eyes off the Lord and I'm looking around at people and looking around at things and not a good thing to do. But I did And I saw some things that maybe I didn't like and so I said to the Lord, I'm leaving here. I'm packing my bags and I'm leaving. God said, No, you're not. Yes, I am. Oh no, you're not. That went on about every day. For a long time. I've seen something I didn't like. I'm leaving here. No, you're not leaving. You know, it all boiled down to this. God would say, Did I send you here or did you come here on your own? Lord, you sent me here. Unpack your bags. Unpack your bags. Don 't mean while I unpack my bags. But that was a wrestling match. I was here on the staff in in the 80s, middle eighties, assistant pastor here. Had a good relationship with Pastor Dickerson. I was involved in the college here. But an opportunity came up for me to go to a school out in the Midwest. And uh I talked to these folks from out there on the phone, they were telling me What they had, they said, we we don't have any money problems. We're backed by a nonprofit foundation. We got plenty of money. We're looking for teachers Um told me what they had. They said for for our our staff we have uh homes with waterball carpet, central air. Each house has a garage. Told me what the salary was. I mean, boy, it sounded great. They went on and on, and boy, I wanted to do it. I wanted to do it. And they say, we want to fly you out here. Look at this. Well, I need to pray about this. I haven't prayed about it. I had a wrestling match that night And I'm telling the Lord, I want to do this, and God's telling me I don't want you to do it. I don't want you to do it. Lord, you don't understand. Isn't that a dumb thing to say? Lord, you don't understand? Of course he understands. I wanted to do it. And that went on until 4 o'clock in the morning. And I'm wrestling. Well, God's wrestling with me, put it that way. Four o'clock in the morning I finally said, Lord, if you don't want me to do it, I won't do it. Immediately I went to sleep. Went right to sleep. So the next day I got up and I called these people and I told them I said, there's no use me coming out there. I know what I'm supposed to do. I know So I didn't do it. Well guess what? Some years after that, school went wrong. It's a good thing I didn't do it. But God knows best. And when he wrestles with us, it's for our good and his glory. For a reason, isn't it? Well , solitude the hour, struggle in the night This went on to the breaking of the day, it says. Then in verse 25, and when he That's the Lord. When he saw thee, he prevailed not against Jacob. He touched the hollow of his thigh. And the hollow Jacob's tribe was out of joint as he wrestled with him. You know, he knows exactly where to touch us. He knows exactly where to break us, doesn't he? Um I uh listen, our will is strong, isn't it? We want to do what we want to do. But God knows how to break that. And Jacob is is holding on. He is resisting. He's not giving up. God touched the hollow of his thigh, and that broke him. He was out of joint as he wrestled with him here. The stroke of the Lord You know , it would be a good thing if we just listen to him uh and do what he says rather than putting up the fight. But if we put up a fight, he can take other measures, can't he? I mean he can take something away from us. But he will deal with us as to what's best for us and for his glory. Well, after he touched the hollow of his thigh It says in verse 26, and he said, That's the Lord, let me go, for the day breaketh. And he, that's Jacob, said, I'll not let thee go, except thou bless me. Notice Jacob is not struggling anymore. He's clinging, he's holding on. He's not wrestling anymore. He's just clinging. He's holding on. And he said, Lord bless me. That's what I need. That's the surrender now of the deceiver. He's giving in now. This this is the only battle we win by surrendering. When we give in to what God wants, that is how we win. And so he's done struggling now. He's he's just clinging. He's just holding on. Lord, I'm not gonna let you go unless you bless me. Well, there's the spiritual blessing of the prince now in verse number Starting in verse number twenty six. He said, Let me go for I'll for the day break of it. He said, I'll not let thee go except thou bless me. Verse 27, and he said to him, God said to Jacob, what's your name? He didn't say that because he didn't know his name, did he? I want to hear you say it that you're a deceiver. I want to hear you say it And you know when when we confess our sins, you ever done this? Lord, if I've sinned, come on now. We know we have, we know what it is. He wants to hear us say it. Tell me what it is. That's true confession, isn't it? What's your name? He said, Jacob. And he said, thy name shall be called no more Jacob than Israel. For as a prince hast thou power with God and hath and with men and hast prevailed. Changing your name. You're not going to be the deceiver anymore. You're going to be the prince with God. Then we find the seal of the victory. It says in verse number 29. Jacob asked him and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name. And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he blessed him there. And Jacob called the name of the place Penil, for he said, I've seen God face to face. And my life is preserved. And he passed over Panuel, as he passed over Panuel, the sun rose upon him, and he halted upon his thigh. Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh unto this day, because he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh and the sinew that shrank. He had that mark for the rest of his life That was a reminder of this experience. And he was never the same after that. He was Jacob the deceiver before, and now he's Israel Principal God. And God does similar things in his dealings with us. Um, he wants us to get to a place Where we're surrendered to Him , where He can do something with us and work through us. But we're gonna have put everything on the altar, aren't we? We're gonna have to put everything on the altar. Someone said Jacob contended with the for the birthright and he won. He contended for the blessing and he won. He contended with Laban and he won. But when he contended with God, he lost. But in losing, he won. In surrendering. He won. And the deceiver became a prince. Well , All kinds of experiences in the Christian life. But we have this struggle so much of our life with the old man that's there. Because the old man wants to have his way. Right? He does. And he doesn't give he doesn't give up easily. But by surrendering, that's the key to winning. That's the key to victory. And so just as The deceiver here became the prince. God can do things in our lives and and change us completely. And make us the kind of Christian. You know, we're in in Romans chapter 8, it it says that one of the things he's doing is to conform us to the image of Christ. That's what God's doing in our lives right now to make us like Christ. It's a big job, isn't it? It's a big job. But that's that's what he's doing. That will be completed one of these days, won't it? Till that time though, we've maybe had some struggles. But in that struggle we need to surrender. That's the key to victory. As as Jacob quit wrestling Won the victory. Well, may the Lord add his lesson to his word tonight. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for this time. Thank you for your word. Thank you for the Holy Spirit who takes it.