Now hold on. I don't want your church answer. I don't want your Christian answer. I want the real answer. Deep down in your heart, do you really believe He loves you? Now before you answer it, I want you to think about it with me. I'm convinced that a lot of people up here say he loves me But down in their heart where it really matters, are just not even sure if he even likes them. I want to take four words out of John 3. 16 and magnify this truth that you matter to God. You matter to God. The Bible says, of course, last week we looked at for God, look at these last four words. So loved the world. He so loved the world. And by the way, you're included in that world. You matter to the Lord. I think it'd be a great revelation of truth to some hearts if you got a hold, or let me say it like this: the truth got a hold of you. That you matter to him. That you matter. Oh, you it's easy to say, well, I I know my church matters, and I know the world matters, and I know this one matters, and I know but hold on, what about me? Let me say this, you matter the Lord. D. L. Moody said that he believed if he could convince every man that God loves him, he could convert the world. Now, whatever you believe about that statement, there's a lot of things, but the reality is a lot of times we turn the other way because we don't believe what the Bible says. Even saved people struggle with the truth. God loves me I love that hymn. I am so glad that Jesus loves me. Jesus loves me. Jesus loves me. I am so glad that Jesus loves me. Jesus loves even me. I don't know the story. May Brother Dixon get on that. I don't know the story behind that hymn But it sounds like to me that the writer of the hymn was struck with the overwhelming thought that God loves me. That he loves me. And I don't think you understand grace until you're humbled by the fact that he loves you Fool ships don't sail in high in the water. They sink mighty low. And when you understand that he loves you, I mean who am I? Didn't the psalmist David before the cross of Calvary would ask that question? What is man? And he's looking at the greatness of the of the creation of God. He's saying, What am I in light of all this? I think sometimes we do not see the love of God because we're so full of love for self. We're not overwhelmed by the reality that the God of heaven loves me. He loves me. Let's pray. Father, help us just now, please. I pray that you'll do what I can't, and that's impressed truth on some heart. And I don't know, Lord, just exactly who needs what, but I'm glad, Father, you do. And I pray the truth of your word would just penetrate our persons. And Lord, transform our lives. Lord, make this truth very real and near to some soul. And Lord, we'll thank you for what you do. Help me to be faithful to lift up the Lord Jesus, for it's in his mighty name we pray. And God's people said. You know, John 3. 16 is a bottomless well. And it's been in my heart to preach it in these days, and the more I preach it, it's just like you can't sort of find an end to it. But there's a message conveyed here in this passage, and you've got to understand something that the message of John 3. 16, which we said last week, is a Bible in miniature. It's one of the most well-known, if not the most well-known, verses in all of God's Word. Just about anybody anywhere can tell you what John 3. 16 says, or at least some rendition of it, or nearly the truth to it. And they can tell you the truth of John 3. 16. But do you realize that Jesus did not stand and preach John 3. 16? To the 5,000 setting on a hillside somewhere as he just fed and multiplied the bread and fish. He didn't speak to a whole multitude when the whole city of Jerusalem came out and were throwing down their clothes and saying, Hail, King of the Jews, and Hosanna, and we're He didn't preach that message. He didn't give John 3. 16 to that great crowd at Jerusalem. John 3 16 was delivered to a religious man in the middle of the night looking for something he didn't have. One man Just one man. He carried that truth, not to a multitude. He didn't stand in the temple like he did daily and talk for a period of time, and he didn't speak John 3 16 there When he healed the lame man, he didn't tell the crowd that stood saying, We've never seen it on this fashion. He didn't tell them those great truths of John 3:16. He quietly spoke them. So this man who was bound in his religion and wrapped up in all of his deeds and doings. Trying to get to heaven based on what he could do. And he spoke these life-changing words. You know what that tells me, church? That tells me Nicodemus mattered to the Lord. He was somebody important to him. You read there in John chapter 3, verse 1, there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. The same came to Jesus by night and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God. For no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man, not a nation, not a multitude, but except a man. What man's he talking about? He's talking about the man Nicodemus. Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Now, church, God doesn't deal with masses or multitudes, but individuals. One at a time. You say, how does God save people? One at a time. One at a time. You know, I get the impression as I read my Bible That one matters to God. Just one. Now, in this day, if bigger is better and more equals best , We get we lose, we lose. And and listen, I I I pray that we'll reach more. And I I pray that as a as a local church we'll see, I never thought about it the way Brother Roseberry mentioned it, but he said he wanted to see all the red covered. What's he talking about? He's talking about these red pews, you know And uh I I pray that will be the case. But at at the same time, I don't want to lose, and you need not lose, the importance of one One soul, one individual , one person matters to the Lord. And it's often the way God works as he singles out one. The value of one. But as I read the Bible, I see that Jesus went after the ones. In Luke chapter 15, he taught a parable. You listen to it if you will. Luke 15, verse 1 says, Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. Isn't that a wonderful thing? All the publicans and the sinners. I heard one old country preacher read that one time. He said, all the Republicans and sinners. And the congregation laughed at him. And he said, Well, I was as near the truth as any. So But the truth is, here's a group of people. Unfit by religious views of being in his presence Unfit. Here's a group of individuals that most said, stay away. Stay away. I know that because verse 2 says the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. You may not say amen, but you ought to put amen by that. Because that means you got a door in. This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. Now this is going on. Here's a multitude of people, the outcasts, the off-scouring, the the rejects of that society. They're all Come to hear the Lord Jesus and these Pharisees and scribes who were the religious elite. You see them walking down the street, man, I'll tell you, they were so holy looking it appeared as if they floated rather than stepped. And people watched them go by. And even in that day, they would, I mean, there were people that would cross on the other side of the street because they didn't feel worthy to be in their presence. And here comes Jesus. And Jesus doesn't put his attention or put his focus on that outfit. In fact, he has his harshest words for those individuals. But he opens the door wide to these publicans and these sinners, and they all come to hear him. And here's what the Lord says he spake a parable unto them, unto the Pharisees and scribes, saying What man of you having a hundred sheep, if he lose, what's that, what's the next, you know the parable here, lose how many? One of them doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness and go after that which is lost until he found it He says, Is one of your sheep important to you? Just one. Well, you'll you'll leave all the rest of them locked up somewhere, and you'll go find one. You'll look you'll look for him and and and you'll not just give a casual glance. You'll look until you find him You'll turn over every stone and look at every valley and look at every precipice, and you'll keep looking till you find him. Why? Because that one's important to you. That one means something to you. You can't leave that one. You dare not leave it. If you leave him, you're in trouble. It's in trouble. He's in trouble. And someone will go after that one. Do not and he says you'll go after it and you'll find it And I like verse 5, and when he hath found it, he laith it on his shoulders, rejoicing. It thrills his heart to find the one. He doesn't just come home and say, Oh well, I found the sheep. He puts him on his shoulder and he begins to rejoice and probably shouts like only a Middle Eastern shepherd could shout, I found that lost one. I found that lost one. And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me. It's so good he can't keep it to himself. He said, I got to get somebody else in on this. My sheep was gone. I found him. He's home now. The flock is whole. And he said, We're going to rejoice about it. I want all my friends and all my neighbors, I want everybody to come. Why? Because we found the one. We found the one. Don't miss that, please. We found the one. I have found my sheep which was lost. Now Jesus says something here that I'm sure blew the Pharisees' minds. I'm sure they staggered away. They didn't walk away. They staggered away after what he said. He said, and I say unto you. And I don't believe he stuttered or looked down to the ground when he said it. He said, I say unto you, likewise, joy shall be in heaven over One sinner that repenteth. More than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance. Now know this. Everybody there know who he's talking about. Everybody there understood whose side of this they fell on. You were either the one or you were in that bunch. You are either the one or you were one of the scribes or Pharisees of those that were murmuring over these sinners who were coming to the Lord Jesus. Now, what's he telling me here? He's telling me one matters. One matters. Just one. And he's saying, Do you not realize that you do this over one sheep? One sheep? One of the probably most numerous animals in that part of the world would be sheep. Sheep was commonplace in a lot of ways. I mean, everywhere you look, you find sheep, sheep grazing, or Sheep being led somewhere, or sheep drinking water. There were sheep everywhere, and yet they were such value to them that one one little sheep brought joy when it was discovered after having been lost. And our Lord says, You'll do that for that. Beast, I'll tell you something in heaven, we don't rejoice over sheep, we rejoice over souls. And in heaven, when one sinner repents, when one sinner is saved by the grace of God, when one sheep that was lost is found, when one stray that is gone away is recovered. When that one soul, when that one soul is gathered in, oh heaven goes to rejoicing. Now some of you precious people, you're going to have a cultural shift or adjustment when you get home to heaven. I mean some of you it makes you nervous when somebody's little pinky goes up. And you're thinking, oh my, I hope they don't get too emotional Well, you better hold on. In heaven, you've got a rude awakening. Amen. He said the angels rejoice. I don't know what the angels do when they rejoice. But what I've discovered in my Bible, every time they rejoice, they sing. And so they're singing, there's some sort of singing, and what do they do when they sing? They're always giving glory to God. And so, in some way or another, the angels are acknowledging glory to the God of heaven because a sinner is brought in. Now they look, they want to look, they long to look into this thing of salvation. They themselves, I don't know, can comprehend it, maybe even to the level that you do. But the reality is when they see this thing, it's a wonder of wonders that these sinners, these souls that are lost, can be saved by God's grace. and be given a place in heaven and they sing over it and they rejoice over it. Over one. Just one In heaven's economy, one matters. One matters One makes a difference in heaven's doings, in heaven's calculation. One. But what I want to impress on your heart this morning is that you're the one. You're the one. Now I know some smart elf is going to say, which one? Let me use the term I hope you understand, all y'all. That means every e each and every one. Do you believe that? Do you believe that you matter? Had you been the only soul lost and hellbound, I believe Christ would have died for your soul. Had I been the only one who needed salvation, God in heaven would have sent me a Savior. And made away. Why, because one matters. Oh, I know to our government you're a social security number. Don't matter. And I know when you get in your car and drive down the road you're a license plate number. Don't matter When you're numbered among a census and a census is taken, you're just somebody who lives at such and such place and such and such, and you're just another number for them to use statistically to get money for this, that, and the other You're just one of many and really don't matter. But beloved, listen to me this morning. In the eyes of Almighty God, one still matters. One's important. And he took the message of John 3. 16 that would be carried around the world and gave it to one man. He gave it to one man. I want you to see in my text three things real quick. Number one, I want you to see this expression of intensity. Look at that word so. So It's a word that measures things. It's a way of measuring something by a degree. And so we're seeing here that there's an intensity in the love of God that you've never seen before. You ever see anybody get mad that you didn't think could get mad and they got mad to such a level you didn't believe it's possible? You're thinking, wow, that was intense. When you look at the love of God You can't look at it coldly and say, Ah, I've seen the likes of it before. I've got news for you. You've never seen love like this. You y you've never been and listen, some of you can say you've been loved well. Maybe you had a mother that loved you. I mean really loved you. Or a father, or a spouse, or a child, or or whoever it may be. But but and you say, Preacher, I I've never been loved like I've been loved by that individual But listen to me, it pales in comparison to the love of God for you. There's an intensity to this love, an intensity that earth knows nothing about. This is heaven's love. This is an intense love. You're so loved. God so loved. What was the manner of this love? It was the cross of Calvary. Romans 5. 7 tells us, verse 8 rather, but God commendeth his love toward us. In that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. It says part of that in verse 7, you know, scarcely for a righteous man one would die. You know, God the we can understand dying for maybe a good person or maybe putting your life on the line for a friend or a family member. We can understand that. You comprehend that. I'd be willing to die for you. You men, I I I believe God puts in you that that willingness to stand up to your family. You say, I'd die for them. I'd lay down my life for them. That's how much I love them. But it wasn't the lovely that Christ died for. It was a sinner. He died for the wicked. You think about it. He died for the man that would lift his fist towards heaven and defy God. He died for the vilest offender, the most wicked vile thing you can imagine. You put your title on it. And listen, he died for that. He died for those individuals. He died for that sin. And by the way, lest we get too haughty, the reality is that we class sin, God don't. And as a a law as one who's broken the law of God, you and I stand in the same place that every lost man stands. We stand as criminals, we stand as condemned, we stand as lawbreakers, we broke the law of God. And whether we've lied or lusted, we've done all the same. We've broken the whole thing. We're guilty of the whole law. And every man who's not saved is under condemnation of the law of God and the righteousness of God, and you stand condemned. And my friend, listen to me, what love is it that would make somebody die for people like that? That's love, that's intense love. God so loved the world. I think the meaning of this so is that you and I would understand that we are the object of his affection. Do you understand this language when somebody dotes on you? Does that make sense? Dotes on you? You hear about my My grandmother doted on her grandsons. I don't know why, but and uh when you'd go to her house, you know, her love language was food. That's that that's my language. Amen. And sh you'd sit down and and she'd always say things. I there was nothing scrawny about me when I was little I was almost ten pounds when I was born and I went up from there quick. And I remember her saying to my mother, she said, she didn't like it, but she'd say to my mother, she said, do you not feed that boy? And uh, you know, she'd come by and and she'd always put you didn't ask for more. You know, she was one of those grandmas. You didn't ask for more. She came by if you had a bare spot in your plate, she Throw something on it. She didn't believe you should set it at the table with a bear spot. And uh man, she and she would and I can hear my mother saying, Stop doting on him. Stop doting on him. You walk in the door. I I I think it was I think there was a selfish purpose because uh she was one of those grandmas that pinched your cheeks and I hated that. And I believe she was just trying to get my cheeks out there where she'd get a good hold on them when you come to see her. And she'd get a hold of it, she'd just preach them out, oh, that hurt. She she had a love. There was an intensity about her love. You didn't go in her house and just say, whoop, whoop, go sound somewhere, you know. Man, she it it it was like the greatest thing in the world when her grandchildren came. And she poured out her love. I'm telling you, that's not even a fraction of how God loves you. I can't comprehend it. I'm preaching above my head, and I'm on waters I can't swim in. But I'm telling you the truth of the matter is, God so loved the world. His love is not a cold and generic and ho -hum sort of thing. It's an intense love that'll change your life if you get a hold of it. He loves me so Number two, I see in my text an expression of intimacy. Look at that next word, loved. For God so loved, loved. Here's a powerful thing. It's a divine love, a love that's not known on this earth except coming from the Lord. It's love that you and I can't express because we don't possess It's a love that is demonstrated in a powerful fashion as we recognize that this is God loving me. You know everything God does, He does perfectly. Every attribute of God is a perfect attribute. He's perfect in his love. He's perfect in his mercy. He's perfect in his holiness. He's perfect in his justice. Everything about God, there's no lacking, you know, like you and I. We we have measures of of all these attributes and various attributes. And some are lacking and some are too much, but not the Lord. He's perfect in all things. And his love is a perfect love. It's a powerful love. And because it's a perfect love, it's powerful. Apostle Paul would write language that you and I, I don't know, enter into much, but he said the love of Christ constraineth us. I used to hear old Jim Whitted stand in class and he says, oh God in heaven, I'm in a prison that has no walls He said, I'm pulled with chains that I can't put my hands on. And he was talking about this love, this mighty love of God. What makes a man march to a stake and lay down his life gladly? Love. Heaven's love. What makes an individual sacrifice everything for the cause of Jesus Christ? Think of William Borden left a great. inheritance and money and everything and just said, look, make it do whatever with it. I'm gonna serve Christ. It was love. I I think of that love that will not let me go That's love, friend. That's powerful love. But you know something? It's practical love. Sometimes our love's not very practical. People say, well, they never say I love you. Somebody said, oftentimes people say I love you, and we just don't hear it because of the language in which it's spoken. Usually when I left dads he would say, Now call me when you get home. And say it kind of rough like that. Well, I love you too. But he was really saying, I love you enough that I want to make sure you get home safe. That's what he was doing. Not all of our I love you's have to be spoken in that same fashion. And our Lord had a practical love. You see, He had a regard for the welfare of another. See, my I had a great need, and you have a great need. And had my greatest need been for physical health, the Lord would have sent me a physician. Had my greatest need been to make money, he would have sent me an economist Had my greatest need been happiness, he would have likely sent me a life coach. But my greatest need was deliverance from sin, so God sent me a Savior. And Jesus Christ dying on the mighty cross of Calvary said, I love you, with a with a statement that my friend heaven and earth cannot deny. And continues echoing down through the halls of time to this moment. I love you, he said. Oh, what practical thing it is. But then it's personal. It's personal because this word loved is in the accusative case And just from the very name of that word, you kind of get the idea that he's pointing the finger. This is directed to somebody. It's directed to an individual. That word love is a word that is directed to an individual. And I want you to know something. You're the individual. You're the individual. I think we often relegate hymns and songs to certain places in time. One of these days we're going to sing a Christmas carol in June. Just to prove a point. Because hitting the birth of Christ something to celebrate in June as well as in December. But we take a song, and I think it's a deep song, Jesus Loves Me. How many of you learned that as a kid or somewhere in your youth? Jesus loves me. Somebody sang it to you, maybe a grandmother, maybe you learned it in Sunday school. Jesus loves me, this I know. How do you know? For the for the Bible tells me so. How do I know that He loves me? Well, preacher, I know this. I went to church this morning and I felt real good inside. But maybe you're just having a good day and feel good. What about that outfit that feels bad? What about those people that got up and had to make sure their check engine light wasn't on? And then when they got up, their check engine light was on, but they said, Well, oh boy, you're gonna go anyway. What about those that are under a heavy load right now, a burden? Maybe a loved one's sick and they're battling. Maybe they've been separated from friends and fellowship because they're caring for a loved one. What about that individual? They may not feel this love or feel love, but listen What tells me he loves me? The Bible tells me so. It's what my Bible says that settles it, whether I believe it or not. And what I'm saying this morning is that you need to go back to the Word of God and disregard feeling and disregard your own thoughts and take up the precious Word of God as what it is, a message from heaven that says, I love you. Jesus loves me. This I know, for my Bible tells me so. This Bible is a love letter from heaven. And more of what love it portrays. It's almost if if somebody other than God had not written it, I wouldn't believe it. But because he's such a character, you and I can believe everything it says, even though you and I can't hardly even fathom it That He loves me. That He loves me. Some of you may have a trouble with that. You're saved. You're going to heaven. But you're just not sure. It's a long time before I ever even believed God liked me, let alone loved me. And I began to realize that he doesn't love me based on my performance and he doesn't love me based on what I do. He loves me because of who I am and who he is and what he did on Calvary. He loves me through his son. He loves me through his son. Because he loves his son, he loves me. Then I want you to notice quickly in closing the expression of interest here. God so loved the world. He loved the world. You say, preacher, you've been talking about one, and here the Bible talks about the world. But I want you to notice some things in this statement. It's first a statement of intent. It was for the world of humanity that Christ died, the world of mankind. Jesus didn't die for the angels or the animals. But he did die for man. And he loves man. He loves mankind. You'll never look a person in the eye and see somebody the Lord don't love. Never No matter how offensive or how whatever it may be about them, you'll never look them in the eye and see someone who Jesus does not love. God so loved the world. That world of humanity. It shows the interest of his heart, what was God interested in, or what is God interested in. I think we forget. We get so caught up in trying to save things that God's not interested in. I believe we ought to be good stewards of everything we have, but I'm not here to save the earth. I might help what little corner I live in. My wife, every time we see a turtle, I gotta stop and get that crazy thing and help him get across the road. She loves turtles. I don't know why. But so you say, what do you do? I pull over the side of the road, get the crazy turtle. Help him. I was helping one one time, this stupid thing. He turned around, he came walking back. I'm like, what are you doing? Let's go ahead and get run over. That's how my I get in the car and say, he's he's going the other way. Get run over. Well get him and put him on the other You put him on the other side. Now you're on your own. We're driving away fast. I'm not here, but we're not here to save the world. I think the church today has forgotten what the interest of the Lord is. Our Lord's got a plan for this earth. And the Bible tells me there's going to come a time that He's going to judge this earth we live on, and He's going to burn it up with fire. That's what He's going to do. It's not our responsibility. I'm saying it's it's not our mission. It's not what we've been left here to do. It's our mission. Our mission is his mission. His mission was. His interest was in mankind. God so loved the world. The man uh man's sin and man's soul and man's salvation, that's what matters to the Lord. That's what's paramount in the Word of God. That's what He's left the church here to be, is salt and white, friend. And listen, you've got to understand that the interest of God is in the souls of man. And again, there's not one that he doesn't love. You may be sitting here saying, but if he loved me, why is my life like it is? If he loved me, why is all these things happening and why have I been left alone? And why have I been brokenhearted? And why has all this come into my life? And I don't have the answer to that. But I'm saying to you, don't let the circumstances of life define for you the love of God. Go back to the Bible, look up to the cross. See Jesus hanging there and know that for time and eternity He settled it. He loves the world. And he shouted it from Calvary's dark hill. And then this text also shines here, this expression of interest. It shines with individuality because what is the world but a multitude of individuals? What is the world? We talk about the church, the church, the church, the church. You want the church is? You. God's people. His body. This building's not the church, it's where we meet. But if we were to take a notion and go over there and sit under the tabernacle, then the church would be there. And if for some strange reason we want to go down to Oldfield Point and go out there in that wheat field and have church, that's where the church would be. It's not the building, the brick and mortar. We get this we get confused sometimes. It's you and I, the saved, born-again child of God. You're a part of that body. That's the church. And when we talk about the world, we're not talking about a mass, a glob of peoples that just sort of wander about. We're talking about individuals. And God is of such magnitude that when he speaks the world, he can see everyone by name and know each individual immediately all at once. Now some of you dear mothers are good about knowing who's who in your family. I remember my mother, we almost had one name tags. There were so many of them, she You'd be called five things before your right name got spoken. You know. She'd go down the list. I'm like, I'm the next one, you know. Just keep going, Mom, I'll be the next one. But not our God. Look, he knows the hairs on your head. That's how important you are to him. He knows he knows all there is. He knows your thoughts. David said, He knows my downsigma uprising. He knows my thoughts are far off. Will you ever think what you think? He's already knowing what it is you're going to think. That's how interest he is in you. Now here's what the devil does. You don't matter to him. If you mattered to him, this wouldn't be happening to you right now. If you mattered to him, he wouldn't let things go like they've gone. I got news for you. Dr. Hitchens said this morning. He's a liar. He's a liar. Bottom line. Because you've got a Bible that says God so loved the world, and when he said the world, he wasn't thinking of a mass of nameless faces. He was thinking of each one of you by name. He knows you as individuals. You ever notice this? I gotta stop. Good thing is I can't tell what time it is. But you'll notice the ones who got his attention. You ever notice that? Of all that could be written, it was the ones that got his attention. One leper healed. Spirit of God said, Write it down. He came back and gave thanks. One little boy with the lunch brought it and gave it to the Lord. The Lord said, Write that down. Just one. Just one. That one lady with the issue of blood who touched him in his garment, and I'm going to tell you something, here she is in a multitude of people, and there's so many people they're knocking and pushing around. And the disciples look at Jesus and he says, Somebody touch me. And and they're like, somebody touched you. There's a thousand people touching you. Oh no, he said, somebody touch me. And virtue went out of me. You know what he said? She matters for me. She matters to me. He wasn't asking for information, by the way. He knew who touched him. He wanted those men to know she mattered. Now likely she didn't feel like she did. Because all she's doing is trying to crawl through the crowd and just touch the hem of his garment, hoping that something will help and that some way he'll help her. And listen, he turns around and he says, You touch me. And like with like a laser focus, he looked on her. What about that one taking in adultery? In fact, he drove everybody else until it was just him and her. And then he said, Neither do I condemn thee. Go and sin no more. I'm telling you, one matters. One. Just one. You may be able to say, and I I fear there's some that can, especially as we get close to the Lord's coming, no man cares for my soul. That may be true. You may be have have fallen through the cracks of society to the point that there's no one that would be your advocate or stand up and come to your aid. But I'm telling you, what you don't have on earth you got in heaven. Because there's one in heaven who knows your name. Who will come to your rescue, who will step in your stead, who will give to you salvation full and free, my friend, who will stick closer than a brother right by your side. When all else walks away, he'll be right there with you There's one who cares. You matter to the Lord. Can you imagine in this population of nearly well now over eight billion people A world of eight billion, He knows you. And He loves you. And if you're not saved, he wants to save you. And if you are saved, you need to understand he cares about what you're going through. He knows right where you are, he's got your address. And better than that, he's got his eye right on you. You're the object of his affection. Now, how can I illustrate this? You you know that I grew up with the need to be disciplined. Okay But I remember this. My grandmother, she was six when I died, or when she died and went to heaven. But I never got a spanking at her house. Now come near it. But my grandmother would say, Come here. And she'd see me getting in trouble. She'd call me over to her. She'd pull me up in that wheelchair And she'd hold me. I knew I was safe. Now I wasn't smart, but I knew enough that my mama wasn't gonna whoop me right sitting in her lap I was safe. Now my mother might blow and bluster at home, but at her mama's house she respected her mama and if her mother said, You're not going with him here Now she did give me twice more when I got home. It really never worked in my favor. But at least while I was there, I was in good keeping. And I learned if I was going to be ornery, stay close to Grandma. Because I wouldn't get in trouble there. What I'm trying to say is this. Her love protected me. My sin demands I should be in hell. Right this minute. All I've done is listen, I should I should already be cut off, but there's one protecting me. I'm in the arms of the one who loved me and paid my sin debt in full. He didn't look a blind eye and and and and turn and say, Oh, it's not that bad. No He provided a lamb. He provided a sacrifice. It was the sacrifice of his son. And now in him I'm saved. Now listen, I'm still saved, safe in his good keeping. You're not a pawn in the devil's territory. We're living on enemy ground, but he can't do like he wants with you. You're in his hand, the Lord's hand. Wherever you may go, whatever you may encounter, you know this, you're loved by the Lord, and his eye is ever on you. And the good thing is, he doesn't ever close his eyes when he's And and sleep. He never slumbers nor sleeps. His eyes are always open. He sees him the day and the night just the same. And he listen, he's got his eye on you because he loves you. You matter to the Lord. Now you may need to bow your head in a moment and say, Now, Lord, help me know that. Help me believe that. That's what it boils down to. Help me believe what the Bible says. Help me to believe it because you said it. Help me to believe it, not because I necessarily feel it, but help me to believe it because it's true. And help me to live in the light of that great truth. I think there'd be a lot more joy in some people's hearts if they really believe that they are the object of God's affection, that He does love you. He really does. Are you saved, my friend? Do you know Jesus as your personal Savior? I don't want to know what church you belong to or what religious things you've gone through. Be those what they are. The reality is they'll not get you to heaven. Only Jesus Christ and his sacrifice on the cross will save you. Look to him. Trust him. Call on him. Cry out. You say, he won't hear me. He never turns a deaf ear when someone pleads for mercy. He's standing ready to give you the gift of eternal life. Call on him. Maybe you're saved and you're just not sure he loves you. Believe what the Bible says. And ask the Lord to help you. Lord, help me with this. Help me know. Help me know in my heart you love me. Make it real to me. You get honest and pray like that. He'll do it. He'll do it. Would you stand with me, please? Our brother's coming with our hymn.