Take your Bible, please, and go to Hebrews chapter number four. Hebrews chapter number four. And when you find your place, I'll ask you to stand because I'm going to read three verses, verses fourteen, fifteen, and sixteen. And I know these are verses, if you've studied your Bible at all, you're very familiar with them. But I hope that you will not let the The commonality of these verses rob you of something new this morning. What I'm thankful about concerning the Bible is that No matter how many times you may read a verse or you may go over a portion of Scripture, there's always something fresh in God's Word God doesn't have anything stale to say to any of us. And so let's ask him to speak to us, please. Hebrews chapter 4, verse number 14. Seeing then that we have a great high priest that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Our Father, we're bowing just now in obedience to your word and with a burden on our heart. That Father you would fulfill the truth of these words. As we've gathered here and opened our Bible, we're asking, Lord, that you would give grace and mercy and help in this time of need. Lord, I pray that you would speak to our hearts, open the eyes of our understanding. And Lord, just have your will in this assembly of believers. Dear Lord, do a mighty work. God in this on this property in every heart. Give us ears to hear what the Spirit saith. And Lord, for what you do, we'll be careful to give you all the glory, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. We studied on Wednesday evening a portion of Scripture in the book of Acts about the praying church. And my heart still exercised along those lines that , but I'm not going to be as interested in the praying church this morning as I am the praying Christian. We studied on Wednesday night at the praying church. We're going to look at that more in the days ahead. But I want to look at this text and talk about the praying Christian. Can I ask you a question? Do you pray? Do you pray? Now, before you answer that question, know this. There are a lot of people that say their prayers that don't ever pray. Oh, you say, but preacher, every night before I go to bed, I get on my knees and I pray. Or every night before I go to bed, I bow my head and I pray. But do you pray? See, you can say prayers. You can say prayers. I'm sure we all learned that little prayer, or at least heard of it. Now I laid me down to sleep. I prayed the Lord my soul to keep. And uh so on. I can't remember the rest of it all of a sudden for some reason, but uh there's all sorts of prayers that that we memorize. And listen, if you're saved You might have memorized some prayers that you pray a lot, and you can pray them without praying. All of the repetition in prayer didn't die with the Pharisees. And it didn't die with the scribes, and it didn't die with the religious zealots of Jesus' day. There's some good old Baptists that still pray repetitious prayers. But let me ask you again: do you pray? Do you pray? You say, What is prayer? Prayer is nothing more than getting a hold of God. If you want to know what prayer is, when you study the Bible, you find men like Elijah who got a hold of God and God sent fire down from heaven. When you talk about what prayer is, you talk about a Hannah who went and poured her heart out to God and got a Samuel in return. When you talk about prayer, you see God doing things that only God can do when people get desperate and get a hold of God and get in touch with the Lord. Let me ask you again: do you pray? In Acts chapter 9, you know the chapter that's where Saul of Tarsus was saved. And uh it's interesting to me that Saul was a praying man before he was a saved man. You say, how do you know that? Because he was a uh he was a Pharisee and as a religious Jew he prayed and he probably prayed more than most Christians do. He would have prayed at least three times a day. We know that. There would have been other times of intense prayer. He would have fasted and prayed. in obedience to the regulations that the Pharisees put on each other. He did a lot of praying, but do you know he never really prayed until he said these words, Who art thou, Lord? First prayer that man ever really prayed was when he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the next prayer was even more phenomenal when he said, What wilt thou have me to do? My, what praying that was. It wasn't theologically pretty like the Pharisees were prone towards, and it wasn't something that that that was entertaining to the ear, but it sure got the attention of heaven. And I'm saying to you that this praying that goes on a lot of times is maybe pretty to the ear, but does it please God? Now think about this. Do you pray? But Saul gets saved, and of course you know the Lord changes his name to Paul. And it's there in verse number 10. He's told Ananias, he says, now Ananias, I want you to go and I want you to pray for this man. I want you to put your hands on him. And Ananias says, Behold on, Lord, what do you know about this guy? He kills Christians. He's a persecutor. I'm not too and you know it just showed good sense on Ananias ' part. He didn't want to just go rush right into this thing. He said, Lord, I want to be sure. I want to be sure. Can I ask you something? How did God comfort Ananias? How was it that he convinced Ananias to go? Here's what he said. He said three little words. Behold, he prayeth. You know what he said, Ananias? You can trust a praying man. You know what I've learned, pastor and Christians? Praying people are the most reasonable people you can deal with. Oh, that doesn't mean you don't ever disagree or you don't have difficulties, but you show me somebody who's praying, and I'll show you somebody who's pliable in the hands of the Lord. But I've had a lot of Christians, if they didn't pray a whole lot, they might have prayed a lot of prayers, they didn't really pray, and that that crowd's difficult to deal with. It's comforting to know that this man was praying and he said, Ananias, you good don't worry about him. He's a praying man now. Now, if your Christianity was defined by your prayers, would you be one? If God were to say, now this is God saying it, not not not people around Saul, but this was God saying, he's a praying man, if your Christianity was judged on your praying Would there be enough evidence to find you guilty? Behold, he prayeth I said on Wednesday night, Leonard Ravenhill made this statement, you're either praying or playing, and he was talking about the church, but I think that goes for us Christians too. As a Christian, we're either praying or we're playing. What else do we have to do as a believer than to seek the Lord? Let me give you a few things out of the text I hope will encourage our hearts about this thing of prayer. Notice in verse number 14 the privilege of prayer. I'm going to go back over these, but I want you to have this and see it in this light. The privilege of prayer. Verse number 15 is number two, and I want you to see the personal aspect of prayer. The personal aspect of prayer. And then number three, I want you to see in verse number 16 the possibility of prayer. The possibility of prayer. Look with me, if you will, at the privilege of prayer. It says this in verse 14, seeing then. Now, there's something you've got to see. Because if you don't see this, you won't pray. What do you have to see? Seeing then that we have a great high priest that has passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. May the Lord help us to see this. Would you know something? All of our spiritual privileges are through the person of Jesus Christ. All of our spiritual privileges. And prayer is a privilege. Now you might say, well, you know what? I'm a human. He's God. I've got right to pray. Hold on a minute. Remember what kind of God he is. He's a holy God. He's a God so holy that he's unapproachable except there be some sacrifice made for sin. And so all of our privileges, and you need to know that, you're going to heaven not because of who you are. You're going to heaven because of what Jesus did. You're a Christian today, not because you're such a wonderful person. You're a Christian today because you've got a wonderful Savior. All of our privileges, our privileges to pray, our privilege to seek the Lord, our privilege to call on God, come through the person of Jesus Christ. No wonder the hymn writer said, Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. All to him. I owe everything to him. And and whether I have eternal security, which the Bible teaches me I do, the forgiveness of sin, uh the the the fact that I'm sealed with the Spirit, the Holy Spirit of promise, and all the privileges that come with being a Christian My friend, know this. They do not come because you're a Baptist. They do not come because you're part of Marinatha Baptist Church. They do not come because you're who you are. They come because of Jesus, the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the reason I've got spiritual privileges. Notice number one, his position. I'm talking about prayer now, the privilege to pray. The Bible says, seeing then. That we have a great high priest. Now you and I sit here with we're not Jews, we don't have a Jewish mindset or mentality, but these Christians to whom Paul wrote did. And when he said to them, You have seeing then, you have, we have, a great high priest. You know what he said? He said, remember, you said, what's the high priest? What was the high priest? The high priest was access to God. That's what he stood for. If the high priest stood for anything, he was the man who could get in God's presence for the nation of Israel. In the Old Testament, when they built the tabernacle and they ordered things in the way they were and fashioned it, the Holy of Holies could only be approached once a year, and that by the high priest. Nobody else could go in there. Well, what was in there? God was in there. The manifest presence of God. God dwelt in that place. And it was there the high priest would go and he represented Israel on their behalf. He represented a nation. He represented the individuals. He went to God on their behalf In other words, he represents access to God. Can I remind you in the words of Ephesians chapter number 2 and verse number 8? The Bible tells us, for by grace are you saved through faith in that, not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. Now look at verse 18. For through him, that's Jesus, we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father. Do you realize that the great high priest, the position he holds, is what gives you access to God? Now, friend, understand you need to see that. I need to see that. My prayer life will be anemic if I don't see that I've got a great high priest. The condemnation of your conscience and the guilt of sin and the stain it leaves behind will make you even sh shrink back and say, I can't go in. I can't approach God. I'm not worthy. I'm not capable. And if it weren't for Jesus, that would all be true. But because of Jesus Christ He's opened a new and living way. And I've got a great high priest. That means I don't need a priest on this earth to go intercede for me I don't need a man to go and stand in my stead and approach God. I've got news for you. I've got one who's passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. Now, the privilege of prayer is due to the position he has. When I bow my head and pray, I'm not saying, now God wants you to hear me because I'm a Baptist. And I'm not bowing my head and say, God, I want you to hear me just simply because I'm a Christian. And God, I want you to hear me because I've done right good this week and I've not been bad, not failed you. No, I'm going to God. I'm saying, God, I need you to hear me. And I bring my petition through my high priest. Not only is he high priest, he's great high priest. He's not just a nominal priest, he's not just a regular high priest, he's not just after after the order of Aaron, he's a great high priest. In fact, there's none greater than him. There's none greater. So you see his position, number two, see his person. See in then that we have a great high priest that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. Notice who the high priest is. Again, he identifies him very clearly. He says he's Jesus, the Son of God. This whole book of Hebrews talks about the priesthood and its failure to bring about perfection. It failed because the high priest or the and the priests themselves were all mere men and they passed off the scene. They were just human beings and they couldn't last forever, and another one have to come and replace them, and another one have to come and replace them, and another one would have to come and replace them. But I'm glad I'm talking about someone who another will never come and replace. He will never be replaced. He will never have a substitute. He's always there. He's Jesus, the Son of God. I'm grateful here. He's magnified in his person as deity. He's Jesus the Son of God, not the Son of Man. Yes, he was Son of Man, but he was also Son of God. He's the key. And I'll remind you of something. Jesus Christ is always the key. You're not saved by anything but Him. Your prayers are not heard by any other than through Him. He's the key. He's not only the key, he's the whole door. John 10 said he's the door. And he said, I am the door, and by me if any man enter in he shall be saved. And listen, my friend, he is that key. And I want you to see it again in the privilege of prayer. It depends on the position and the person of the Son of God. But then notice he mentions in that same verse my profession. Let us hold fast our profession. What's a profession? Well, some say it's a confession. It's what one embraces. In other words, it's the testimony of the saved. It's the fact that there is And he says, let us hold fast that. And again, I'm talking about in the context of prayer. And let me say this: those with the privilege to pray should pray. Do you realize what he's done for you and for me? He's opened the door and how how sinful it is that you and I would not use the privilege that's been afforded us. We've been given the privilege to pray. I don't know that we might be living in the most prayerless age that has ever existed I don't know that there are many who profess, who never pray. They profess, but they never enter into that holy privilege of accessing God through the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you know something when when you're given a a privilege like that, you ought to take advantage of it? You ought to take advan I mean when God gives you such a privilege, uh I listen, if if if some high-ranking official were to give you an audience and say, I've got thirty minutes and I'll listen to anything you've got to say. Well people would break their neck. It might be a CEO of a great company, or it might be a leader in the in the free world, and and you say, Well, look, I've got to tell him all these complaints. But do you understand The God of heaven? The God of the universe? The God of all? The one who said, Let there be light, and there was and is? That God says to you, come boldly to the throne of grace, that you may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need? How can that be anything but sinful if we don't take advantage of that privilege? It's a privilege. Saved people have a privilege to come to God through Jesus Christ in prayer. Let me ask you again, do you pray? Do you pray? Number two, I want you to see the personal aspect of prayer. Verse 15. For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. You know what's magnified here? The compassion of Jesus Christ And the one thing, listen, I I'm not here to guilt you to pray. Your pray is between you and him. I I mean listen, there there's a there's a whole lot of manipulation that's done in a pulpit sometimes that don't ever affect anything eternally. I mean you can feel guilty and pray a little while but you won't pray. You might say your prayers, but you won't pray. And you can feel bad that you ought to pray more, but there ought to be something bigger than that drawing me to pray. And one of those things that draws me to pray is the compassion of Jesus Christ. Look what the Bible teaches. Number one, he's touched. That means he's sympathetic. He's touched with the feelings of our infirmities. He's touched. Now Paul states it in the negative, but he's speaking a positive truth. He says he's touched. When you go to him, you're going to somebody who knows what you feel. He's sympathetic toward you. The Bible says in Philippians 2 7, he was made in the likeness of men. Why? I like what one writer said. He said he lived as man that he might feel as man. He lived as man that he might feel as man. Look, he knows. He knows how you feel. Now you may say, nobody on earth knows how I feel, and that may be true, but I'll tell you God does. He's touched That tells me he's not a god of stone. He's not a God who doesn't care. He's touched He's touched with the feelings of iron firmness. Notice, not only is he touched by these, he's moved. Again, the idea here is that he's moved by it. He's affected by it. What he sees Stirs him. Look at him. Look at him on his knees praying over Jerusalem. Look at him saying, Would to God, I I would have gathered you like a hen does her chicks Look at him shedding tears over hard-hearted, blind people who won't turn to him. And don't tell me that he's the God that just wound everything up and walked away and said, Whatever will be, will be. No way. He's a God who's touched with the feelings right there. He's compassionate to where you are. Now here's the problem. We often want the ear of man more than we want the ear of God. And what good will it do? You ever pour your heart out and somebody say, Well, I can't do anything about it. Or maybe you pour your heart out and somebody says, Well, oh well , glad it ain't me. Think about Job as he pours his complaint out. And instead of consoling Job, Job's friend said, Job, here's what your problem is. You got sin in your life, boy. You've done this and that and the other. And here's what I'm trying to say, friend. You've got a great high priest that when you approach him, he's touched with the feelings of your infirmities. He's moved with compassion in your direction He's not stone-faced and hard-hearted and cold and indifferent. He's a God who's moved with the misery of mankind. I look at, what was I reading? I was reading this week, the deliverance of Israel out of out of Egypt, and it says, God heard their cry. What were they crying about? They were crying about because they were suffering down there. Man, they were slaves and they were they were down there just uh in misery, abject poverty, and they were being treated poorly, and they're crying out, they're crying out. And I'm glad there's a h there's a God in heaven who hears the cries of his children. Well we ought to be careful how we treat God's little children. Maybe I need to say that again. We need to be careful how we treat God's little children. They may have the Era One that'll mess you up. Listen. You've heard the saying about a mama bear and her cub. You know, all that cub has to do is squeeze. It don't have to be in danger. All it's got to do is make a noise like it is. And that mother bear move she changes to a whole new animal. I mean, she turns into something that with with her dying breath she'll defend the life of that little cub. I was hunting one time. I was sitting in a stand. It was only about seven feet off the ground, which I was very uncomfortable with. And it had a big hole coming up through, and I was bear hunting. And these two little cubs came in. And I thought they were small enough that Mama 's close. And I'm watching for her, I'm looking out the through the thing, I'm trying to see where she is. And you ever feel like something's watching you? Especially when you're in the woods, it's uncomfortable. I don't care how much firepower you got. And I just felt like something's looking at me. Now this is an enclosed stand. It's got a back, a roof, a side, it's got an open front. And I'm sitting there and I got this little stool. I'm sitting on the stool. I just happened to look down that tree. And when I looked at the base of that tree, there that big mama stood. And she was doing this. She knew I was up there. And you say, what did you do? I sat there and prayed. First I took the safety off my rifle and I put it on her. And then I sat there and prayed and I said, God, please don't let one of them little cubs get hurt over there and scream, because she's going to think I did it, and she's going to come up here and we're going to have business. And she stood there until those little fellows ate. And uh they're eating popcorn. It's nothing to see a bear eat popcorn. But them little fellows hoeing in the popcorn, when they got their little bellies full, they turned and walked away. And Jason, she looked up, she went and blew at me and turned and walked off. Just like follow me if you will, pal. Now I'll tell you, she is bad news. There's no way what uh I don't think I could have stopped her, to be honest with you. I mean she could have come up there and pulled me through there and it'd been the end of me. But you've got to remember something. God's little children have the ear of the Almighty. Pharaoh thought he was something else until the God of heaven heard their cry. Don't let the threats of this godless world make you cower in fear. I see the Apostle Paul in prison and he knows he knows what's ahead. He sees what's happening to the Christians all around him. But he wasn't cowering in fear because he had a God in heaven who heard him, and he knew this. If God wanted to, he could deliver him out of the mouth of that lion, out of the hands of that evil ruler, and he can do the same for you and me Now know this here. He's touched. He's moved. God's moved by our Christ. But not only is he touched, notice what he talks about, our troubles. He says he's touched with the feelings of our infirmities. And that's actually a very big word, a full word, because it speaks of weakness, feebleness, want of every sort. And I believe this teaches me that God's compassion is very broad. His compassion is wide. He sees, he knows, he cares. I love 1 Peter 5 7, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Church, he cares for you. You say, yeah, but but but what what I'm going through I can't put in words. Well, he cares for you. He cares for you whatever it is, whatever infirmity it is, whether it's a weakness, a sickness, a A temptation, a struggle, a trial, whatever it may be. He cares for you. He's touched with those feelings of your infirmities. Didn't notice the temptation that is mentioned in my text. For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted, like as we are. Yet without sin. Put to the test and passed with flying colors. Yet without sin The testing and victory of the Lord Jesus Christ not only is a comfort, but it's our reason that we conquer. He was without sin. Romans 8:37 says, Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. Know this: He was tested, and he passed. And he knows how to bring you through. That's why you can go to him. He was put to the test. He was put in the crucible. And my friend, he came through it. He came through it without sin. He knows, you remember the old song, My Lord Knows the Way Through the Wilderness? All I have to do is follow He was put to the test. He was put to the test. He was tempted by the devil. He was tested by man. He was put under the the microscope of religious groups. that look for flaws and in all of this the scripture declares, He's without sin. That's why you've got a high priest you can go to. With the calm assurance that he knows what I'm facing and he knows what I'm fighting and he knows the way to win. He knows the vic listen, he is the victory. Now, church, remember this. This is that personal aspect of prayer. You don't go to a God who's who's a god of stone and has no feeling. He's keenly, keenly aware of what you face, and he sympathizes in all of life's troubles and trials. He knows. You know, I feel bad for a generation of people that are that are living without this knowledge, that think there's no one to whom they can go. That maybe they can go to a parent or they can go to this person or they can go to the their peers or this or someone in a position and yet how many all of us have found every one of those people to fail us In fact, that's what all man all mankind will do at some point or another. But I'm glad I'm not talking about just a man. I'm talking about the great high priest who's passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, and beloved, he will not fail. He'll not fail. He'll not turn a deaf ear to a troubled soul. He 'll not turn the blind eye to a suffering, struggling saint. No, no. That cry is going to be heard. It's that song I I the kids used to sing it, Your Cries Have Awakened the Master. Huh? Aren't you glad sometimes boy you cry out and boy you know he's hearing? The change may not come like you wanted, or the circumstances may not alter like you desire, but I'm glad there's a God in heaven who's listening. And he's working according to his will. I notice with me quickly the possibility of prayer in verse 16 Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. I love the fact that when you pray, you leave the realm of impossibility and inability, and you move into a realm of endless possibility where God can do all things. I mean when you pray down here, you're looking at a situation you can't fix. Or you're looking at a a problem that you can't solve, or you're looking at a need that you can't meet. But my friends, you'll never lay something before God he can't handle. He'll never send back the request and say rejected due to insufficient funds. He'll never send back and say, I I can't can't handle that today, got too much on my plate. I'm glad he's a God who's able. We were talking about yesterday George Mueller and what a man of faith he was, but a man of prayer. And he would pray and God would do things that you wouldn't believe if it weren't for Christians writing it down saying, This is what God did. And reading his journals, I read, I don't know how many times they would be sitting at a breakfast table and no breakfast to eat And he would instruct the children to bow their heads and thank the Lord for what they were about to receive, knowing full well there was nothing to receive in the kitchen. And say, Lord, we want to thank you for what you're going to provide, and then and have to go to the door and there be what God provided, just in a nick of time. Now, friend, that's the Lord. That's what prayer will do. That's what God does when people pray, when Christians call on God. He does the impossible. He is still the God of the impossible. I think we live in an age where we're awful impressed with the abilities of men and we forget the supernatural power of God. I don't care how big man gets as far as his skills and knowledge and accomplishments, he'll never outdo the Lord. They're talking about this uh artificial intelligence. I've been following that some. We don't even have genuine intelligence much anymore, let alone artificial intelligence. But it it it intrigues me that this artificial intelligence is doing so much of the thinking for us and accomplishing so many things. When Sarah was here on staff, she was showing me uh how this this program would type letters. You tell it about five or ten key things. And it would spit out a letter. I mean, she she put put one together for me. It was for the mission and and she brought it in there and I said, Sarah, your education paid off, girl. You're getting pretty smart. And she said, Dad, I gotta tell you something. I didn't write that. I said, who in the world wrote it? She said, this program of artificial intelligence that she she said, put it on your computer, watch this And and we put it in Marin. Wasn't much longer after that Brother Gerald Filder was here and uh Brother Filder he said, Watch this He he had a program there on his computer and he said, I want to show you something. He said, You don't think we're in trouble. Look at what this will do. And he put in he put in like ten key words and gave the command, produce a sermon. And you know that thing generated an outline? And and he he he also he had put in there orthodox slash fundamental, so that what it taught was in line with what that meant. Oh wow. Now listen, I I don't think we know the half of it really. And I think we're going to see that invade our lives more and more. But yet, what that does is it brings us to the point where we've got to decide: is there a God bigger than all of this? British teens were asked, do they believe, did they believe that God understand computers? And do you know something like 80-something 87 % of those teenagers said God doesn't understand computers? And I thought, what a shame. The God of heaven that I read about in this Bible blows my puny little mind. He's not a God that you can figure out with a computer program. He's bigger than all of that. And know that when you pray, that's to whom you pray. You pray to the God that parts C's. Stops the Son. The God in heaven who holds all things together and by Him, all things consist. There's not a thing, my friend, alive today that God hasn't permitted it to live. That's how big he is. Oh, my friend, we're not subject to Mother Nature, Father Time. We all live under the domain of Almighty Father God in heaven who rules and reigns above. Oh, brother, sister, know this today that there's a great possibility in prayer. And look at this. We're given an invitation. Look what he says. Let us therefore come boldly. Now I like that word therefore because it reaches way back up there in all that's already been taught and pulls it down here to what he's about to say. And he says, Let us therefore come boldly. All that we've already said, the great high priest, Jesus the Son of God. The one who's touched with the feelings of our firmness. Put all of that together. Bring all that together and do this. Come boldly. Come boldly. Now he didn't say come arrogantly, he said come boldly. I've heard men pray, and it's made me shudder inside that they'd talk to God like that. God's not just someone you order around. God's not an individual that you and I, you know, boss and and uh give our grocery list to and say fill it. But he did say come boldly. That means come confidently. Come with the assurance. How can I go to God with confidence and come to God with assurance? Because he's my high priest. Jesus, the Son of God. He's my Savior, and I can come and stand before God, not in my own merit, not in my own sin, but in the precious blood of the Lord Jesus, and know that I've got an audience with God because the God of heaven Recognizes me as his child through the Lord Jesus Christ. So I see the invitation, but notice the distinction. He says, let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. Of all the things the Bible says, I'm glad he said it is a throne of grace. You know, I can understand being summonsed to a throne of judgment. I get that. How many of you were never surprised when you got called to the principal's office? I mean when you heard your name, man, I shuddered when I heard that. You remember those old intercoms and they'd crackle when whoever in the office got on them? Mr. Warren, he was he was an old Methodist lay preacher, actually, was my first principal. And I can still hear his voice. That inner commcracker. Jamie Groom's report to the principal's office And I knew I wasn't going up there to fellowship. I wasn't going up there to hear the Bible taught. I wasn't going up there to be encouraged in him to tell me what an A-plus student I was. I knew what I was going for. I knew exactly why. I wasn't shocked by it when it came across. I mean, I knew the sin I had committed and the crime I'd done. And when he summons me, I knew it. But for God to tell me to come to the throne of grace boldly, does that not just blow you away, spirits? God would say to me, come talk to me and come and we'll meet at the throne of grace. We'll not meet at a seat of judgment where you'll be dealt with according to your sin, but you'll be meeting me at a throne of grace where I'll deal with you in great mercy. Oh, what a Savior Jesus is And what a wonderful salvation. My oh my. Well, I sure didn't feel much like preaching when I started, but I'm getting there close. What a wonder. What a wonder. That the sinful can go to a seat of grace. That that you can approach God That ought to humble us before him and say, Lord, I don't know why you'd do do that or allow that, but God thank you for grace. Not only the distinction, but notice the reception. Look what it says. That we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Do you know those two things cover every need? There is nothing unaddressed in that statement. Nothing. Do you have sins that need to be forgiven? There's mercy to be found. That you may obtain mercy. Do you have a situation that needs resolving? There's grace, God's grace. That grace that can work in ways that you can't When Paul had a sickness that he couldn't overcome, he said, Lord, take it from me. Take it from me. Three times, take it from me. And the Lord said, No, but I'll do something better. I'll give you grace. Sufficient grace. Grace that will be just enough. Grace that will be all that you need. And you know something? There's not one thing you'll come up against that either mercy or grace or both Is not the answer for. And here's what he said. Come. So you can obtain and find grace to help in time of need. If you're sitting here or listening today and you're not saved, run to this throne. Because Jesus Christ will give saving grace. Somebody said recently, I c I just can't be a Christian. I said, well nobody can. But he can make you one Make you one. I can't will myself a Christian no more than you can will yourself some other species. But God can't. God can make me a child of God. He did when he saved me. And friend listen, He can do He can He can give the same grace. If you're not saved, there's saving grace available. Run to Him. You'll not find it. Go into the altar of a church and somebody giving it to you through a piece of paper or shaking your hand or signing a card, you'll not get that grace by getting in a baptismal tank You'll not get that grace by going through some sort of religious exercise, and you'll not get that grace by trying to change your life and straighten it up. And living right. You'll only get it when you come to the throne of grace and obtain mercy from God who saves old sinners. That's the only way to get grace. You may be a Christian here today with a heavy load. You might be like that prodigal who's out there in the hog pen. Oh, you say, preacher, I'm not living like he did. No, not on the outside, but on the inside you are. And you know what you need? You need mercy and grace. You know what that boy found? That boy found when he went back to the Father. He didn't meet him at a throne of judgment, he met him right at a place of grace. And and somebody said he that that boy that boy and his father met at the at the intersection of mercy and grace, right where they met together. And the father fell on his neck and kissed him, welcomed him home. And my friend, if you're a backslider, not right with God, out of fellowship with the Lord, I'll tell you what you need to do. You need to go to him. You need to go to him. Dear brother, sister, you're burdened down fighting something you don't see an end to or up against a situation you don't see a solution. You know where you need to go, you need to go to the Lord. You need to run to this throne of grace. There's help to be had here. You know I'm convinced more than ever that prayer is the answer. Prayer is the answer for whatever it is we're up against. We're living in an age, and you know, churches are really pushing uh publicity and they're pushing programs and they're pushing all of these things and we don't hear much anymore about just praying. But I'm here to tell you if anything's going to change, it'll be done down on our knees. It'll be as God's people get serious and just start saying, God, we need your help. Lord, would you look our way? This country will not be turned around by a political party, but I believe it can be turned around by praying men and women. This this country will not change by voting some out and putting some in. It'll only change when some people get on their knees and get a hold of the ear of God and bring intervention from above. This local church won't make a difference in this community simply by doing all the things that we think we can do. I'll tell you where we'll make a difference. We'll make a difference on our knees seeking God, asking Him to intervene and work Mother and Dad, your home needs the help of heaven in it. Your children need the help of heaven in their lives These kids are growing up in a world you and I never had to face and know very little about. But you know something? It's not bigger than him. And if you do anything, teach your children how to pray and get a hold of God, because he's going to be the answer when you're dead and gone. He's going to be what they need. Boy, it comforts my heart to know my kids can get a hold of the Lord. God may choose to take me out of here and whatever He chooses to do, but know this. I'm glad, listen, if they don't have daddy to help them, they've got a God in heaven who can They got a God who can who can hear their prayers and who will move on their behalf. You go out and serve the Lord, you better know how to pray. Because all of your charisma and personality and all of your connections will not get things done like getting a hold of God. Let me ask you again. Do you pray? Do you pray? When I study this, you know what I ask? I have to ask the question, why would you not pray? When I read these three verses, I sat in my office this week and I said, Lord, why would I not pray? Why would I read that and not pray? You know something? Prayerlessness is evidence. Of godlessness. The book of Revelation, I read of a bunch of people who under severe judgment from God, you know what they do? They don't cry to God, they cry to the rocks and mountains. You notice that? They say the rocks cover us up. The day of his wrath has come. We don't want to say, instead of crying out for mercy, they're crying out to be covered up, and such is the darkness of man's heart. Let me say to you today, you better start crying to God. You know there's praying. There's praying going on in hell You say, prove it. Well, Jesus taught us that there was a man who said, Send me a drop of water. He's praying. They're crying out, but his prayer's too late. Don't be a person sit on the pew of a church showing the way. Miss heaven. End up in hell. Oh, you'll pray. You'll pray like you've never prayed, but it'll be prayers that are prayed too late. And I don't know about you. I don't want to save all my praying for when I'm a dying. Because you may not be able to. My dear mother, she went to heaven. We were talking that day. God gave her an un. She had been almost comatose for several weeks, and we drove in from Canada And got in on Friday, Saturday, she rallied around and was normal, to the point that by the end of the day, hospice was saying, we're gonna have to put her in a hospital because she's not really dying, she's still alive. And it was it was just unusual, but it was the Lord. And I had some time alone. I sp I stayed the night there with Mom and we were talking, and I said, Mom Are you spending some time praying? Have you been able to pray? Here's what she said. She said, honey, I've been so sick, it's hard to pray. I just find it hard to pray. Her body was shutting down. She's getting ready to leave My pastor's wife came in, Sister Musette, she's in heaven now too. And Musette came over and she's talking to mom. I heard mom say that again. She said Musette, I'm finding it hard to pray. And really what was happening, she was building to a she had a heart attack that night and left this world about twelve hours later. But Musette said these words. She said, Carol, you've done your praying. Now it's time to do you dying. I wanna do my praying while I'm living. So when it comes time to do my dying, that's all I gotta do. You and I better do or praying while we're living. Do you pray? Let's stand together. Far pianists have come. I don't want us to sing. You just