The Lord Jesus said, He said, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. I'm thankful that his truth displaces my fears. Thank God for the Word of God. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to 2 Peter chapter number 1. 2 Peter chapter number 1. And I want to read Verses one down to verse number four. But we're going to spend our time this morning in verse number one. 2 Peter chapter number 1. If you're able, would you stand with me? We'll honor the reading of God's Word. I'm going to read these four verses in your hearing. Simon Peter, a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ To them that have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. According as his divine power hath given unto us, all things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue. whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises, that by these you might be partakers of the divine nature having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. I want you to look back up at verse number one. As Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ , these two words, this one word in particular, got my attention. Them. To them. But Lord helping me, I want to preach about them. Father, we thank you again for an opportunity to be in your word. We pray just now that you'll separate us from the cares of life, the distractions of the hour, and fix our eyes afresh on Thee. Help us, Lord, to see those things that you want us to see. And Lord, if there be a soul here today lost, I pray the Spirit of God would find them out. Do his great office work and save them, Lord. Help us to draw near to you. Thank you for the songs we've already enjoyed and the reminders of truth that have been given in that ministry Now, Lord, please just touch and help us once more in thy word, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. I want you to notice something that Peter does in this text. Of course, under the pen of inspiration, he writes these words to them. That have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Savior Jesus Christ. You know, I'm always amazed when I read the Bible and I find out that the Bible straightens out some of the most complicated problems we have in our lives. Just by simply understanding what the Word of God says. God often has a simple solution for the complicated problems that we create in life And I believe this is one of them. You say, what are you talking about? Well have you ever heard of the caste system? In India, there is a caste system. It's been in place, uh, they believe for some three thousand years. And the whole society is affected, ill-affected, I might add, by this caste system. There are five levels of peoples. You have the priests, and then you have the warriors and the merchant landowners, and then the commoners, and then the untouchables, the outcast. And all of society is divided in one of those five categories. And by the way, whatever caste you're born into is the caste you remain in, and it dictates everything to do with your life. Where you work, where you live, who you marry, who you can befriend, all of it is uh controlled by these these five castes, these five levels of society. Now Christianity has no caste system But religious people do. The Bible doesn't layer us. It liberates us. You know today though, and you know what I'm talking about, you that have been around a while. You understand that there are those. I think we've all felt like perhaps we have been in places or around people that maybe made us feel like we did not belong. Like we were not one of them. We may not have a cast, but we we kind of layer them in the back of our minds. We have the super spiritual up here. And then we have those that are, you know, they're spiritual. And then we have another level that we call somewhat spiritual. And then we have a group that we label carnal. It's a division, brother, sister, that in the Word of God does not exist. How you view one another will be displayed by how you treat one another. How you look at each other. I think we've all lived probably long enough in this world to have been the object of someone 's peering down their long spiritual nose. And looking at us as if we're beneath them. And yet, the Bible has an answer for that sort of thing. And in the opening of this second letter to these scattered Christians, who, by the way, are trying to fit in in different societies, cultures, They've been flung out all across Asia, Bithnia. You read that in the first chapter of the first letter to these scattered strangers, these Christians who have been driven out into the then known world. And now they're trying to find their place, and perhaps some of the thinking of the world crawls in And I fear oftentimes that the culture around us influences much more than the Christ who lives within us. But the Christ who lives within us is the one who ought to reign over us, and before whom we yield ourselves and live accordingly. I want you to notice what is true about them. I'm talking about them. And I pray this morning that you're one of them. One of them that Peter described as obtaining like precious faith. By the way, this wasn't just for them. This is for you and for me. So let's look at what Peter had to say about them. Number one, I want you to notice that them That crowd, those people, they were all receivers. You might want to mark that down. They were all receivers. They had received something. Look what the Bible says, to them that have obtained like precious faith with us. They were all receivers. Now, you need to know the meaning of that little word obtained. It means to literally receive a gift. Or something that falls your lot. I believe the meaning behind that is that something that was purposefully given to you Aren't you glad salvation's not an accident? Listen, if you're sitting here saved, God didn't say oops when he brought birthed you into the family. He didn't make a mistake when he saved you. Have you ever felt like God? What do you want with the likes of me? Well, that may be the reality of how you feel, but the reality of what the Bible says Is that, my friend, you were created in Christ Jesus unto good works before the world began. And so your salvation is no mistake. It was purposefully We see not only the meaning of that word obtained, but the message behind it. What is the message behind it? It's very simply this. Every Christian became a Christian the same exact way. No one was brought in under privileges. No one was born, you ever hear that saying, born with a silver spoon in their mouth? Well, there's no such animal in the family of God. We were all born the same way. The Bible says, but as many John chapter 1, verse number 12, but as many as received him , there's the point. There's what it takes to get in the family. But as many as received him, to them gave he power. There's those thems again. To them gave he power to become the sons of God. Even to them that believe on his name. So I'm saying this morning that we need to understand this, that we're all receivers. Everybody who's saved, here's the danger. Sometimes after we're saved for a while, we get to thinking Maybe we deserved it. Or we get to thinking, you know, God got a pretty good deal when he got me. Now we wouldn't dare say that. That sounds too hideous. It sounds too ugly. But the reality is we sometimes think that way. But I'm grateful, my friend, when I got born again, I got the better end of the deal. I got eternal life, the forgiveness of sins. A Savior who will abide forever, the Spirit of God to indwell me. He bore my sin debt. He paid my penalty. Listen, my friend, he was the one condemned, crucified, put on a cross, died, laid in a tomb, thank God, got up again. He's the one that paid the price, and I'm the one that benefited from the work. We're all receivers. Look around you. These these Christians, these who name the name of Christ, every one of us who are saved. You all got saved. I got saved. We all got saved the same way by receiving something we did not deserve. We have obtained like precious faith. Would you look at a text over here in First Corinthians? I believe it's chapter number four. Verse number seven. First Corinthians chapter four, verse number seven. Listen to this. Look at it, please. For who maketh thee to differ from another? Have you ever just stopped and asked that question? Who maketh thee to differ from another? And what hast thou that thou didst not receive? Have you got anything that God did not first give you? I'm talking about first eternal life. Listen, you didn't earn it. No one ever did or will. The only way you get eternal life is to receive it as a gift from the hand of a merciful God. What do you have that you did not receive? Now, if thou didst receive it, why dost thou glory? As if thou hadest not received it? In other words, why do you boast about something that was given to you that wasn't yours to start with, that you had no hand in in creating? It's something God gave you. There's no g you have no room to glory. What I'm trying to say, church, is that when you look at each other and especially when you look at yourself, we need to remind ourselves that we're all receivers. We've all and I'm talking about those who have who have trusted the Lord Jesus and been born again. You're a receiver of the gift of eternal life. And do you you know where all the glory goes? All the glory goes to God. All the glory goes to the Lord Jesus and his mercy in saving you. Folks, listen. Not one of us have anything to boast of except Jesus. If you've been saved three years, 30 years, or 300 years, it does not matter. You got saved by grace through faith, and God alone deserves the glory. He made you a Christian. He made us Christians. We're all receivers. We we can't boast of anything we've earned. We can't put pins in our own cap or feathers in our own cap or merits to our own badge. Listen, we all have to there's going to come a day My friend, when we get home to heaven, there's going to be an awesome realization that I am here on the merits of another. My sister, my baby sister sings a song, and it has this phrase in it, the one who brought me here taught me to say, I came by grace. I'm here by grace. We'll bow our heads, give glory to God, look to the Lamb of God. Listen, we'll acknowledge that we're not here. because we belong to Marinatha Baptist Church. We're not here because we were Baptists. We are not here because we live good, holy, moral, upstanding lives. We're not here because we deserve to be. We're here because King Jesus made a way, suffered, died, shed his blood, paid my debt, and set me free by his full and marvelous grace. Everybody's a receiver. Everybody's a receiver. You know what religion says? Religion says you helped out You got something to talk about. You've got something to boast about. Why, look what a good Christian you are. You deserve a little credit. How many of you know that were God in his infinite power to take his hand off of you, where you'd be? Where would we be? Where would your life be if the Spirit of God did not live inside of you? The Bible says if you're saved, you have the Holy Ghost living in you. You know, a Christian just can't get by doing any old thing he wants. God won't let him. I know there's surely some of you old enough that paid a few trips to the woodshed when you were a kid and you were bad. Maybe it wasn't the woodshed. For me, it was a literal woodshed. We went to the woodshed. But we weren't down there to light up wood. We were down there to light up something else. We weren't starting fires in the woodshed , at least not with firewood. You know what I'm talking about. And if you belong to Him, the Spirit of God in you does not let you go your own way. My friend, let me say this: if sin doesn't trouble you, it ought to trouble you. If sin don't trouble you, there ought to be something in you alarmed this morning. And you say, but preacher, I've prayed prayers. Hey friend, listen. Praying prayers is no different, if you will, in many ways, than rubbing beads and lighting candles. That's not going to save you. Jesus saves you. Jesus alone. And my friend, you and I need to understand something this morning. If sin doesn't bother you, then you need to be alarmed over the fact that it could be that you've never been born again from above. We're all receivers. We're all receivers. And you know something? This takes away, this removes all reason for glorying. Now I said that Christianity has no caste system, but religious people do. Religious people often layer themselves like this. Well, I'm better than him. I'm better than her. I don't do that. Friend, let me remind you of something. Nobody's better than. You might be better off, but you ain't better than You're better off if you're saved by the grace of God because you're no longer headed to hell. You're better off because your sin has been put away Under the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, you're better off because you have the Holy Ghost living in you. You'll never be better than We're all receivers. And receivers recognize God alone gets the glory. Let me show you something else I believe is in this text. As Peter writes to them, he said to them, them, that have obtained like precious faith with us. If you're making notes, you might want to put this down. We all are receivers, all who are saved are receivers, and all who are saved are equals. Look what it says. We have received like or obtained like precious faith with us. Can I ask you a question? What was Peter? What was his official title? Peter was an apostle. He was an apostle. In fact, as an apostle, he held a unique position in the fact that he would be part of the of the building of the framework of the local church. Jesus Christ is the foundation. The Bible says on that foundation is laid the apostles. And then on that foundation you build is the building of the church. And so he held a very unique position, but look what he said to those believers. He said, We you we're equals. You've obtained like precious faith with us. We're on the same level. Listen, my friend, the great message of the Scriptures is that those who are saved equally share in something of great value. I like it how old one one old preacher put it. He said, we're millionaires and what matters. I'm looking at a house full of millionaires and what matters. I'm looking at men and women who are spiritual millionaires. You've obtained like precious faith. And the beauty of this is that only the gospel of Jesus Christ does this. Now here's the message of that text. There's no levels in the Lord's family. By the way, there's no half-saved, almost saved. You're either lost or you're saved. You're either in or you're out. You're either going to heaven or you're on the very road itself to hell right now. You're on one of the two. There's no middle ground. There's no middle ground with the Lord. And you know something? The gospel of Jesus Christ levels the ground and elevates all who step on to it to the same privileges throughout the family. Only the gospel can do that. Only the gospel can do that. Look over here at Matthew 23 real quick. Matthew chapter number twenty-three and let's start reading in verse number eight. The Gospel of Matthew, chapter 23, and verse 8. Notice what it says. But Be not ye called rabbi, for one is your master, even Christ, and all ye are brethren. Notice he's addressing a situation in the day. Because the rabbis were respected and revered, Jesus said, That's not going to work in this family. We don't elevate men to that place and and and and a place of rev revering them. And by the way, I don't like the term reverend. I'm not reverend. There's one reverend, that's the Lord Jesus. I'm a pastor, I'm an under-shepherd, a preacher of the gospel. That just describes my responsibility in this body. We revere one. That's the Lord Jesus. But notice this, he said, You've got one master, and all ye are brethren. Call no man your father upon the earth, for one is your father which is in heaven. Neither be ye called masters, for one is your master, even Christ. But he, verse 11, that is greatest among you, shall be your servant. You know what he's saying here? He's saying the ground is level at Calvary. The family of God is on an equal playing field. I'm going to tell you something. There's been a lot of damage done in our churches through the ages. By individuals lording over God's heritage, by lifting themselves up, saying, You've got to listen to me You've got to respond. Now listen, I appreciate the respect that is given to the office of pastor And I appreciate all of that goes along along with that, and I understand why we do that. I'm not preaching against that. I'm just simply pointing out the fact That we've got to remember that when it comes to being Christians, the ground is level. We're equals in the eyes of God. Listen, my friend, no man has access that another man don't have. We all go to God the same way. We all pray on the same ground. We all bow at the same throne. We all got the same ear. If we're right with God and saved. Listen, there's nobody got an inside with the Lord. Now the religious crowd will tell you different, but the Bible says something opposite. We have access to God through the Lord Jesus. Every listen, if you're it always bothered me, especially when we were working in predominantly Roman Catholic areas, when somebody would say, Would you pray for me? Because I felt like perhaps some of that thinking that goes along with that a priest or a pastor or somebody has more of an ear to God than someone else. And I would always say, but remember, you can pray for yourself if you know the Lord Jesus. You can pray yourself. You can talk to the Lord yourself. You don't need somebody to go. I'm glad, listen, friend, there's one mediator between God and men. It's the man Christ Jesus. I don't have to go and somehow or another access God through religious hierarchy. I have a redeemer. I've been bought by his blood. I've been saved by his grace, and he opens the door. My friend, that's the gospel message. It's a great equalizer of men. And then notice the last thing that's said here. The Bible go back to our text in 2 Peter chapter number 1. To them that have obtained like precious faith with us. Look at this now. Through the righteousness of God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. By the way, the only righteousness a man can have is the righteousness of God through the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, what is righteousness? Righteousness is God's perfection. Righteousness is the currency of heaven Righteousness is what God demands that you and I can't produce. The Old Testament prophet said, All your righteousnesses are as filthy rags. All the good that I could ever do is never good enough. It doesn't add up. I mean you can do all the you can live a lifetime of goodness, and that doesn't equal righteousness. It may be goodness But it's not righteousness. Righteousness is something that God gives to those who believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And he does what the Bible says. Here's a Bible term. He imputes righteousness to those who exercise faith in the Lord Jesus. Listen to Romans 4. Verse number 22. He's talking about Abraham here and says, And therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness. Now it was not written for his sake alone, but it was imputed to him, and that just simply means transferred to his account. Put on his account. It was imputed to him, but for us also, to whom it shall be imputed, if we believe on him that raised up Jesus, our Lord, from the dead. who was delivered for our offenses and was raised again for our justification. My friend, do you get a hold of that? Can you see that? That the moment you believe God imputed to you the righteousness of God in the person of Jesus Christ. Now you say, but preacher, I've failed awful. I've struggled this week. I fought the flesh and the world the devil. I've had all sorts of battles, but if you're truly saved by the grace of God, let me say this in the eyes of our Holy Father, he sees nothing but absolute righteousness on your account. It's been imputed to you. That's why you can bow your head and pray with boldness, because you've got one in the heavens, whoever lives to make intercession for you. That's why you, my friend, can with peace in your heart believe on the Lord Jesus and know the joy of sins forgiven, because he gives you something you don't have, nor could you ever get any other way, but he puts it on your account complete and full. Complete and full. Righteousness. That third word I want you to see is that we're righteous. Them who have obtained like precious faith with us, they're not only receivers and they're not only equals, but they're righteous. God says some things in the Bible that I wouldn't believe if God didn't say them. But God said them, and I have to believe it. God said that Lot had a righteous soul. Can I confess something? That's hard for me to believe. It's hard for me to believe that Lot lived like Lot lived and he still had a righteous soul. The Bible says it vexed him. Troubled him, bothered him, tormented him, because he had a righteous soul Now, on the outside, and that's why we've got to be so careful, you and I have to be careful about determining who belongs to the Lord and who don't. There's a dear friend of mine, I love him to death, but his great downfall is, is he's always trying to figure out who's saved and who's not. And I've seen him come in and say, now preacher, I'm sure this man's lost. I saw him do this and so, and I am convinced he's not a Christian. And the very next week, well, you know, I heard him say this, and I think he might just be saved. He could be a Christian And I'm thinking you're trying to figure out something only God really knows. But I'm glad God knows The Bible says he knoweth them that are his. He knows who belongs to him. I don't have to run myself mad trying to figure it out. But Lot had a righteous soul. And I look at Lot and I say, there's no way that man could have a righteous soul. But God said he had it. And let me say this, you and I need to remember. That the righteousness of God is not in my hands or yours to determine the presence or absence of Be careful. Most of you got your kids raised, but you got grandkids. Be careful about pronouncing judgments that you have no grounds upon which to pronounce. Well now, if you as a Christian, you wouldn't act that way. I'm gonna tell you something. A spiritual bullying. A lot of times that's what it is. How many of you as an adult, if God had said, you ain't acting like you're a Christian? Would have to stand and say, preacher, this week there was a time or two I didn't act like a Christian. Huh? Let's just be honest. I know we're in church and we're trained to play games, but please don't play them here. The reality is that, listen, there are times I don't know what it is. There are certain roads around here that when you get on them, at least for me, it's hard to act like a Christian. I have to pray for extra grace. Anyone else that way? I mean there you when I pull on I-95 there's a whole new mindset takes over. And it's sort of like you know you're in a race and a tank all at the same time. And you gotta survive to the other end. That's kind of how I feel. Every time I get on that highway, I feel like if I get to the other end, it'll be the mercies of God. Years ago, when I first started pastoring, I pastored a little country church just outside of Maggie Valley. We lived across the mountain in a little community called Bethel. We had to cross the mountain every time to go to church. It was 40 minutes, 45 minutes. And inevitably in the summertime we would have people from a certain state that I'll not mention that was vacationing in our little community. And they would drive those mountain roads in a way like something was going to drag them off the side. I mean, they were just double handing those steering wheels. And just watching every little curve and and you know I would always get behind someone like that when I was late for church And there were times that my flesh overcame my faith. I'll just say that way. And one morning I I was I was just whiskers of being there on time. And this person had pulled out in front of me just as I come out of the driveway and went the whole way across the mountain. All the way down through the valley. And finally, right before you get to the church, that the highway doubled, and so you could pass. And as we come around and I had the opportunity to pass, man, I pass, and I just had this overwhelming urge to look at a mean. That 's all I could get by with at the moment. And I just went by looking at him like, get a driver's license or something And we get to church. I'm flying in, getting my Bible, getting ready to go, and guess who pulls in the parking lot I got a good look of their face, they got a good look of my face. And I run in, get ready, and go about and I come out to preach, and when I do sitting about where Richard and Anne are. There sat that person who did not know how to drive. But standing in that pulpit was that preacher who didn't know how to act. If I if listen, I believe the Bible's against women preachers, but that morning I'd let a woman preach if she'd have been willing to, so I didn't have to face those people I'm just saying there are segments in our lives. You can look at somebody and say there's no way that person's a Christian. But if they have the righteousness of Jesus Christ, they have a righteousness that will never be removed. It's given freely. This righteousness takes away all bits of boasting. It takes away All of my bragging. It takes away all of my reasons for uh for for saying, look at me, listen, the only thing we can all do is bow our heads collectively. And say, look at the mercy and grace of God that's been demonstrated to a sinner like me. Righteousness. Now, in God 's family, in God's family, there's a lot of things that don't matter. I said we don't have a caste system, but we divide ourselves up sometimes by what we have or what we don't have, who we are, our family name, or In our circles of churches sometimes, the circle of churches we run in, and we put all of that stuff up there and somehow or another feel better about ourselves. But can I remind you, my friend, that according to the Word of God, them, if you're a part of them, you're all receivers, we're all receivers, we're all equals. And we're all righteous through the Lord Jesus Christ. I love Spurgeon, you know that. And in reading about the tabernacle there in London, This has always stuck with me. It was reported in newspapers. It was reported in his own personal writings. It was stated from the pulpit in his message. Messages at times. That one of the beauties of the tabernacle there in London was that on the same row you might have a banker and a pauper, a poor man, sitting side by side. They would stand and share hymnals and sing out of the Psalter together. They would sing those great hymns of the Psalms. They would They would open their Bibles and hear the sermon together and worship the same God. And I'm here to tell you, that's the way the church ought to be. Whatever the world does, the world does. Let it be. But the church is a family. The church is a family where we're all equals. Where we're all receivers, where we're all righteous, through the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh my friend, you know what that is? You know what the church is? Have you ever thought about this? The church is a little picture of what heaven's going to be like. What heaven's going to be like. Welcome to all who come through faith to worship the Lord Jesus. Listen all in the same way. Bank accounts, family names, and all that other silly stuff, leave it outside. Nobody cares about that in here. Let me say it again. Nobody cares about that in here. If they do, they need to know their Bible a little better and realize there's a lot of stuff that don't matter. But here's what matters. Are you one of them? Are you one of them? Are you a part of them? And we're not saying join a club. We're saying trust Jesus Christ. We're not saying come do Certain things that others do. We're saying, Come, my friend, in faith, a broken, lost, hellbound sinner, and acknowledge that only Jesus can save you. And my friend, no plea for mercy will go ignored. He'll save whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord. Friend, he'll save you. He'll save you. I don't know about you, but I want this church to be a display of this teaching. I want our church to be a display of what the Bible says is true about all of those that Peter just said them. To them. Are you one of them? Friends seriously, are you one of them? You may be a member of the church and not be one of them. You might have your name on a roll somewhere and not be one of them. You might have a baptismal certificate hung up with pride somewhere, but not be one of them. One of them who've come to God through faith in the Lord Jesus. Friend, if you are one of them Oh, what a privilege it is to be. To God be all the glory. May the Lord help us to see that what God does in our lives never elevates us, but always exalts him and lifts him up. Would you stand with me, please? Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.