Today that's gonna be. Amen. Amen. For the child of God, for the one saved by grace, this world is as bad as it gets It only gets better from here. Listen, if you don't know Christ, this world is the best it gets. Well listen, I cannot impress upon you the importance of having Christ as your Savior. Receiving Christ. And um I want to preach a little bit about that tonight. John chapter 5 John chapter 5 in your Bibles tonight. While you're turning there, let me uh just take the opportunity to thank Maranatha Baptist Church once again for all your kindness to us. I know you wanted to make sure you brought plenty of food, and let me tell you, you brought more than enough. Amen. Exceeding abundantly above all that we could ever ask or eat. Amen. And uh so thank you for that. We've lived like kings this week. Thank you for a good place to stay. And uh your kindness toward us. Thank you for the fellowship and and uh different ones have done special things for our family this week. And we appreciate that. We really do. I said it on Sunday, but I greatly treasure the friendship of your pastor. And his family, uh, to us. And um it's a great influence in my life. And uh Uh you you know, you don't have to be loud and boisterous to be an influence. And um I appreciate Brother Jamie Grooms and um Thankful for his walk with the Lord. And I don't say that lightly. And I've seen him go through a lot of trials. and a lot of hardships and uh a lot of questions and just to see him trust the Lord through it all great example to all of us. And uh I know he wants to give the the Lord glory and um he certainly wouldn't want me to say all that, but I felt like I should. And so we are to give honor to whom honor is due. And uh you've got a faithful pastor here. And you don't need me to tell you that, you know that. But uh sometimes good to hear somebody else say it And um so I thought I'm thankful for him, thankful for this church and your faithfulness to the Word of God all these years. And um uh just to uh I been listening to that radio station this week. And it's just the old time way. Just the old time way. And I like that. We need more of that. And so thank you for holding the line. on that. John chapter 5. If you found your place, I invite you to stand with me. If you haven't found it, just stand anyway and act like you found it. Amen. John chapter 5 Beginning in verse number one. The Bible says after this there was a feast of the Jews. And Jesus went up to Jerusalem. And he said, after what? Well, the last verse of chapter 4 talks about the second miracle that Jesus did. He raised uh a boy back to life, the nobleman's son. And so now he's gone up to Jerusalem For the feast. Now look at verse 2. Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool, which is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having five porches. In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, the blind, halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water. For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool and troubled the water. Whosoever then first, after the troubling of the water, stepped in, was made whole of whatsoever disease he had. And a certain man was there which had an infirmity thirty and eight years. When Jesus saw him lie, and knew that he had been now a long time in that case. He saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole? The impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man when the water is troubled to put me into the pool. But while I am coming, another steppeth down before me. Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk. And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed and walked, and on the same day was the Sabbath I want to preach three words out of this text here this evening. And I want us to look at this story of this man and look at the truths that we can glean from it for our own lives. And uh so let's pray and ask the Lord to help us now as we look into His Word. Heavenly Father, thank you for the day you've given us. Again, Lord, you've been good to us. And Lord, we we never want to uh go without acknowledging what a good God you are to us. And Father, we now come to you again during this time. We've been praying and There's already been prayers made tonight in this service, but we're coming yet again. Lord, you tell us that we have not, because we ask not. And so, Lord, we're asking that you would do the great and mighty here tonight. God, we're asking that you would be pleased to visit with us. And Lord, as this angel came down and stirred the waters, we're praying, Lord, that you would stir the waters here tonight Father, I pray that your spirit would be at work in this place, and I pray that each and every one of us would be careful not to quench that work tonight or grieve him in any way. Father, I believe that souls are at stake in this building tonight, and eternity is before us. And David said there's but a step between him and death, and Lord, that's true for all of us. We don't know what tomorrow is going to hold. We don't know the future. Except that we know that in eternity, those who have received Christ. Will forever be in heaven with him, and those who rejected Christ will spend eternity in the lake of fire, separated from God. And Lord, our great desire and prayer tonight Is that each and everyone in this place, and each and everyone listening by way of radio, Lord, that they would all know for sure Christ is their Savior and heaven is their eternal home. Father, please do what no man can do. And Lord, we'll look to you and we'll thank you and we'll praise you for what you do. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Thank you for standing. You may be seated. We're going to get to these three words from this text here this evening in just a moment, but before we get there, I want us to consider what's going on in this story, in this passage before us. The Bible says that Jesus is coming to Jerusalem. There's a feast taking place there. And so they were gathering there together, but there's something very unusual happening. in Jerusalem at this time. This pool called Bethesda that was by the sheep market. It had five porches around it. And uh if you look this up you'll find there were porches on all four sides and then there was uh a a dividing porch really that went right down through the middle of this pool. And the Bible tells us here that at this time there was a stirring in this pool going on. At a certain season. And it does not specify what that season was. It doesn't specify uh the intervals between this visitation, but at a certain season The angel went down, an angel went down and troubled the waters. And at that moment, during that time when the water was troubled, the Bible says that the first one To get into the pool was healed of whatsoever disease he had. It was an unusual work that God was doing. We don't know how long this had been going on. We don't know how long it lasted after this time. But it was a supernatural work that the Lord was doing. Can I say this? When we look at uh all of this story, we see the angel coming down. That's supernatural. That's something that man cannot do. And you see the stirring of the water, and then uh whoever was diseased got in and was healed. That's something that's supernatural. All of it was the work of God. And all this is taking place, and I want us to understand tonight that there are things in our lives that only God can do. There are listen, there are needs in our lives that only God can meet. There are empty places in our hearts that only God can fill. And here, listen tonight, uh maybe you've come to this place, you say, Well, I'm I'm I'm looking for help, and maybe the church can help me, or maybe the Pastor can help me, and maybe the evangelist can help me, and maybe someone here can help me. Listen, we'll do all that we can, but there are some things that we cannot do. those things that are only in the arena of God and in his ability. And when it comes to the saving of a soul, that is God's business and God's alone. These people were gathered around this pool because they had sought for uh personal or uh uh they had sought for help in other people. And maybe in doctors, I'm sure, and uh remedies, and all of those had failed them. And so they realized that what they needed was something supernatural. So they're gathered around this pool, and the Lord is doing something great here. It's a heavenly visitation. You know, that's what we've been praying for in these days, and I believe the Lord has answered our prayers in many different ways. He's met with us here in this place. He's come down and we would use the word stirred, but the Bible uses the word troubled. He's come down and he's troubled the water. You know that troubling, listen, maybe you've been here this week and the Lord spoke in your heart, and maybe it's caused some anguish, maybe it's caused some concern. Maybe it's caused some questions, and maybe it's the Lord stirring and troubling the water a little bit so that you'll look out for help. It's many times in the troubling times in our lives, as we mentioned last night, that God gets our uh undivided attention. It's in those times when the Lord can really minister to our hearts and really help us, because we understand in those moments that vain is the help of man. That there are things in our lives that we would fix if we could, but they are beyond our power to fix, and we need God. And listen, I don't know where you're at personally in your life tonight altogether, but I do know this. Each and every one of us, on some level, we need God. And he may trouble the waters tonight to get our attention. And maybe he's troubling the waters in your life But I want us to understand that what God is doing here, He's troubling these waters, He's preparing this man And I believe many others here, but this certain man he speaks of in verse five, he's preparing him for a personal encounter with Jesus Christ. When God is working in our lives and when the waters are troubled, He is preparing us to have a personal encounter with Jesus. And so in this story, there's some words I want to point out, some words that really spoke to my heart, really kind of jumped off the page as I read this story some time ago. Verse number four says, For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool and troubled the water. What's that next word in your verse? Whosoever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole. The first word I want us to think of is this word whosoever. Whosoever is a great Bible word. And you say, well what does it mean? Well it's pretty descriptive, self-descriptive. It means whoever It means it does not matter, and in this story, we are told that there's a multitude of people gathered around this pool for obvious reasons. They're all there because they need something And they're all gathered around here, and it tells us there's a multitude. I'm sure they're shoulder to shoulder. I'm sure they're they're three or four or five deep. Uh they all are there to get healed. And it does not tell us that they're all Jews It doesn't tell us it was all Gentiles. It doesn't tell us there was rich there, there were poor there. Listen, it says whosoever. What a great, all-encompassing word. It did not matter who they were. The Bible says if they got in when that water was troubled, they were healed. You know, I'm so glad that the Bible teaches us that the gospel is a whosoever gospel. There's several verses in the scripture that I want to read to you tonight quickly. Matthew 10, 32 says, Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men him will I also confess before my Father, which is in heaven. Amen. Don't you like that? Matthew 18, 4 Whosoever therefore shall humble himself As this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. John 3. 16, you can probably quote it with me For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life John four thirteen Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again. Verse fourteen, but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst But the water that I shall give him shall be in him a world of water springing up into everlasting life. That world of living water is open for whosoever. John 11, 26, said whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this? I believe it. Amen. John 12, 46, Jesus said, I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness. Romans ten eleven says, for the scripture saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed. Verse thirteen says, For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved And it goes on and on. Oh, the whosoever's in Scripture, that means you. You can put your name in there. And God's promise goes to you as well as anyone that's been born in this earth. You say, well, you know, I'm my family there well that we didn't grow up Christian. It's whosoever. Every nation, every tongue, any man, any woman, any boy, any girl, any educational level, any intellectual level, any financial level you are, whatever skin color, hair color, eye color. Christ will save you. Not only is there a whosoever here, but also I see in verse number four, read with me on as uh we'll start uh at whosoever it says whosoever then first After the troubling of the water stepped in, was made whole of whatsoever disease he had Well, I like that, don't you? Not only do we preach a whosoever gospel, but we preach a whatsoever gospel. So what do you mean, preacher? I mean this. Listen, around that pool there are people that were lame. The Bible describes all the all the different people that were lame, they're impotent folk and blind and halt and withered All of them had needs, that's why they were there, but there was no qualification on what need could be met by getting into the water. There was listen, there was no disease or sickness that was stronger than the working of God to cleanse it. And I'm so glad it does not matter what you have done, the blood of Jesus Christ. God's Son cleanseth us from all sin. There's no sin too great for the grace of God where sin did abound. Grace did much more abound. I've talked to people before this saying we know I'm just a terrible sinner. There's no way that I could ever be saved. And I point them to the scripture where Jesus said this. He said, I didn't come to call the righteous. But sinners to repentance. Some people listen, some people are too righteous to be saved. You say, what do you mean, preacher? I'm talking about self-righteousness. They look at themselves, they think they're all that in a bag of chips. Listen, the Pharisees in the scripture stands as a type of those who want to stand in their own self-righteousness and think that because they're better than the next person, then God will allow them into heaven? Listen, my friend, you know who qualifies for salvation? Sinners. If you're a sinner, that's good news tonight. That means you qualify for the free gift of salvation through Jesus Christ. Though your sins may be great, and though they will unattended, they will drag you to hell. Also understand that there's no sin that is matched. Ah, for the blood of Christ. His blood cleanseth us from all sin. You know, it's good that any sin can be cleansed because any one sin will condemn. James chapter 2, verse 10 says this: For whosoever shall keep the whole law and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all. You know how many laws it takes for someone to break in order for them to be a lawbreaker? One. No one. You might leave here tonight and uh and uh you're you're on hard times. You think, well, you know There's that convenience store, and I know just when the clerk's gonna turn, and I'll just reach in there and grab some money. You know you're gonna get caught. Right? You will get caught. Whether here or there, you'll get caught somewhere So you grab the money, you jump in the car, you head home, all of a sudden you see the blue lights They drag you in, they lock you up, you pay the bill, you go home. They set a judgment date for you. You appear before the judge. The judge says, well, listen, you're guilty on this night of October, what is it, twenty-sixth? Twenty-fifth 25th, 2024, you're guilty of robbery? How do you plead? Well, Judge, let me just say this. I may have stolen that one time But you do realize I've driven past that store hundreds of times. I've been in that store dozens of times, and I've never stolen one time. This is the first time That I've ever stolen from this store. So surely I'm okay. Now listen, if he is a just judge There's going to be payment for that. There's going to be consequences for that. It does not matter all the times that you did good. All the good times do not outweigh the one bad thing that you did. You can say, listen, preacher, you know, I used to do all this, and I don't do that stuff anymore. I stopped all that bad stuff. Well, listen, if you live today, if you stop sinning today And you lived another 70 years and you never committed one sin. Guess what? You still have those sins in your past that have to be paid for. You are still guilty. You're still a lawbreaker. You say, Well What is the payment for sin? Nowadays, I mean shoplifting, they'll give you a little slap on the hand. Let you go. But God is a righteous judge. God can't let any sin go, and I'll tell you why. Because if He did, then heaven would be filled with sin. And then heaven wouldn't be heaven. And so the Lord is going to be righteous in his judgment toward us. And listen, your sin may not be as bad as the next guy, or as numerous as the next guy, but it just takes one sin To make you a lawbreaker. The payment for that sin is described in Romans chapter 6, verse 23. For the wages of sin is death. You understand what wages are. It's the payment for what you've done. You go to work somewhere and you work all week long, you get your wages at the end of that week or the end of two weeks. I don't know how far they're pushing it back now. Maybe you get it once a month. I don't know. But you get that payment for the works that you have done. When it comes to sin, you also get wages of that sin. The works that you and I have done, the payment, the wages of that sin is death. And there is no escaping that. There's no, listen, there's no aroundabout, there's no loophole. The wages of sin is death. He said, Well, is there any hope? Well, there is, because the end of that verse says, but the gift of God. is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. You say, wait a minute, I thought sin had to be paid for with death. It does. And it was. See, there's no reason for you to have to die for your sins because Jesus Christ has already died for them. He's already paid for them. And it does not matter what you have done. Look, we used to minister in the prisons, and uh and we go in there and there there were guys in there, they're they're lifers. They're not getting out. They've murdered. They've done terrible, heinous things. And they're not getting out. You know I've had I've had wonderful times of prayer. And worshiping the Lord with these men who once were sinners, lost, murderers. Thieves. And now they've been saved by the grace of God, and all those things that they once were, they are no longer When Paul lists in 1 Corinthians 6, he lists all these terrible things. And then he says, and such were some of you. He didn't say such are some of you. No, such were some of you, but you're washed. You're sanctified. You're saved, you're redeemed, the blood of Jesus Christ washes all of those sins away. You're no longer guilty before the Lord. There's no reason for God to send me to hell anymore because I'm not guilty of those sins. Did not matter what disease these people had, what ailment. You know, if you take the Bible to be literally true, and I do There could have been people here that lost a limb. Getting that water, and all of a sudden it's back. He said, Oh preacher, I don't believe that. Why not? Where do you think that we got the all these limbs in the first place? Amen. I'm saying it does not matter what you've done. The Lord Jesus Christ can save you. He can cleanse you from it. So there's a who-soever here, there's a whatsoever, but then I want us to think about this word And this word is wensoever. Now, if you're searching the text to find it, you're not going to find it. And I'll tell you why you're not going to find it. For good reason you won't find it. We do have a whosoever gospel and we do have a whatsoever gospel, but we do not have a whensoever gospel. Say what do you mean, preacher? In this story, please understand, in this story, the Bible says at a certain season, at a certain season, the angel troubled the water. It was at that moment they had to get in. What a wonderful picture of the work of grace in the heart of a sinner. That angel, that messenger, would come down from heaven and trouble that water I remember in my life, many times growing up, and I grew up in church. My dad's a preacher, and I went to church, heard the gospel all my life. I didn't get saved until I was 17 years old. That sounds young to some of you, but for those of us who grew up in church, that's not young. I had this false profession as a child. I didn't understand anything I was doing. There would be come times in my life where the preacher come uh the preacher would uh would preach uh the word of God and and and God's Spirit would come and speak to my heart and I'd I'd keep pushing them away. No, no, no. I've I've already I've already prayed. Can I just tell you something here? A prayer does not save you. It's not the words of a prayer that give you eternal life. It's Jesus Christ. And the Bible doesn't say he that hath the right doctrine hath life. He that hath the Son hath life. So the Spirit of God would deal in my heart, and I'd say, no, no, you know what? I believe that Jesus was the Son of God. I believe that He died on the cross. I believe that He rose again. Those are things that I had up here. And I understood, and I never really doubted the truth of those events. But listen, salvation is not checking off of boxes on a list of things that you believe happened. When the scripture talks about believing on the Lord Jesus Christ, it's not just saying, Oh, I believe Jesus was the Son of God. It involves trusting. It involves faith. It involves giving the keeping of your soul into his hands. I believe parachutes work, but I don't want to trust one. Come on. A lot of people believe in Jesus. The devils believe. But they're not going to heaven when they die. They're not spending they don't have their sins washed away. Please understand what I'm saying. When the scripture talks about believing, it's not just talking about having an intellectual understanding of something. It is talking about the heart. The Bible says, with the heart. With the heart, man believeth unto righteousness. With the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. You know, if you confess to, something you've done. Is that right? The heart believes God grants you salvation, and then you confess with your mouth. Amen. Not some magic words you pray. But the Spirit of God will deal with my heart and I try to push them away. And you know, that uh on August 9, 1995, the Spirit of God dealt with my heart so strongly, we're in a camp meeting. In Fishersville, Virginia. And our family had just got up to sing. My four older brothers, my mom, we would sing And dad would preach, and there's a different preacher that night at the camp meeting. He got up and preached. And I sat there, I was on the second row, right about over here, and I sat there under such conviction. And I was struggling with my pride. I didn't want to admit that I was lost because I was a singer. Listen, gospel singers need to be saved. I had stood up, I had stood and preached. Guess what? Gospel preachers need to be saved. God doesn't have any grandchildren. God dealt with my heart and I fought that conviction and I and I I made it through the service But I'm so thankful the Spirit of God did not leave me alone. He continued to work on my life. Listen, I had a terrible night that night. I couldn't sleep. I'm a seventeen year old young man. I mean sleeping is one of my best things I I'm good at. Right Couldn't sleep all night long. I was dealt with in my heart. I was afraid if I went to sleep, I'd wake up in hell. Miserable all that night and all the next day, sat through the morning service, miserable all afternoon. The children, the young people were out playing volleyball and tetherball and this and that. I couldn't enjoy any of it. That next night, August 10th, 1995, I was right back there in that same seat. We got up and sang like we did every service. The preacher got up to preach. I can tell you what he preached somewhere in Timothy. But I was under conviction from the night before. Now struggling. That struggle in my heart. What are people going to think? What are they going to say? You know what? I got down to the end of myself, and I realized I don't care what anybody says, I've got to get right with God. I've got to trust Christ as my own personal Savior. I'm not going to hell for anyone. And I knew, listen, I and maybe maybe you don't believe this, but I knew somehow in my heart, I knew the Spirit of God was saying, You better move tonight. You better move tonight. You know what the Bible says? What God said? My spirit shall not always strive with man. Know the scripture says, seek ye the Lord while he may be found. You know what that means? You're not just going to come to God anytime you want to come to God. He's not at your beck and call. He's calling for you to come. His spirit was striving with me. And I'm so thankful that night I just chucked my pride. I came down to the altar and I probably got saved before I got to the altar. They had they had chairs over here on the side, those old theater chairs that folded down. And I went over there, but I think I got saved before I got there. You want to hear my fancy prayer? Lord save me. Lord save me. I just called out to him. And that night, August tenth, nineteen ninety-five, I was seventeen years old. I got born again I passed from death unto life, and that there was no great shining star that lit over me, but there was a peace and an assurance that Christ had heard my prayer. I took God at His word. I trusted what He said, and I gave Him the keeping of my soul, and I know whom I have believed, and I'm persuaded that He is able to keep that which I've committed. I'm damn against that day. But I knew I'd better move that night. There was a season when the water was stirred. That was the time for healing. Now, maybe you're like this man here. You notice this man in our story, this certain man who had this infirmity, he never did get it in the water. Did you notice that? And yet he's still left healed. You see, he said, I don't have the strength to get in. I've got no one to help me. I can't get myself in there. Listen, you know what I had to realize? I couldn't save myself. All the good works that I was doing, the good deeds and the singing and all that stuff. That wasn't making points for me up in heaven with God. He wasn't uh you know, he wasn't taking every good work and setting it on a scale and saying, well, you know, it's going to outweigh the bad things he's done. No No, I couldn't get myself in. I couldn't save myself. I couldn't help myself. But you know what? I I wanted to be right with God. And so you know somebody came by my way. Just like he came by this man's way. When I could not come to where he was, he came to me. He had that desire. Jesus knew that in verse number six. Jesus saw him lie and knew that he had been a long time in that case. Jesus knows all about you. He knows how long you've been dealing with this. He knows how long you've been struggling with your salvation. He knows how long you've been fighting. But he came to him, and he saith unto him , Wilt thou be made whole? Simple question. Do you want to be whole? Do you want to be changed? Do you want to be different? Do you want to be cleansed? Listen, I wanted to go to heaven. Amen. When the Lord's dealing to me, I sure didn't want to go to hell. I wanted to be in heaven with the Lord, but let me tell you what else I was wanting. I was wanting to have forgiveness for my sins. That's how you know, listen. That's how you know when the Spirit of God's dealing with you. It's not just about punching your ticket to heaven It's about this desire to be freed and cleansed from that load of sin that weighs upon you. Thy guilt And listen, you say I I just feel so guilty. That's because you are guilty. But Jesus Christ Died on the cross, he paid the penalty for all of your sins, so you do not have to bear that guilt any longer. I wanted to be changed. I wanted to have power to live differently than what I lived before You say, well, preacher, you were you were in church and you were, yeah, I was doing all the right things on the outside, but my heart was so black with sin. I was on the inside looking out, waiting for my opportunity to get out there and fulfill all the things that I thought would bring me peace. I thought it would bring me fulfillment and bring me pleasure. I I uh my heart was out there But God began to deal with my life, and I didn't want that anymore. I wanted to be right with God. He said, Well, you can't get in the water, you can't make the angel move You can't help yourself, but I can come to you. I can help you I can heal you. You see, all of this that was being done , it wasn't the water that was healing these people. It wasn't the angel. It was God. No, we're Baptists here. Amen? Okay, that was kind of weak. We're Baptists here, amen. We got a baptistry right there. Some churches, even though they have a baptistry, they'll baptize in a lake or something like that. We baptize believers. Believe the Bible teaches that Let me tell you, you can get dipped in the baptismal a dozen times and still die and go to hell. It's not the water that'll s that'll cleanse you. You can join the church, be on the church roll, and still die and go to hell. You can give to the church. You can be faithful to attend. You can send your kids to Sunday school. You can go to Bible college. You can sing in the choir. You can preach. You can sing specials. You can teach. Listen, you can be a deacon. And still die in your sins. Because listen, none of those things make you a Christian. All of these things, the Lord used these things to get people's attention, but you know what it really was? It was drawing everybody's attention to that one man, the man Christ Jesus. And tonight he's who you need. He is who you need. Well preacher, I I need help with my finances. No, you need the Lord. I need help in my family. You need the Lord. I need help on the job. You need the Lord. I need help in my heart. You need the Lord. And isn't it good to know that him who cometh to him, he will in no wise cast out. He's never turned away one person, not one. I love that old song, Know Not One. What's that one verse about, uh, did every saint find this friend, forsake him, Know not one? No not one. Will he refuse us a home in heaven? No, not one. No, not one. Jesus knows all about our struggles. He will guide till the day is done. There's not a friend like the lowly Jesus. No, not one. He wants to be your friend. He wants to heal you. He wants to help you. He wants to save you But this word of warning tonight, don't just think you can come to the Lord anytime you want. He's not a genie in a bottle. While the Spirit of God is speaking to you, harden not your heart. Don't get a hard heart. Respond to the Lord. The Spirit of God speaking to your heart tonight about being saved. Don't put it off. Don't say I'll do it tomorrow. Boast not thyself of tomorrow. Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Get it right tonight. I believe with all my heart, I believe we're listen, I believe we are close to the coming of the Lord. I believe we're so close. And there's gonna come a time when that trumpet's gonna sound and all of us who know the Lord In the twinkling of an eye, we'll be gone. We're getting out of here. Gone Then the dead in Christ will rise. They'll rise first, actually. And then we'll we'll we'll get caught up. Amen? Be faster in Johnny's truck. That's our blessed hope. But listen, if you're here tonight, you're not saved. You're not going up. You're not going up. You'll be left behind What a solemn, sad, sobering thought to think about tonight. There could be people in this building tonight if the trumpet sounded right now There'll be people still here, still sitting here. And you'll know in a moment, you'll know exactly what happened. You say, oh preacher, then I'll just get saved after that. No. No, you won't. No, you won't. Scripture says that there'll be a strong delusion sent to your mind. You know, there's some people they will believe anything. They'll believe anything as long as it removes them. From anguish of mind or anguish of heart. They'll do anything, they'll accept any explanation If it brings comfort to them. You know what's going to happen for those who have heard the gospel? Thessalonians tells us, it lays it right out for us. Those who heard the truth. And did not receive the love of the truth, they will believe a lie. And the devil will be very glad to provide it to them. And the news media will pick right up on it. And it'll be blared out there. I don't know exactly what lie they're going to tell that you would believe, but whatever lie they'll tell, you'll believe it. And by the way, you say, well, the devil's not going to trick me. It's not the devil that sends a strong delusion Are you listening? It's not the devil that sends the strong delusion, it's God that will send the strong delusion to your heart. You say, why would he do that? Because you love not the truth. You have the opportunity. You turned it away. You send away your day of grace. Today is the day of salvation. Christ calls to one and all, to whosoever that are guilty of whatsoever come now Come now. Don't put it off. If I was lost in this place tonight, I wouldn't even wait for the invitation. God's dealing with your heart. Come now. Call upon the Lord. He said, Preacher, I don't know how to. Listen, just simply tell him that you believe that Christ is the Son of God, that he died on the cross for your sin, and that he rose again. Put your faith in And trust in what Jesus Christ has done. He will do the rest. Amen. He will do the rest. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Many years ago I was dealing with a lady in our church. She was a sweet lady, loved the Lord. She struggled with this thing of salvation. I'd talk with her and read the scripture to her and try to try to just give her God's word and try to assure her and she never just never seemed to be able to get it nailed down. One night I was talking with her, my wife was there, and her husband, we're talking there together, we're praying and reading. The Spirit of God said, go to Romans chapter 10, just start reading Romans 10. We're reading Romans 10, we get down to verse 13. She always had this struggle. How do I know if I had enough faith? How do I know? We got down to verse thirteen and we read that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, and the light turned down on my mind and my heart. The Holy Ghost said, Tell her if she had enough faith to call. If she had enough faith to call, she had enough faith to be saved. Listen, tonight all you gotta do is call. In your heart, call to the Lord. And he'll save you. Let's stand together, Heavenly Father. Lord, thank you for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.