Would you take your Bibles, please, and go to Acts chapter number two In the Word of God, Acts chapter number 2, and I'm going to join you there in just a moment, but I'd like to read Hebrews 10, 25. As we think about our theme for the year of three to thrive, I'll invite you to stand with me, please. I'm going to read Hebrews 10, 25 first, and then make my way to Acts 2. But please listen to this in Hebrews 10. 25, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is. But exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. In Acts chapter 2, verse 41, we read, Then they That gladly received his word were baptized. And the same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers. In Acts chapter number two, we have the church in her infancy, the church in her purity. And the church in the state, uh perhaps she's she's never been since, very unique church. But I believe there are three elements that we see in this New Testament church in Acts chapter 2 that are needed in every church in every age. And I want to preach on those three things. We've been talking about three to thrive. These are three things that every church needs if it's going to thrive. Pray with me if you would, please. Heavenly Father, we come in Jesus' name and thank you again for the privilege to open our Bibles and read them. Lord, I'm grateful that everything I just read is a hundred percent true. Because it's your word. And we bow before it and we pray for help to understand it. We ask that the Spirit of God would speak to us from it and that you would work on us by it. And Lord, I thank you that you have given us exceeding great and precious promises. That by these we might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. I praise you this morning, Father, for your faithfulness. And I pray now that you'll undertake. Hide me behind the cross. Help me to rightly lift up Jesus. And I pray, Lord, that you will help this church to be a church where these three things are very evident and abundant. And we'll thank you for what you do in our lives, our hearts. We need you, Lord. We're confessing it. Help the hearer and the preacher. And we'll bless you for it, for we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. The church, as we find it in Acts chapter number two Is unique in so many ways. We find her, like I said, in her infancy uh here she is and all of that uh pristine purity of being brand new. And the Lord's doing some things here, but Have you ever noticed that as the Lord does things, the pattern of the way in which the Lord does them, he continues to do them? In other words, he doesn't start one thing and then totally change it and go do another. Many of the things that we find in the book of Acts are transitional things. Things that do not happen outside of the book of Acts because they're not necessary outside of the book of Acts There are things that are applicable to that day, that time, those people, that instance, and then from then on uh they're put away. You find the apostles having the ability to heal the sick And yet you find the Apostle Paul leaving people at the end of his ministry in another place because they're sick. So obviously that passing of that gift had taken place, I believe, even at that point. And so many other portions of this, I don't want to belabor that, but I do want you to understand there are this is a book of transition But be it a book of transition, it still is a book of truth because it is the Bible. It's in the Word of God. And as a part of the Bible, we find things that God did then that He still desires to do now. And things that he was doing in that assembly that he wants to do in this assembly. There are three key elements that I see in this chapter. We're going to have to look at the whole chapter. And as we look at that chapter, I want you to notice three things. I'll give you the first one now. You see that they had the power of the Spirit. The power of the Spirit. Would you go back to the first and let me read a few verses here? Acts chapter number two Starting in verse number one, we read, and when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting. And there appeared unto them cloven tongues, like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them. Now please note verse 4. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost. All of them. Everybody was full. Not just the apostles were filled with the Holy Ghost, not just uh some of the other men who were assembled there, the Bible says there were a hundred and twenty that were assembled there, women among them, and and the scriptures make it clear, all, all, all were filled With the Holy Ghost. And began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. I'm going to stop reading there. I want you to think about the power of the Spirit of God that was upon that early church. You see, I want you to notice that they were seeking this fullness. They were seeking this fullness. In chapter number one, we read this. Go back over, Jesus said this to them. He said, wait, verse 4, Acts 1. 4, wait for the promise of the Father, which saith he, Ye have heard of me. For John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost, not many days hence And then down in verse 14 it says, these all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication with women and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren. What's going on in that upper room? What's happening in the heart of these people? They're praying and seeking the fullness of the Spirit of God. Now, I I understand we're living on this side of Pentecost. You say, what does that mean? That means that you and I don't have to sink the presence of the Spirit of God in our life, because the Bible teaches us that when we're saved, we have the Spirit of God. The moment you got saved, the Spirit of God came to live inside of you. And he says, if you have not the Spirit, you're none of His. If the Holy Spirit's not living in you, uh then you need to be born again. But when you get born again, the Spirit of God moves in, and you don't get him in piecemeal. He comes in whole. I'll tell you what we do need. We do need to be full of the Spirit of God. Now, if we would let our Bibles define our terminology, rather than our terminology define our Bibles, we would be in a much sounder place. You say, what do you mean? Here's what I mean. To be full literally means to be controlled. When you study through the book of Acts, these individuals came under the control or the influence the possession of the Spirit of God. Today that that term 's sort of frowned on, and maybe even in our good churches we often shy away from, but the reality is the scripture still commands us to be filled with the Spirit. To be filled with the Spirit is to be right thoroughly with God. To be filled with the Spirit is to have everything under His control. A surrendered vessel. I want you to see they were seeking that fullness. And I believe it's absolutely right. I don't seek the person, but I do seek his power. I have the person. What I need is his power. I have the Holy Ghost inside of me, but I need the help of the Lord. I need the power of God. And here is a church that's a model church because they had the power of God's Spirit on them. Oh, how we need God's power again. Church, if nothing else, may the message today stir our hearts to be hungry and thirsty for the real power of God once more. The power of God is not something you work up or it's not something that you promote. It's something you pray down. The power of God was very evident in this early church. You'll notice again that they were all filled. Can I ask you a question? What would it be like if we were all filled with the Holy Ghost this morning? Can I tell you a secret? Probably not a secret. But sometimes the preacher ain't full of the Holy Ghost. Sometimes the people aren't full of the Holy Ghost. Sometimes we're not under His control. I don't even have to have my glasses on, know that I'm getting some weird looks. But the reality is, is that my friend, listen, we The work of God requires the fullness of the Spirit of God. And we must be full. Must be full. Sometimes the choir is not full, the Holy Ghost. Sometimes our musicians, I'm not pointing an accusing finger, I'm just making a truthful statement that the reality is sometimes we're not all full. But here is an instance, and I don't know that there ever was another, but here is at least an instance where everybody was full of the Holy Ghost all at the same time. Can you imagine what kind of gathering that must have been? There wasn't a critical spirit among them, there wasn't a censurous spirit among them, there wasn't a cynical spirit among them, it was just simply they were all full of the Holy Ghost. No wonder God did such great things on that red letter day. Everybody was full of the Holy Ghost. Do you know there were no grudges in the upper room? There were no battles in the upper room about who's the greatest. That got killed when the Holy Ghost filled them. Remember before this now they were saying who you ask him who's greatest. You you you you find out who's gonna be right hand left hand man. They was they were always struggling for some kind of power position That's an evident sign that they're not full of the Holy Ghost. When you get full of the Holy Ghost, you don't care who's in charge so long as God is They were full of the Holy Ghost. All everybody everybody was filled with the Spirit And then I want you to notice that stirring that happened. I love this when you go on and read in down verse 11 of chapter 2. It says, we do hear them speak in our tongues the wonderful works of God. I think we put undue emphasis sometimes on the miracle here. The miracle is not that they spoke in other languages or heard the gospel in their language. The miracle is that all of these nations that were represented in that great multitude of people comprehended the message of the gospel and recognized it, later repented and were born again, it was a miracle that it got through to them and God was doing a work in their heart. God was stirring in that place. God was working among them. And may I remind you that the miracle today remains the same. It takes the Lord to work in a person's heart. A sinner remains dead till the Spirit of God does his work? Listen, there's no bringing yourself to life. A dead man don't give himself CPR or mouth to mouth. It takes another. And if you get born again, it takes another. The Spirit of God must do that work and make you live. But oh bless his name, he walks and looks and lingers and longs to make dead men live. Here he's working the power of the Spirit of God. All of these nations are named, the Parthians, the Medes, the Elamanites, the Mesopotamia, those from Judea, Cappadocia, Pontus, Asia, Ferguson, read on. All of those places and here are people with religions abundant, with influences that are various, and yet they hear the wonderful works of God and believe on the Lord Jesus and they get born again. That's the power of the Spirit. Church, God deliver us from salesmanship in our spirituality. God deliver us from high pressured and twisting arms sort of thing. If God the Holy Ghost don't convert them, they won't get converted. That's why we need the power of God This church had God's power on them. Oh, what a church it was. I don't know about you, but I want to be that kind of church. I want to be that kind of people. I want to be where the power of God is working. Oh, here we see an element that makes any church thrive. This church was not well educated by the standards of men. This church was not well endowed with finances. Most of them are poor. This church was not well situated as far as influence. They were not a known people, and the ones that were known were sort of scorned and looked down upon. They didn't have political influence But I'll tell you what they had, and what they had changed everything about them. They had the power of God. And when a person has the power of God upon their life, it makes all the difference. The deficiencies are made up by deity. God in his omnipotence and and his ability. And by the way, oh God get us back to this The New Testament church was never a church that showed off its ability. It always depended upon God. It was a church that had such power that came from above. And so we see that the power of God, the power of the Spirit, was an element that made this church thrive. And may I say to you the challenge to everybody who's saved here this morning. Is are you full of the Holy Ghost? Are you filled with the Spirit? Ephesians 5, you say, that don't apply to me. I'm on this side of Pentecost. Read Ephesians 5. Ephesians 5 says, be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. It is not a suggestion, it's a command of the Lord. It's a command of God that every one of us, preacher, people, no matter who or what we are, man, woman, boy, girl, everyone's to be, if you're saved by the grace of God, everyone's to be filled with the Holy Spirit. And the control of the Spirit of God is something that is the privilege of all who are born again. You say, preacher, I just can't tame some. Well, God can. God can We ought to stop apologizing for what God wants to annihilate. Had somebody say to me one time, you just have to forgive me, preacher. I'm plain spoken. And you know what that they they said? I got to know them. They weren't plain spoken. They were just rude and mean and full of the flesh and not full of the Holy Ghost. They hadn't surrendered their tongue to God. They had not. It was controlled by their flesh. It wasn't con the spirit listen, the spirit of God's not going to make your words sharp. He'll make them sweet. And if they are sharp, they'll be sharp like the scriptures, which both cut and heal all at the same time. And so we see here they were full. They were full. Everybody was full. Are you filled with the Spirit of God? Can you imagine? Just think a moment. What if we went to church, one service, and everybody was filled with Spirit? I can't tell you what had happened because I don't know. But I do know this, God would be pleased. And there would be power. God's power. Do you notice how we read on a little bit, and boy, it seemed like this church was astir. Every assembly, every gathering. Every time they were were meeting, God was doing something. There were things accomplished and and and they were opposed for sure. The enemy was riled up. And even at once, in one occasion, no man would even join them because they were fearful of what was going on there. Something supernatural was about that people. By the way, the church is supposed to be a supernatural organism, not just a dead organization. The thing that differentiates this gathering from any other today is the power of God's Spirit. If we don't have the God's uh if we don't have God's Spirit, we're no different than the Moose Club or the Lions Club or the Turkey's Club or whatever club you want to be a part of. We're no different than any other gathering if we do not have God's power on us. The power of God is. Are you full of the Spirit? I was a little boy I used to hear people that were very vocal about this sort of thing, but sometimes they were right critical. They would say things like, I don't believe the preacher was full of the Spirit this morning. And I often thought as a little boy, not knowing theology nor my Bible, I often thought, I wonder how full they are. I mean they're quick to see he's not, but are they? Are they full? See, I can't get full of the Holy Ghost for you. That's your responsibility. You have to be filled. Individually. I I can't be filled with the spirit for my wife and My wife can't be filled with the Spirit from me. I've got to be full of the Spirit of God. And you know what that requires of me? Just in a word, surrender. A surrender. We sing it, but do we do it? I surrender all. All to Jesus, I surrender. Are you full of the Holy Ghost? All of them. All the church. Hundred and twenty. Listen, I don't have the vocabulary to tell you what a gathering that must have been. The Spirit of God was not grieved by one soul. See, sometimes we gather together. It just takes one to grieve the Holy Ghost. And it might be an old unforgiving spirit. It might be a critical thing. See, we boy, we fundamental folk gotta be careful. Sometimes we get right FBI like about everything. And we come to church to find the wrong. And we sit on the pews and say, boy, uh uh, she she missed a note playing that too. I believe that grieves the Holy Ghost. I believe it grieves the Holy Ghost when we we hear that choir say, Well wh why then why they why are they so happy up there? Why don't they just settle down? I believe that grieves the Holy Ghost. I believe when we blow up and stub up and say, Who's he to talk to me like that? And get mad at the preacher because he's trying to tell us the truth. I believe that grieves the Holy Ghost. It grieves him When we speak, the Bible tells us in Ephesians 4. 32 at the conclusion of that great chapter on the Holy Spirit and how to deal with Him and He with you. He says, be kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. I believe when we're not right with each other, we've grieved the Holy Ghost. We've grieved him. Friend, can I say to you that we can't afford to have the Spirit of God grieved? Ah, how we all need to be full. How we need to take gathering together very seriously. When we come in this place, we ought to be right with God in each other and be full of the Holy Spirit. They were all filled with the power of the Spirit. Let me quickly give you another element to this church. There was the preaching of Scriptures. Look with me down in verse number fourteen. The Bible says Peter standing up with the eleven Lifted up his voice and said unto them, Ye men of Judea and all ye that dwelt at Jerusalem, be this known unto you, and hearken to my words. And he begins preaching a message that goes all the way to verse number 40. Now, I I started to say it's not a long message, but here's Here's the out on that. It says in verse 40, and with many other words did he testify and exhort. So the message was longer than what's recorded. At least that's what I'm going to go on record as saying. Okay? But he's preaching the scriptures. Do you realize what he does? Would you look at it starting in verse number 11? He quotes scripture. He takes the word of God and he begins to quote the scriptures. He tells them there in verse number sixteen. uh that this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel and he goes on and he and he preaches. He preaches from the prophet Joel He actually takes his text from Joel 2, verse 28 to 32. And let me say this, the chapter and verse divisions are not inspired. But they sure are helpful. Do you know how long it'd be to find Joel chapter two if you didn't have a chapter verse and all that to be able to look up? But what he did is he he quoted that, and then he would take Psalm 16, he would take Psalm 110, and I believe there's references to Numbers 11, there's a reference to Deuteronomy. And if you'll look at it, eleven verses of the message are all out of the Bible. They're just straight scripture. He's preaching the word. And by the way, can I say today that's where the power is? Hebrews 4:12 says that the word of God is quick and what? Powerful. There's the power. The power is in the word. Listen, the the power uh is not in volume It's not volume. I don't know if any of you remember that old Southern Baptist preacher, E. J. Daniels. He was on t on TV for a while and and uh he was a good preacher of the gospel, he was a good man of God. I knew him in his later years. And brother, brother Daniels was a wild man preacher. He knew one gear high. And he preached, he he his face turned blood red 30 seconds after he started and stayed that way. uh for forty-five minutes and then it deflated when he stopped. I mean he was just he was a fireball. In his early fifties he started having trouble with his voice. He had a Christian doctor and the doctor examined him and said, DJ, there's nothing wrong with your voice but abuse. He said, can I remind you something, preacher? The power of your preaching is not in the volume of your voice, but in the scriptures that you use. He said, that's the first time I ever had to repent in the doctor's office. He said, I said, Lord help me. Because church d we know that, don't we? The power is in the word. He took the word of God, he took the book of Joel, he took numbers, he took Psalm, and he used them and he preached the Word. I remind you that the preaching of the scriptures is a needed element in our day Not the philosophy of men, not the ideas or the opinions of others, but the precious pure word of God. And then he went on and he did just exactly what they've been doing from the beginning. He gave the sense. I like what he said here. This is that. So he said, now this is that. What you're seeing is what God said. And he gave the sense. Nehemiah says that they read in the book of the law of God distinctly. And then gave the sense thereof. That was Old Testament preaching. And by the way, Old Testament preaching and New Testament preaching are no different at all. There needs to be the reading of the Word of God distinctly and the giving of the sense, the application, the interpretation, the explanation, saying, this is that, this is that. This is that. That's what he was doing. This is that, and this is that, and this is that. He was taking the word of God and putting it to use. People say things like this and it tells me they've never read the Bible. They say the Bible's irrelevant. Now I'm I try to be nicer than this. Start to say I am nicer, but not always. But I try to be nicer than this. I feel like saying you're ignorant Because you don't know the Bible. The Bible is a relevant book. Look, when you open this Bible and start reading it, it's amazing how up to date it really is. And you read it and you realize, my goodness, although it may be multiple thousands of years old, the truth that's in this book is ageless. There's no expiry date on the Word of God. And it's as good right now as it was when it was given through those holy men of God who spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. What a Bible, what a scriptures, what word we have from God. They gave the sense. And by the way, that's what preaching is. It's saying this is that. This is that. This is that. I don't know what the Lord has in store for you, but if God ever calls you, your job is not just to tell cute stories and entertain folks. Preaching's not about entertainment. Preaching's not about getting the emotions going. I was thinking of Dr. Whited, he's in heaven. He was the teacher or president actually of our college. And uh he was missionary to Edinburgh, Scotland, and he said the Scottish people the most stoic men and pe women he had ever met. He said they don't give holy grunts even in church. And Brother Witted was a bit of an emotional, excite, excited individual. But he said it always amazed him that that somebody could tell a we he called a wee story about the sun or the moon shining over little Willie's grave, and he said the most hard Scotsman would sit there and weep in tears. He said what he said, but but you could preach the word of God and it not move them I'm just saying that all the emotion in the world can never take the place of the Word of God. Because it is the word that feeds your soul. It is the word that convicts your heart. It is the word that makes you more like Jesus. It's the word that makes us what we ought to be. Friend, I need the word of God. Paul said, Timothy, go preach the word. Preach the word. Don't preach around it. Don't preach about it. Just preach the word. Be instant in season and out of season and reprove and rebuke and exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. Why? Because we need the word. He said, beware, the last days they will not want the word. They'll heap to themselves teachers Notice the absence of preachers there. They'll heat to themselves teachers, not diminishing the ministry of teaching, but understanding this, that there is a difference and a distinction in the Bible between teaching and preaching. Preaching is the authoritative declaration of truth. Teaching brings with it the element of instruction and gentle nursing and and admonition and bringing along. And yet he said they'll heat to themselves. They'll pull together these teachers having itching ears. And what will they want? They want fables. That's stories They'll want fables instead of truth, fables instead of doctrine. You listen to preaching, and I try to listen to all sorts of it And the mo and you know what most of it is? It's it's humanist philosophy. Couched in Christian terms. Telling us we're you pretty good fella, and Jesus wants to make you a little better. That's not what my Bible says. My Bible says I'm lost and damned and without God and hope, and I need to repent and be born again. If not, I'll I'll perish forever. The Bible doesn't coddle me in comfort. It convicts me and sometimes does so in in a way of calamity. The word of God comes and cuts like a knife. I'm just saying that the Word of God must be preached, and the preaching of the Word of God was an element in this church. Peter, did you read the sermon? Read it sometime. He said, you have taken him with wicked hands, slew. It don't sound like he's trying to win friends and influence people. He had never read the book. But he had he knew the book, amen. And he said, fellas, look, you're guilty, and you need to get forgiveness. You crucified him, but it was in the determinate counsel knowledge of God. It's part of the it was the plan of God and the will of God. And and though you crucified him, God rose raised him again. He preached, he preached the scriptures, he gave the sense, and then as I've already alluded to, he got quickly to the Savior. Because look in verse twenty-one, it shall come to pass that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Ye men of Israel, hear these words, Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs. which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know. Him being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain, whom God hath raised up. Having loosed the pains of death because it was not possible that he should be holding of it. What's he preaching? He's preaching Jesus, the death, burial, resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. For years ago, I'm thankful for this. It embarrassed me to death, but I needed it and I praise God for it forever. But an old brethren preacher came to hear me preach, which was unusual because they don't fraternize anybody. And I I learned later he's after me. You know, they're always somebody wanting you to join their club. And uh, you know, he s he said you'd make a good brethren if you'd leave the Baptist alone. But anyway , he sat in the gospel service and I preached the word. I thought I preached the word and I got through. And he came up, and I believe he said it in a good spirit. He was an Irishman, Northern Ireland, Albert Hull. I believe he's in heaven now. But Albert Hull said to me, he said, preacher, there's no preaching of the gospel without preaching the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. He said, lean hard on the gospel. He turned and walked away. I examined every message I'd ever preached in light of what he said. And I determined from that day to this, and I know I've miserably failed, but it's been my heart every time I stand to at least preach to some degree the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. To make it known that Christ died for sin, that he was buried, that he rose again the third day, that he'll save sinners. And beloved, that's exactly what the Lord does. That's what Peter did on the day of Pentecost. He preached the Savior, he preached Christ. Spurgeon said, take your text where you will, but make your way to Jesus. Oh, he's the answer, is he not? And listen, the church must preach Christ. We must preach, must preach the Lord Jesus who died for our sin, was buried, and rose again. He is what men need. He is the one they preached on Pentecost, and He is the one in whom they believed. The preaching of the scriptures. Let me give you the third one and I'm through. Their persistent steadfastness. I believe these are three ingredients every church must have. Oh, they had the power of the Spirit. Are you full? They had the preaching of the Scriptures. You say, Preacher, that don't have nothing to do with me. That has everything to do with you. Let me say it has something to do for all of us. Do we have a heart for the Word of God? Is it is it the Word of God we desire? Brother Olford, Steve Stephen Olford. I met this brother and he he was he's an Englishman And uh he talked about when he would preach in different parts of uh of the world and and how people would respond. He said his favorite place to preach was in Northern Ireland. He said those old men would smack you on the back and say, preach the word, brother. Preach the word. We don't want to hear anything but the word. I was a boy, I remember the exhorters. We had an office called Exhorter. And those men would sit about where Brother Dickerson is here and feel that front section. And you know what their job was? Their job was to pray and ag the preacher on. They prayed for him while he was preaching. And they amanned him while he was preaching. But they also corrected him if he got away from the word. I can still see one old man stand up and he'd say, Get back in the book, preacher, get back in the book. And sometimes they'd join in together, and several of them would join in. And they would say, Get back in the Word, preach the Word, preach the Word. He might be trying to tell a story on a rabbit trail, and they'd drown him down, saying, Preach the word, preach the word, preach the word. And when he got back to the Bible, then they'd hush and they'd ag him on again. You say, oh, how unruly. I say how necessary. Be good they had some men in our churches again that had a backbone said, preacher, preach the word. We don't need your opinion. We're not interested in that. It's not going to help me. I don't want to hear your political affiliation. I want to hear Jesus preach the word. Preach the word. Preach the word. Be instant in season out of season. What does that mean? That means preach when they like it and preach when they don't like it. Reprove and rebuke and exhort with all long-suffering doctrine. Just preach the word. Oh friend, listen, that's a key element. No church can be the church of the living God if it don't have the power of the Spirit and the preaching of the Word. Then finally, we see their persistent steadfastness. I like these two verses, verse number 42 and 46. It says, They continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship. And in breaking of bread and in prayers. Verse 46, and they continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart. Do you notice there with me their steadfastness? That means they adhered to something from which they did not waver. This wasn't the religion of the month club. They steadfastly continued with the apostles' doctrine. Fellowship, breaking bread and prayers. They they adhered to these truths and said, We shall not, we shall not, we shall not be moved. They were steadfast. The key, the simplicity of Christianity was that which they clung to with tenacity and said, we will not be moved from it. We 'll not be intimidated by the intelligent Greeks. And we will not be intimidated by the ignorant heathen. We will not be intimidated by the influences of Rome or other places. We stay true and loyal to Jesus Christ, come what may. They continue steadfastly. Church, oh how we need a generation of people that are so committed to the cross of the Lord Jesus. and the Lord Jesus himself, that they say I'll be steadfast and unmovable and always abounding in the work of the Lord. You know why Christianity is dying in America? Because Christians are uncommitted. They're not steadfast about anything. They're not sold out to. That adherence, that that commitment, that dedication That saying, Lord, here am I. I'm committing myself. I'm following this way. You know, they weren't called Christians for quite some time. They were called the way. These people that follow this way, Paul was one of those that followed the way. What way was it? It was the Jesus way They were in his way. They were following his way. And it marked them. And they were committed to that way. And there was nothing that could move them from it. I'm told, I don't know how true it is, but I'm told there was a group of soldiers that were converted And the man over them, the one in charge of that particular group of men, was not a believer, and he found out every one of them were Christians. And he ordered them to strip and march out into these cold waters and stand. And they were a band of men who were committed to the Lord Jesus Christ. Somewhere in the wee hours of the morning, with the bright fire burning on the on the shore, they were invited and encouraged to come and warm just to deny Christ in doing so. And one men broke one man broke and made his way out. I forget the number of the men that were there, but they were chanting 40 men we'll say for Christ. And when the one broke rank and walked away, they didn't hesitate or waver. They said 39 men. Committed to Christ. And hearing that indictment on that man's heart, he never made it to the fire. He turned back and marched in and started saying with a loud voice, 40 committed to Christ. I'm saying there needs to be a steadfast adherence. Men and women who say the Lord Jesus is the way I'm not ashamed of the way. I'm not embarrassed of the way. I'm not confused about the way. I'm not looking for the way. We know He is the way. And I'm following the way and I'm steadfast in the way. God give us some people like that. Spineless Christianity is a shame to the Savior. Notice something else, they had singleness of heart. See it verse 46. That means they were simply devoted. The word's odd. I'm trying to wrap my head around just exactly what it means. But it's a smooth stone. It was a common term that was used for a stone that had all the rough edges knocked off of it. Singleness of heart But be that as it may, I believe what's being said here is that there were no divided allegiances here. They were not trying to go three ways, they were following Jesus Christ. There were no divided hearts. They weren't living one way on Sunday and another way on Monday. They were committed to the Lord Jesus. They were in singleness. You see that in that singleness of heart. And we see their persistent steadfastness. They were steadfast in their adherence. They were devoted to the Lord Jesus in their loyalty. They were committed to Him. How quickly today Jesus gets sold out in the marketplace of the world. To fit in, sadly many use the language that fits in To get along, they do the things that gets them along. Whether it's crooked or wrong or violates God and their conscience, they do it anyhow because they just got to fit in. And you know what we do when we do that? We sell out the Lord Jesus. Here are people devoted to the Lord. Here are people that were single-hearted. They were committed and loyal to Jesus. Jesus was everything to them. And then I want you to notice something else. Talking about their persistent steadfastness. It says the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. Not the apostles, not those new converts, but the Lord. The Lord was saving people. Because these people were serious and wouldn't quit. I don't know that I've ever seen it quite like this, but I was walking the other night and I was thinking on this verse and saying it over and over in my head, and I thought, I'm here today because they didn't quit. Yeah. What if they what if they'd quit? What if they had said Man, it's too hard around here. And by the way, it got hard. It got so bad they all had to leave except the apostles. Everybody had to leave town. Because that wreak havoc. There's havoc being wreaked on the church. And but aren't you glad that when they left when they left Jerusalem they didn't leave Jesus? Because when they set up shop in another place, they started preaching him there. And then when they got chased out of there, they went and preached him there. And when they got chased out of that place, they went and preached him there. And here we are some two thousand years removed, guess what? We're still preaching that same thing, because that crowd back yonder didn't quit. All we've got to do is look behind us and realize we're here today because somebody was steadfast in their persistence and said, I will not quit. Maranatha Baptist Church j just didn't blossom out of the ground. It didn't just fall down from heaven and appear There was some people committed, steadfast, persistent. Said good or bad, up or down, win or lose. We're going to stay true to God. And I'm telling you, there's some people coming behind you that need you to have that same kind of steadfastness because there won't be a church if there's not some people today with the persistence of those of yesteryear. Somebody's got to say, I'm not going to quit. It's not going to be easy, it's not going to be pleasant. Sometimes you're going to have to just uh sort of do like an old eagle does, bow your head and take the storm and wait for it to stop. But say I'm going through. I'm going through. Too many times we turn tail and run and we weaken what God's wanting to do. Persistent steadfastness. Do you realize that there's souls hanging in the balance? Literally, souls hanging in the balance. Well, I'll tell you, I was thinking of this. Joe, you remember getting lost in the woods? You and I. It's your fault. But we got lost. It was your fault. You know it was. You ask him why. But anyway , we're we're we're wandering around, it's getting cold. And there was snow probably what ankle well above our ankles. It was fairly It was a significant snow and it was getting colder and colder and colder. And I foolishly did I didn't have anything to light a fire with. It was one of the most ignorant things I'd ever done hunting. And he's just young. And uh we don't have anything to light a fire with, we don't have anything to eat, didn't bring any, you know, protein bars or anything like that. And it's starting to get dark And I'll tell you, there's something about when you start getting hypothermic and cold, you just it's weird. You want to lay down and go to sleep. Your body starts to feel warm. And I remember a couple of times walking along thinking, you know, if I was by myself, this would be simple. I just lay down, because we can't, we're not getting out of here. That's the way I was starting to feel. We're not getting out of here. And and I thought, man, if I was just by myself, I'd lay down, I'd get warm, I'd go to sleep. That'd be then. But then I turn around. And here's a little red-headed knothead behind me. And he he don't know the danger that we're in. This is just the adventure with dad. And every once in a while I turned around, I'd see him, and I'd say, keep walking. We're going to find something, somewhere, somebody. I can't stop. I don't care what happens to me, but that boy needs a chance. You know what I'm trying to say? Look around you. It's some people who need a chance. And if you quit on God and this local church shuts down, and there's no light in this community. What's gonna happen? Oh, it's not gonna be easy. Man, you're gonna have to push through a lot of stuff, but I'll tell you what it's worth pushing through because on the other end. The Lord's added to the church daily, such as should be saved. That church began to migrate westward, westward, westward. God began to shed the light further and further and further. And here we sit today saved by the grace of God, washed in the blood of Jesus. On our way to glory. Why? Because somebody back yonder didn't quit. They continued. They continued. God help us to get that in our spirit. Say, help me to continue. I'll tell you what, if this church, if we get a hold of this, the power of the Spirit, the preaching of the scriptures, and this persistent steadfastness, we'll thrive. We'll thrive. Here's three that'll help us to thrive in these last days. Now, friend, if you're sitting here listening to the broadcast and you're not saved, No amount of determination, dedication, or service to a local church will save your soul. You need to be born again individually. You need to see you're lost and that Jesus saves and to cry out to him for mercy and let him birth you into the family like only he can do. But he'll do that for he loves to save sinners. He delights to save sinners. It's the joy of his heart to forgive those that cry out for forgiveness. Whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. That can be you today. Dear brother or sister, are you full of the Holy Ghost? Are we filled with His Spirit? Are we under His control? Is there some untamed part that needs the conquering hand of the Lord? Bow to his will, bow to him, bow to his word, bow to his working. And maybe you're weary. And wondering, is it worth it? Rewind in your mind some two thousand years and thank God that they in Jerusalem didn't feel that way. And they just said steadfast Single-hearted. Stay the course. And may God help us to do the same. Let's stand together, please.