I want you to take your Bibles, please, and go with me to the book of Hebrews. Hebrews chapter number 10 And when you find your place, we're going to begin reading in verse number 19 down to verse number 25. Hebrews chapter 10, verses 19 to 25. I'm going to invite you to stand, please, and we'll honor the reading of God's Word. Notice what the Bible says Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus. By a new and living way, which He hath consecrated for us, through the veil, that is to say, His flesh. And having an high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith. Having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is But exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. I want you to look this morning at some very important truths that are found in these verses. Verses 19 to 25 of Hebrews 10 is a conclusion of what's been taught in the whole book of Hebrews up to this point. It's a practical application of all the truth Now, I want to say this. I'm grateful that doctrine has a practical element in our daily lives. The Bible doctrines that we learn are not meant to swell our heads. They're meant to change our lives and to alter our steps. And so may the Lord help us this morning. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak. Father, we Bow our heads and come in Jesus' name. And we have to acknowledge that we're not here today simply by our wit or our skill or our ability. Lord, you have brought us safe thus far. Through every storm and through every trial, I'm sure there's some sitting here that thought there was something in their life that would surely be the end of them But yet you brought them safe thus far. And I'm glad, Lord, that you are the God who does not fail. And Lord, that you will continue to be faithful. Lord, would you open our hearts this morning? May the Word of God just do a mighty work. And Father, for what you accomplish, we'll be careful to give you the glory. Lord, our eyes are upon you. We sure need you. For these few minutes, Lord, hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus, who truly is alone, altogether lovely. I pray, Father, that you'll save the lost, reclaim the backslider, strengthen the believer, and above all, have your way. And we ask these things in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. I want to begin this morning uh preaching from the text that's been on my heart for the theme of our new year. I first heard this statement made by Dr. Lee Roberts many years ago when he came to preach at our church. And I don't know that the man ever preached anywhere that he didn't at least make this statement once. He would say that every Christian needs three to thrive. And then he would go on to say that a Christian needs a Sunday morning, a Sunday evening, and a Wednesday night meeting with the Lord and his people. And he said, if you want to thrive as a Christian, you need those three to thrive. Now, our theme for the new year is that very statement, three to thrive, and I'm t I'm going to be talking much more about uh that statement and about that thought of the three to thrive. But I'm interested in the three let us That are found in my text because they they give me the reason I ought to be faithful to assemble with God's people I'm thankful that my Bible not only tells me what, my Bible also tells me why. And this is the why behind the what. Look with me, if you will, at these three let uses. They're found in verse 22. Mark it, please. Let us draw near. Let us draw near. Verse number 23 has the second one. Let us hold fast. Do you see that? Let us hold fast. And verse 24 has the third, and it is, and let us consider one another. And let us consider one another. Each of these are an invitation to do something that pleases the Lord. It's an invitation not only personally, but it's an invitation collectively that we do something or we follow him in some way that is pleasing. And by the way, how many of you have learned that what's pleasing to the Lord is profitable to you? The Lord's instructions are always for our benefit. They bring glory to his name, but they also are for our good. So let's look at these this morning. Let's look at the first let us where he says, Let us draw near. Now three verses here, verse 19 and 20 21 and even down to verse 22. Look at it again, please. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus By a new and living way, which He hath consecrated for us through the veil, that is to say, His flesh. Would you mark these two verses as the foundation of our drawing near? They're the grounds by which you get close. Dear friend, know this: that our God is a holy God. And he cannot look upon sin, he cannot tolerate sin. And there's only way that a sinner who's stained and marked with sin can get near to the Lord, and it is through the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. He says, draw near, look, by the blood. We have boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood. Now these are Hebrew Christians he's writing to. They're well familiar with the Old Testament way. And in the Old Testament, the high priest dare not go to the holy place without the blood. And if he did, he would be struck dead immediately. That blood was the answer for his sin and the answer for the sin of the people. And so as he approached the holy place, as he approached where God dwelt, he would approach him with blood. And then it says there's a new and living way. We're not looking to an Old Testament sacrifice or going back to some Old Testament custom. There has been a new and living way opened. It was demonstrated on Calvary when the veil of the temple was rent from top to bottom. And he says there's a veil been rent, and that veil is the flesh of the Lord Jesus. Let me just say this. When Jesus shed his blood and gave his life on Calvary, He made a way for every dirty sinner to be made clean and to come to God through him. You dare not and I dare not approach him in any other way. There's no other way you can come, you say, but I'll come on my religion. Your religion stinks in the nostrils of God. I come in my righteousness. Your righteousness is as filthy rags in the eyes of a holy God I come upon my my merit or my goodness, and may I say to you, there's none good, no not one. The only thing you can come on, and the only one you can come through, is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the way, he is the truth, he is the life. And he says, let us draw near. How? Through the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. I've all I've said this, I believe it true deep in my heart that the the cross, uh the ground around Calvary is very level. Self-righteousness creates superiority thinking in uninformed saints. But thinking that I'm I'm more holy because of what I do. Or I'm more uh I have more access to God because of who I am. Can I say to you that we all gotta come the same way? We all have to come in the same fashion. The foundation or the grounds of our approaching God has to be the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we all must come through him. There's no other way to come. I can't come on my standard. My standard can never reach the height of God's righteousness. God 's righteousness, my friend, is imputed to all who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. And then I can come. I can come on those grounds. I can come to the Lord. It's very important that we see the foundation, the blood, the body, the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. But then not only do I see a foundation, but I see a friend. And look what it says, verse 21, and having an high priest over the house of God. You see, these people were well skilled in understanding that the high priest represented them to God. That in a sense, when he went, they went. When he approached God, they approached God. When he was accepted, they were accepted. Their spiritual favor would rise and fall upon the well-being of the high priest in his ministry. And so that high priest said he's saying now, let us draw near, let us come close. We've got a high priest, and he's not just any old high priest. If I understand my Bible correctly, the high priest in the Old Testament was more or less an unaccessible man by the common. He was not someone that you could just readily, easily approach. He had to keep himself undefiled. He had to be in proper place and position to approach the Lord. But I'll remind you of another high priest, and my Bible tells me this high priest is touched with the feelings of our infirmities, because he was in all points tempted, like as we are, yet without sin. He was the God who became man, and he was the one who, though he was man, yet still was God, he's the high priest that represents me. He's my friend in the glory world. And he says, draw near. You've got the grounds of the body and the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now you've got a friend, a high priest. And he tells me here again, he says, and having an high priest over the house of God Here is a high priest that lived as you've lived, who suffered and bled and died and walked the earth, and my friendless and he's not an uh inaccessible high priest, he's someone you can approach. Hebrews 4 says, Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. How can we come? We come through our high priest. That great high priest. And listen, as we consider this friend, understand very clearly here that we're talking about drawing near to God. We're talking about getting close to the Lord. How do we get close to the Lord? We get close to the Lord on the grounds of the sacrifice of Christ, on the work of Christ, and the friendship that we can have with the Lord Jesus, who is our great high priest. He's the one that represents us and goes out before the Father on our behalf. But then look at this in verse 22. Let us draw near. With a true heart. That means one that's not hypocritical, not one that's playing games or pretending, a true heart. And here's what I want you to see: in full assurance of faith. Having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. The full assurance He's saying, Don't come to me with a doubtful mind. Don't come, don't don't draw near to me thinking that that you'll be uh not accepted. Listen, uh the I love the old song that says there's not a friend like the lowly Jesus. No not one, no not one. And it goes on to ask the question, will he not receive us? Will he not take us in? Will he not accept us? Listen, there's not a sinner that he turns away There's not a sinner that he turns away. He makes it very clear here in the precious Word of God that, listen, we can draw near and we can come with a full assurance of faith. Confidence in what? Confidence in myself? Oh, absolutely not. Confidence in my religion? Oh no. confidence in my righteousness? No, no, no. Confidence in my friend and confidence in the foundation. I can draw near to God because I have confidence in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now you may struggle to pray because you feel the awful wickedness of your heart. But know this, if you're in Christ, you're not praying on the grounds of what you feel. You're praying on the grounds of who Jesus is. We draw near through the Lord Jesus Christ. He says, let us draw near. Friend, we've got to get close to the Lord. And can I just say this in context? He's talking about these saints assembling. And as I get close to God, do you know what happens in my heart? I want to get close to God's people. I want to be around God's people. I want to be in God's house. I want to assemble with the saints. Have you ever noticed when you're not right with God, the first people you don't want to be with are other Christians? When your heart's not right with the Lord? I'm going to tell you something, this new brand of Christianity that's critical of everything they've ever been taught is not of God, and it proves the reality that those hearts aren't right with the Lord. If all you can do is criticize and find fault and vilify everything and every one, my friend, you need to get your heart right with the Lord. Read Galatians five. Doc did this morning in Sunday school. Fruit of the Spirit. It's not criticism. The fruit of the Spirit is love and joy and peace. Longsuffering, meekness, gentleness. That's that outward fruit. Long-suffering, gentleness, meekness. Those are the that that that's the working of God's Spirit in a man's heart. And what I'm saying is is that when I when I'm drawing near to God, it will draw me near to God's people and it will draw me near to God's house. A dear friend of mine got saved, and when he got saved, he got saved, I believe it was four weeks before Christmas. And the church was having a special service on Christmas. And uh he he went when he got saved, the preacher came to visit and talked to him when he got saved. He said, now I'll be there Christmas. I'll be there for that special service. But he said after a few days he started thinking, I don't want to wait that long. But I guess I can't go because I told the preacher I wouldn't come until Christmas. So another week passed and he ended up calling. He said, Pastor, I know I told you that I would come on Christmas, but can I come before? He said, most definitely. He said, I really don't know what it is, but other than I just want to be there. Now that was raw New Testament Christianity. He just wanted to be there because the God of heaven who saved him put that desire in his heart. He wanted to be with the people of God. Let us draw near. Listen, as I draw near to the Lord, I want to draw near to the Lord's people, and I want to draw near to the Lord's house He's saying, draw near, let us draw near, let us come. And notice, this was not a singular coming to nearness. This was a collective coming. Let us, let us draw near. You can do a lot of things by yourself. But you can't be a good Christian alone. You can do a lot of things on your own. But you cannot be a Christian who's growing in grace and knowledge of the Lord Jesus on your own. God doesn't have any Lone Rangers. But may I remind you Lone Ranger had Tonto. He wasn't on his own. And nor can you and I be on our own. Let us draw near. Look at the next one. Verse 23. Let us hold fast. The profession of our faith without wavering. For he is faithful that promised. What does it mean to hold fast? It means to be firm. Unmovable, steadfast, settled, rooted, grounded, hold fast It's to be established. And let me show you something real quick. Would you go over to Ephesians chapter number four? Ephesians chapter number four. And just for sake of time, let me just read uh well, let me start in verse 13 And look what verse 13 says, till we all come in the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, under the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Look at verse 14, that we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine. By the slight of men and the cunning craftiness whereby they lie in wait to deceive, but speaking the truth in love may grow up into him in all things, which is the head even cross. You see that? He's teaching us here that we need to stand fast and not be like children who are blown about, who are tossed to and fro. Brother Todd Bell visited us one time and we were sledding off our back porch. We had about, I guess we had about a 12-foot snowpack and So my back porch was quite high and we could just step off the back porch onto the snow. And we just used that as a launching pad. And Todd's little girl, his his uh youngest, um Elizabeth wanted to go down on the sled and so she went down through there and she was just flying, went out across the marsh, and she got out in that open area where the wind was really blowing. And every time that little thing would stand up, the wind would blow her down. And she would get she would try to get up, get on her feet, and she'd fly the wind would blow her down. And then in a panic, I mean the little girl was just screaming at the top of her lungs, somebody come get me. And Brother Bell had to go down through there. He jumped on the other sled and went down to where she was and got a hold of her. And I noticed when he stood up the wind didn't blow him over. Because he had some substance to him. Folks, the Bible is saying I need to stand fast. I need to have some substance about me so that when the devil's wind blows, it don't blow me away. And I'm gonna tell you something, the devil's not only blowing a wind, he's blowing tornadoes. I mean there's tornadoes that seem to just pop up uh on the scene left, right, and center. We've got all sorts of mediums through which these false prophets can communicate. And they do so so frequently and so uh so enticingly. And you know what they're doing? They're blowing the little children all away. Because we're not standing fast. By the way, Ephesians 4 is in context of the body, in context of the local church. the the the body. And I listen, uh can I just say this? I hear people say, well, preacher, we are the church. And I, yeah, that that's true. But listen, I know and you know that this brick and mortar is not the church This it in the b this building is not church. Maranatha Baptist Church could assemble out yonder under a pine tree and still be Maranatha Baptist Church. We don't have to be at this locale. But we but we do have to assemble. We do have to come together. It's the gathering of God's people. And listen, it where is the truth spoken in love? Where Is is the standing fast encouraged? Where is the growth enhanced? It's enhanced in that body that assembles and ministers one to another. Not only did he say stand fast, but look what he said, hold fast the profession of our faith. And again, may I say the profession is only as good as our possession. A profession is no substitute for a possession. But our profession of our faith, what's our faith? Our faith is in the Lord Jesus. And as we make that confession or profession, we're acknowledging that we're putting our trust in the Lord. Can I say that we cannot follow the Lord piecemeal? I mean, we say by trusting him to save me, but there are some things he said that I just don't agree with. Well then, it's not Jesus that has the problem, it's you that has the problem. Because he is the Lord. And he said, Hold fast. Look, let us hold fast that profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. Someone said this is the bedrock of our soul. Now, can I ask you a question? Where does this faith get strengthened? Where does this faith get encouraged? Listen, I've worked jobs and worked out in the world a good part of my life, and I don't I have never been encouraged out in the world. Not to believe God. Brother Hitchens talked about his testimony. What did he get when he went to work? He got blasted. He got blasted. Like many of you get blasted Like like you get blasted. You're not going to turn on your television and get encouragement. You're not going to read the news and find out what's going on in the world. and get encouragement. Where does my faith, is there a place in the world that God has ordained for faith to be strengthened and nurtured? And encouraged and and fertilized and watered so that it'll grow. Yes, there is. It's called the house of God It's the gathering of God's people to exhort and edify and encourage and instruct one another. It's the place where God's people assemble together. David got a little disoriented. He said, I was envious at the wicked. I got to looking at these evil men around me and I started getting jealous. I said, they don't have the trouble I have. They don't deal with the things I deal with. I mean, look at them, they're living good. And he got to the point, he said, I've washed my hands in vain. He was saying, all I've done to try to live right is just not worth a thing. And then he you get down there, I believe it's I believe it's around verse 17 in Psalm 73, he said, until I went into the sanctuary. He said, Then I understood therein. Now, David didn't have a New Testament church. I know that. David didn't have a pastor, he didn't have a preacher in that sense, but he did have a mode or a method of worship that God had ordained. He had a place that was set aside to be the place where he was reminded of God and his goodness. He had a worship that he was to attend that would exalt the Lord Jesus. And exalt the God of heaven and the coming Lord Jesus and turn his eyes on things eternal. And in a very real sense, you and I have the same thing in our local church. We have a place where we can assemble and be instructed from the Word of God. We have a place where we can be, our mind and our heart can be turned on things eternal. We can gather and hear the old hymns. I don't know about you, but those hymns meant a lot to me this morning. Those hymns helped me with some things this morning. And I'm grateful that we sung them because they ministered to some things in my heart. They reminded me that God is always faithful. And you and I need to be in a place where we're reminded of that, where the word of God is declared, and it helps us to hold fast. Listen, you start to waver. When you start to waffle in your commitment to the local church. You start to waver. And I only s look, I'm not saying that because I'm mad at anybody. I'm saying that because I want to help us We live in a world that's pulling you and pulling me. We've got preachers that are saying you don't need the church. You know what they're they're they're saying. Most of them are so secretly saying, But you need my ministry You need to listen to my my teachings. You need to follow my way. I'm going to tell you, throw all that garbage out and start following this old Bible. And get yourself in a local church where the Bible's preached a and and follow that man as he follows the Lord Jesus. Listen, the Bible teaches us very clearly that that we uh gotta stand fast And he's given us the house of God to be an encouragement to stand fast. Somebody said the preaching of the word is like the hammering of a nail. It just drives it down and makes it stay fast. A friend of mine was remodeling an old house and it had them old iron nails. It's how they put together he he wanted to save a portion of that house. And so he he said it it had those old nails. And he said it it was he thought he's going to have to take a stick of dynamite to get them nails out. He made this statement. He said there's a world of difference between the nails made then and the nails made now. You know, he he but he said you know what when he pulled them things out they were straight as an air and still good And he said, I took them things, I drove them back in, and he said, you know what they did? They held fast. They held fast. You ever notice that when the sun, maybe you've never paid attention to this, but when the sun and the weather, the hot, the cold beats down on something that's exposed, it'll start pulling the nails out? It'll do that in a roof. It'll do that on the side of a building. That constant exposure, that constant uh difficulty if you will just pulls and and before you know it you'll look and be that nail just sticking up. Nobody came along and pulled that. All that all that friction and all that exposure made that nail start to back out a little bit. And what do you have to do? Now today this is not as common, but there was a day when you'd have to get up on the roof and you'd nail that thing back down, nail it back down, fix that roof. Because it was being pulled loose You go out in this world and the devil is sitting on your shoulder. You go to work and man, you hit hell right in the face You go about your life and and you're trying to live for God, you're not in a friendly territory. This world is not our home Where listen, you're opposed and and the that there's opposition on every hand, and you know what every once in a while your nail starts slipping, you need to get in the house of God where that nail gets nailed back down Where that thing gets put back in its place where it holds fast. I was listening to Brother Ron Beatty preach this morning. Brother Ron uh pastor down in eastern North Carolina. Brother Beatty was preaching this message. This was back in the 80s, this message was recorded. Now, you know, that's 40 years ago. If you don't feel old already. The eighties. Can you imagine? Anyway He was talking about America and as he was preaching he was preaching on the wicked sin of abortion. And he was talking about all the babies that were being m murdered and it was it paled in comparison in 1980 to what it does in 2025. He was preaching against the evil of of same-sex marriage, and he talked about how in California that week they had just passed a law that uh that that recognized uh marriage as being more than just one man and one woman And he was talking about the evil and he had to stop in the middle of his service. He said, look, he said, this is the house of God. I don't understand why I feel such resistance against such a thing that is so true. And I thought, Brother Baity, if you are alive today, sir. We preach about right things and right things get thrown right back up. God's people don't want to hear it. I mean things that are plain black and white in the Word of God, just as clear as they can be, and yet God's people resist what the Bible says. But I'm here to tell you whether the culture likes it or not, whether the Christians accept it or not, it's still true in the Word of God. And we need to hold fast and be faithful and listen, the faithfulness of God, we're reminded of that In the house of God, we need to be in a place where we're helped to hold fast. You can't hold fast by playing loose with the local church. Number three, let us consider one another. Verse twenty-four. Let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. Consider one another. That means think about others Take to heart others. Think about somebody other than yourself. Wow, what a selfish world we live in. I was thinking the other day, people will run over people to get ahead of them in in the store. To buy something they likely don't need and probably have three of it home. Let us consider. You know, we we drive by and we watch we watch people in all sorts of difficulties and We say I I you know I the the big mantra today is I'm not getting involved. I had a meeting, a half day meeting, merely a whole day meeting, with some insurance people and And started off the meeting by saying, liability is the word of the day. I said, well, it may be the word of the day, but it sure has tarnished the testimony of Christians. We're so worried about what'll happen to us we don't do right. But my Bible says I'm to consider one another. I'm to think about my brothers. I'm to think about my sisters I'm to think about does my behavior encourage their faith or not? Does my choices, do my decisions, are they helping them to grow in the Lord Jesus? Paul had to deal with that back in the book of Galatians with those Galatian believers, and they said, But we have liberty, we're free, we can do what we want to do. And Paul, in so many words, said, Yeah, but consider your weaker brethren. Consider those that may stumble at your decisions, and consider those that may be weakened by your direction. And live not for yourself, but for the Lord and for the good of his people. Let us consider. Look at the fellowship that's mentioned here. Provoke unto love and to good works. That's what God's people gathering does in a very real sense. We stir each other up to do right. Now the Lord help us to make that our goal as a Christian. That we stir each other up to do right, to love and to good works. By the way, if we did what the Bible said, do you know how many problems would be averted? If we just did what the Bible said, do you know gossip wouldn't exist if Christians wouldn't listen to it? If somebody came along and said, I I've got something to tell you, it's real juicy, you say, look, my ears aren't a garbage can, take it somewhere else. That that it wouldn't it just stop. These old grudges and divisions and feuds that carry on and live from generation to generation, they would die in their tracks if we would do what Ephesians 4. 32 said. Be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. I'm talking about putting Christianity in shoe leather and living what God says. Let us consider one another. You know what we do? We fuel the fire of our wicked flesh. I've been watching those some of the news reports out of California. Boy, they'll tell you that wind that come through and is coming through. All that's doing is just fueling that fire, buddy. But that wind, when that starts blowing real hard and it it just you you've seen some of the I mean stuff just erupts, a little bitty little bitty flame, you know, not hardly a two inches high. Can go as high as a as a mountain nearly, it seems, and run like a steam engine over everything because it's being fueled, it's being encouraged. Remember hearing the old saying, if you if you ain't got nothing good to say, don't say nothing at all. Man, that that I I think you can find Bible principle. You can't find that directly in the King James Bible. But you can find a Bible principle that goes along with that How much of this stuff would end if we would do what the Bible says? I'm talking about, and by the way, the fellowship of God's people is not meeting and talking about the game last night on TV. That's not fellowship. Boy, I can't wait to get to church, talk about my team, how they won. Now don't get mad at me, but listen, I want to help you. There's a better place and a better time for that kind of discussion. You ought to be saying, How can I stir up my brothers and sisters to live for the Lord? Maybe they're lacking a little in some area and they're struggling, and maybe they just need an encouragement. Maybe all they need is a simple, I'm praying for you. That may be all they need. But the fellowship of the Christians, we provoke, we stir up one another one another to love and to good works. We're encouraging each other that fellowship, and by the way, it can only be accomplished with constant, close contact. You can't have fellowship over the radio. That cursed pandemic, or whatever that was that came through, conditioned And revealed the tendency of many a heart. I'll t I'll take my I I I'll take my my food to go, so to speak. Right? I don't my my kids they they'll tell you this. I I don't like to eat out There are a lot of reasons for it, but if if we're going to do something special, I say, can we can we get the food and take it home? They know that. Every once in a while they say, Dad, it'd be nice if we just go in there and sit down. You know You can man it but it ain't gonna change it. I'm just gonna tell you. I love you, but anyway But we've sorta got that mentality, well I'll take my I'll take my preaching on the couch. Well you can get you food to go, but you can't have fellowship. You've got to have contact. I'm going to tell you something. Over these years of serving the Lord, I've walked into a church house, maybe had a burden on my heart, and some good godly person said, Hey, I'm praying for you Not even know what's going on. Boy, it just felt like the the hand of the Lord come in and strengthen that heart. That's what fellowship does. That's what provoking one another under love and to good work. We gotta stir each other up. This old world stirs your flesh up every other day of the week. You need to be somewhere that'll stir you up for God and stir you up for good. Watch this, what he goes on to say, not forsaking. The assembling of ourselves together, not forsaking. Notice it's in the negative. This thing of forsaking He's reminding us that the fellowship that we enjoy takes place when we don't forsake the assembly. Now, I know many are going to say to me, or perhaps have said to me, have said to me , we didn't have a New Testament assembly as we know it now by this point. But I'll tell you what we did have, we had saints who assembled starting from the day of Pentecost on. And if you want to get real technical and touchy and biblical, they met every day. They met every day. They gathered to be instructed. They gathered to be encouraged. They gathered to be edified. They gathered to obey the Lord. But they especially gathered on that Lord's day. That day that was dedicated to the recognition of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. You fast forward to the revelation in Revelation 1. John was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. His circumstances kept him from assembling with the saints, but it didn't keep him from assembling with the Savior. He met with the Lord. He's saying, don't forsake that. That word means to turn away from and count as nothing. Well, that's what a lot of folks do, the church. They turn away from it and count it like it's nothing. You know, fewer and fewer Americans attend church, and I don't believe it's the church's problem as far as what the church is trying to do. I believe it's the Christians' problem. Because more and more Christians avoid the church. Or more and more so-called professing believers believe that you know the church is sort of like a spare tire. It'll be there when I need it. It's sort of an emergency thing. It's nothing they're committed to. It's nothing they're dedicated to. It's nothing that they realize, look, it's it's an important place And my part in it is very important, and my participation is very important, and my contribution is important because I'm voting, I'm saying I want this to continue. Folks, I'm saying if if we're not faithful, don't expect the lost people to come. And if we're not faithful, don't expect our children to think church is important. We're reaping the fruit of the generation before us who said, Well, having fun on Sunday is more important than being faithful to God's house. And now they say, Well I I'll go if I get time. I don't know if it's important. My mom and daddy didn't do a lot of things right. I'll be the first to tell you. But one thing they did do is you never ask the question, what are we doing Sunday? Never. I never got up on a Sunday morning and said, Wonder if we're going to church. I got I got up many a Sunday morning and said, I better get my hide and high gear. I gotta get ready. The Hitchens talk about coming and doing bu doing the broadcast with his hair all messed up. I'd like seen all that. He probably would too. But man, whether you were ready or not, Dad said it's time to go. I mean he he jerked me, we're going, we're going to church. He said, You're not making me late. He said, Your inability to be prompt is not my problem, it's yours. So you go to church in your pajamas a time or two, you'll learn the lesson, amen. You say, How mean, no, how grateful I am. I'm grateful that he saw the importance. It was there, God saved my soul as an eight-year-old boy. It was there the Holy Ghost put the call of God on my heart to preach. He was there, God done some things and has done things over the years that I'll never get over. I'm just saying, church, listen, we can't forsake the assembly ourselves. I don't know how much longer we have till the Lord comes. But until the Lord comes, this community needs a lighthouse standing and shining and preaching and pointing to the Lord Jesus. But it's not going to happen accidentally. And it's not going to happen because somebody was faithful 50 years ago. And it's not going to happen simply if we just sort of drift away in and out, up and down. It'll happen because somebody says, though none go with me, still I will follow. A commitment to not forsake the assembling. And look what he says here in verse, the latter part of verse 25. Exhorting one another and so much the more as you see the day approaching. He talks about the future here He said, I want you to realize what day you're living in and how important the church is. Isn't it interesting that the closer we get to the Lord's return, how little regard is given to the Lord's house? When the Bible commands opposite. See, we need a generation of so much the more We need a people with the spirit of so much the more. Sadly, it's been replaced with so much the less. Sometimes we travel to North Carolina, and honestly, it is hard to find a church that meets on Sunday night. On three occasions, we've had no other option but to listen to this broadcast because nobody was having church. I drove to one place. I said, I know this man of God. Surely they still meet on Sunday night, pulled in the parking lot, completely empty. Went to one church and they said, well, uh only our teens meet. Um I I guess you could set in, but um, you know, it's kind of like you're not welcome here, but we don't want to tell you that, so just move on. And I'm thinking, what's wrong with us? Where's that spirit of so much the more? That's the spirit of the Lord. The Lord says so much the more. We're getting close, friend, to the coming of the Lord. And I'm going to need the word of God, and I'm going to need the fellowship with God's people. I'm going to need the encouragement. I'm going to need the rebuke. I'm going to need the reproof. I'm going to need the correction. I'm going to need the instruction. I'm going to need That so much more is as this world gets messed up, even worse I'm gonna need that and I I need that spirit of the so much the more as you see the day approaching. I don't believe a person's not saved because they don't go to church. But I believe if they are saved and they're trying to live right and do right, they'll want to be in the house of God. They'll want to be with the Lord's people. And and the and the The more right we are with God, the closer we are with the Lord, the more of this spirit we've got burning in our heart. So much the more. So much the more. Can I ask you this morning, where are you personally? Are you a so much the more, or are you a so what? A lot of folks are so whatters. So what? Or are we the so much the less we're looking for an excuse to say, well, you know, you know, I and I know we got a lot of people sick, and please don't take wrong what I'm about to say. But I've seen a lot of miracles happen on Monday and Thursday. Near-dead people come to life and get resurrected come Monday morning. Amen. That's so much the less spirit. I'm not going to give unearthly authority anymore than I'm going to give my king. I'm not going to give an allegiance or a loyalty or an effort any greater to a man on earth than I'm going to give to the man who died on the cross for my sin. Friend, where are you? Where are you? I'm asking myself the same question. Where am I? Am I so much the more? Do you know you can be faithful to every service and still be a so-what? I'm here 'cause I have to be. Or I'm here because, you know, I ain't got nothing else to do Or I'm here because I don't want anybody to think ill of me. I've got the so what spirit. I need and you need us so much the more. Oh God, help us this morning Help us to s help us to search our hearts as we start this new year. Lord, am I so much the more? Have I got that spirit? And if I don't, let's confess it and say, Lord, help me with it, because I want that. I want that so much the more. I want a fire burning in my heart. I believe God's willing to light some fire if we'll give him some tender to burn Will you be us so much the more? Let's bow our heads a moment. Father, please work now.