I hope your heart is amazed at how good the Lord's been to you. The Lord has been good to us. As one of our brothers often says, better than we deserve. And I am grateful for the Lord's goodness. In keeping with that, I want you to look with me in the book of Isaiah, the Old Testament. I want you to go with me, please, to chapter number 60. And I'm going to read one verse, and from that verse, I'm going to lift four words that I pray the Lord will burn in our hearts this morning. Isaiah chapter number 60, verse number 19, if you're able to stand, would you please stand with me? Isaiah chapter 60. Look what verse nineteen says. The sun shall be no more thy light by day Neither for brightness shall the moon give light unto thee. Now, you may say, wait a minute, that sounds familiar Uh that that ought to ring a bell with you if you've read your Bible, because in Revelation chapter 21, here's what John said. And I saw no temple therein, for the Lord God Almighty, and the lamp are the temple of it. And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to shine in it, For the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the light thereof. By the way, the verse I just read here in Isaiah 60 will be fulfilled in eternity future. When our Lord uh consumes everything and becomes the the the light of that new Jerusalem. But now read on But the Lord shall be unto thee an everlasting light, and thy God thy glory. Would you look at those four little words? Thy God, thy glory. Our Father, help us, please. I pray that you would take your word, make it real in our hearts. Speak to us like only you can. Help me in these few moments. Lord, at very best, all I can do is reach ears. And not without your help. But Lord, in mercy you must reach hearts. And so, Father, please work in this meeting for your glory and our good. We ask it in Jesus' name, Lord, we need thee. And we confess it, and we pray, Father, and wait before you for your fullness and your enablement. Have your own way. Hide me behind the cross. Help me to lift up Jesus. For it's in his mighty name we pray. And God's people said You can be seated. I want you to consider those four words thy God, thy glory Thy God, thy glory. Now, glory in the Bible speaks of something in particular, and I want you to think about these four definitions. One, glory can mean beauty. The beautifying work of God. That word glory can represent that. Glory can also mean splendor, the splendor of something. Glory can also mean the word honor, but it can also mean boasting. But I think when you put it all together, the beauty, splendor, honor, and boasting, the word glory as it's used here in Isaiah 60, I believe all four definitions apply. Because for the believer, our glory is in God. I want you to think about that with me for a moment. We already read in Revelation chapter 21 the literal fulfillment of the verse here in Isaiah But as you go back in the beginning of the book of Revelation, you read of the church who will be prevalent in the last days, the last church, the Laodicean church. And the Laodicean church had a glory, but it was not the glory of God. It wasn't God that they gloried in. You say, well, how do you know that? Well, here's what the Bible says. The Bible says in Revelation chapter number 3 that here's what the church said: we are rich. increased with goods and have need of nothing. Do you hear what they're glorying in? They're glorying in their material. They're glorying in their wealth. They're glorying in their position. They're saying, God, we don't need anything We are glorying in our self-sufficiency. We're glorying in what our money can buy. We're glorying in all the buildings that we possess. Here's what we glory in. And the and and the Lord says, wait a minute. Wait a minute. I counsel thee. In other words, he said you might want to listen to me because I've got some advice for you, because the truth is you're poor. And you're miserable, and you're blind, you're naked. He just he literally says, you think you've got something and you've got absolutely nothing. The glory of the believer is never in his accomplishments, his attainments, or his achievements. We glory in God. Thy God, thy glory. When you think about what Isaiah is saying here, it's literally life-changing. When you study that word, I'm not going to I don't want to get sidetracked, but there's a real study to be done here in this word glory. In Exodus, mark this down, Exodus chapter 28. The Lord's telling Moses how to prepare the robes and the hats and the attire, if you will, of the priest. And he says this in Exodus 28, 32, he says, these garments are for glory and for beauty. They're for glory and for beauty. Now the tabernacle was not a magnificent thing to look at. But the adornment of the priest was quite different than the adornment of that tabernacle in that it drew the attention and it was for glory and for beauty. And so God's saying that the the clothing, if you will, of that priest was to make the people give glory and honor and praise to God For this thing that he had created. Now, you say, why is that important? Well, we've got to understand that that priest represented a person who would come in the days ahead. That priest would be a top picture shadow of the Lord Jesus himself. And when those people looked at that priest, they were to see the coming Messiah of the Lord Jesus And he was to be robed in glory and beauty. Now they would build something. David would get in his heart something that I believe God put there. Some would argue and say that David came up with this and it wasn't David. It was God that put in David's heart. He wanted a house for God to dwell in. He wanted something that would honor the Lord. And that was God's doing. Put that in David's heart. And although David wasn't permitted to carry it out, he sure made preparation for it. And that is the building of the temple. David gives instructions here to his son Solomon, and I want you to listen to just a portion of it in 1 Chronicles 22 verse 5. Here's what he says about the temple. He said the temple must be exceeding. Now here's a word you don't hear anymore. It's an old English word. We use the word magnificent He uses the word magnifical. This temple must be exceeding magnificent of fame and of glory throughout all countries In other words, this temple is going to represent the Lord, and it must be of such quality That it has a glory about it. In all the countries of the earth there ought not to be anything like it Now you say, preacher, why would he do such a thing for a building? I can understand for the robes of the of the priests because it represented, let me remind you that what that temple was was a physical, visible representation of God's presence among his people. That temple represented that God was there among them. It was where they met God, it was where they worshiped God, it represented to them, it was not God, but it was God's representation of his physical presence among his people. And may I remind you that we have something that although is not physical or visible or tangible, We have a representation of the presence of God among his people in the person of the Holy Ghost who lives in each of us. And again, what I'm getting at is this: that the glory of the Christian is the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. What is it that makes you beautiful in the eyes of God? What is it that gives you splendor or honor or reason to boast? It is not anything we've done. I fear oftentimes success does us more harm than failure. Because we tend to think that our hands have. . Remember what God told Israel? He said, when you go and live in houses you didn't build, And you eat from vineyards you didn't plant, and you drink from wells that you didn't dig, beware lest thou forget God. It was God that brought them into that land. It was God that gave them those vineyards. It was God that gave them those wells. It was God that gave them those blessings. And the danger is, is that we start looking around and glorying in what we are or what we've done or who who we c what we call ourselves and not glory in the Lord. There's a very real danger among us who believe this Bible literally. And we believe this Bible literally. But there's a real danger of getting proud of what we believe rather than being proud of whom we believe. There's a real danger of beginning to glory in our flesh. I want you to look with me back in the New Testament at a text of Scripture, 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. 2 Thessalonians chapter number 2, and it's verse number 14. I want you to note this verse, because I believe it's very important for us as Christians to get a hold of this truth. Second Thessalonians chapter two and verse number fourteen Notice what the Bible says, whereunto He called you by our gospel. To the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. The only thing that a Christian should ever glory in is Jesus. The Apostle Paul said, I know that in my flesh there dwells no good thing. And I'm praying that the Lord will help us to make these four little words our theme for our lives. I'm praying that these four little words will become the mark of distinction among us as a people of God. Thy God, thy glory. What made Israel so distinct among the nations of the earth? It was not their great number. There were nations that were much larger. It was not their great wealth, though there was times in their existence that they were a very wealthy people. I mean, in Solomon's day, uh gold was just like nothing in that country. I mean, they they they shipped all kinds of wealth uh to Solomon during his reign and it was nothing to see buildings with gold adornment and and uh to see all the elaborate gardens and things that Solomon did. So there was great wealth, but it wasn't the wealth of Israel that gave Israel a glory. It was Jehovah God. It was their God who lived among them. When that band of wanderers made their way through a wilderness. And they're wandering here, living in tents and moving about as God would have them move. There was a glory on that people. There was a glory on that people as they made their way through. In fact The Bible tells us that Rahab says, when they get ready to go into the land, we've heard about you, and the fear and dread of you is on us. And you know what she said? Because of your God. It's your God that has made us afraid because He's different than our gods. Oh, gods were a plenty in that day. They carved them and they chipped them out of stone and they m made them out of wood and they bowed down before them. They worshiped the the the the constellations of heaven. But there was a God among those people that did things that no other God could do He was a God who dried up seas and rivers, who provided food out of nowhere, who put sh clouds of protection and fires of warmth. Listen, he was a God who's alive and well. He was their glory. Marinatha Baptist Church, if we ever start glorying in anything other than Jesus Christ, we're going downhill. We're on a slippery slope downward when we begin to glory. Listen, we can sit around and glory in our buildings. We can glory in our finances, we can glory in our membership, we can glory in our leadership, but the only thing we got to glory in is Jesus Christ. Thy God, thy glory. Thy God, thy glory. Oh, the glory of our God. Have you ever stopped and think about the beauty, the splendor, the honor? The boasting that we ought to be doing about our Lord, the the the magnifying and the exalting of God There was a day when Christianity was about the God it served. Listen to me, please. It's not like that anymore. The bulk of Christianity is about the conveniences that we often are offered. Christianity's cry today is comfort, comfort. Christianity's cry today is come have fun. But my friend, where's the glory? You know, my Bible says that when God met Moses on Mount Sinai, there was fear , trembling. Man, God had come on that mountain. And God had come on that mountain in such a way that if an animal were to touch it, he was to be thrust through. He was to be a night listen, God was there. This wasn't a place uh of of just hilarity, this wasn't a place of of just you know uh uh of fun. This was not a carnival ride. My friend, this was where God had come. And the Bible tells us that mountain was dark, black with clouds, thunders, and lightnings, and Moses went up in the middle of that. I don't know that Moses went with his head up and his shoulders square. Perhaps Moses, in the fear of God, went with trembling. Moses knew, listen, he was in God's presence. But it was there God would talk with Moses and give him the Ten Commandments. By the way, when you study, you're to study this statement, the finger of God. One of the things that the finger of God did was write those commandments. He wrote them on stone. Moses didn't do that. God did. And God wrote those commandments in stone and Down from that mountain he came. But remember, when Moses came down off that mountain, there was something different about him. In fact, there was something about Moses after being in the presence of God that the people could not stand. They couldn't look at him. They said, Moses, you're going to have to cover your face. And listen, Moses wasn't aware of it. Here's our problem today. There's a glory about Christians, but they're aware of it. And when they're aware of it, it's not the glory of God. It's mere the boastings of men. Moses didn't know what was the matter. He didn't know what was wrong, but the Bible says his face shone. Man, they couldn't look. They said, you're gonna have to cover your face, Moses. If you talk to us, you're gonna have to cover your face. Because what was what was on Moses, it was the glory of God He had been stamped with the glory of God. Now, Paul writes in the book of Hebrews, if that message of law, if that message of judgment was glorious How much more glorious is the New Testament gospel of the grace of God in the Lord Jesus Christ, where the Spirit of God comes to live in everybody who believes? That's a more glorious ministration. That's a more glorious thing. Now, if you think Moses would shine, how much more should the Christian shine? Not with the glory of our own awareness, but with the glory of God that says God lives there. God dwells there. The difference in that end of. And by the way, my friend, the only thing that makes us different It is not the the the worth of ourselves. You know, sometimes we get this thing mixed up and we think, well, I'm just better than. Let me say something to you. Nobody's better than anybody. Now you if you're saved, you're better off, but you're not better than. There's a big difference. You can be better off and not be better than. The reality is that all of us had to come to God the same way. All of us had to come Calvary's way. All of us had to come through the blood the same way. All of us had to come through faith in the Lord Jesus. We had to be born again. None of us have nothing to boast of except the precious Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible makes it clear that we're to glory in Christ. Moses had a glory about him, and God's people have a glory about them. We're different. You know, sometimes people try to be different and they make themselves fools If you're saved, you don't have to try. And please understand I'll say more about it. But what I'm trying to say is you don't have to try to be different. You are different. You're different. Some someone greater than you has taken up residence on the inside. And brother, sister, that'll make a difference. You know the problem with a lot of Christianity today? It lacks Christ. There are a lot of people name the name. I don't brother, I I don't believe for a moment that just naming the name does the job. You can name all sorts of names. You can claim to be. I could say, I'm a Kanoi. I could claim that, couldn't I, Charlie? But that don't make me one. I wasn't born in your family. I don't have that blood, the Kanoi blood in my veins. And I can stand before you and you can stand before me and say I'm a Christian. But that doesn't make you a Christian. You've got to, my friend, come to the Lord Jesus by faith and be washed in the blood and born into the family. And when you get born into the family, you have in you a nature that comes with the new birth. It's the nature of our Lord who lives in us by his Spirit. What a difference that is. And there's an inerrant glory in being a Christian. See, I think the great trick of the devil has been to sell us a bill of goods. And create a counterfeit Christianity. Paul said to a bunch of professing believers in Galatia, You've believed another gospel You're not believing the gospel of the Lord Jesus that changed his lives. You've created one of your own making. It's a sham. It's a fake, it's a counterfeit. And my friend, I fear that it's rampant and widespread in our day. There's a lot of sham Christianity A Christless Christianity is no Christianity at all. A Christianity that doesn't make a man a new creature is not a Christianity of the Bible. The Bible still says it, says it emphatically and plainly, if any man, therefore, if any man be in Christ He is not he's becoming, not he hopes one day to be, not one day it'll it'll come to pass. He is a new creature. He's a new creature And when the Lord Jesus moves in your life, buddy, he goes to work. He goes to work. When he comes to live in you, you know what he does? He cleans the place up. He cleans the place up. I know I've told you. But I'll remind you that, you know, are you men, uh we ought to be thankful for our wives and their desire to clean things up. Because most fellows I know are pigs. Just put it simple. And uh, you know, you have you and I have a tendency, I remember, you know, when I got married, Elizabeth moved there where I had been living I was first a little bit took back that she was not as impressed with my housekeeping skills as I thought she would be. She didn't like my milk and coveralls hanging in the kitchen hallway where I could get them real easy as I went out in the morning. And she didn't like my toolbox, scooted up under the kitchen table, because it was a whole lot easier to reach it there. Or my desire to sharpen the chainsaw on the kitchen table, you know Richard, it needed sharpment. I mean, is it it was a good strong table. It was the closest one I had. And she didn't take kindly to all that stuff And she started sweeping and she started cleaning and she started washing and she started doing a lot of things that for a little bit I was like, I don't know what I've got myself into. I just pray I can get through this on the other side. But then I got to liking it. It was nice to have clean dishes. I remember the old fellow I used to work for, his wife would travel away sometimes and And uh he would he would use one dish and one cup and one fork and he'd just rinse it off And he for a for a whole week that's the way he had he would eat, you know. And and that was the man I was working for at the time. He owned the farm and and uh I thought, well, if it works for him, it'll work for me And every once in a while you'd get things growing. You'd like, I better watch, you know. It was nice to sit down and have a clean utens and a clean plate. Amen? Now, my friend, I want you to know something. When God moves in, he goes to work. And he cleans us up. And he takes things out of you and out of me that are unlike him. And how many of you know the work never ends? Huh? Is he not doing that now? Is he not doing that for us now? Many of you have been saved. Hadn't even been saved more than 30 years. Would you raise your hand? Look. My my multitude. 30 years Has he done any house cleaning this week? Has the Spirit of God said, Mm-mm? Not there. Not that. You see, we're a we're a work in progress. But I said all that to say this, that we as believers are to glory in the Lord Jesus only. The only thing that makes you different, it's not because you're a member of Marinatha Baptist Church. A lot of times, and I'm thankful, don't don't don't don't misread or misunderstand or even misconstrue what I'm trying to say. I'm thankful for our membership. I'm thankful for our local church. I praise the Lord for it and for its heritage and history and all of those things. But I'm telling you, my friend, those things are not what makes us unique. The splendor, honor, beauty, glory, boasting of believers is not in our heritage. It's not in our associations. It's not in our affiliations or lack thereof. I've met men in the past who were so proud of the fact they didn't fellowship or like nobody, they didn't get along with anybody because they believed different than everybody. Sometimes that's just being cantankerous. Covered up with a spiritual rag. My point is this morning is that we're to glory in the Lord. Not in who we are or what we do or what we've accomplished. My friend, there's going to come a day when none of that's going to matter. Do you understand that? There's going to come a day that it's not going to make two hoots or a row of pins. What goes behind your religious denomination? It's not going to be important. It's not going to be important where your name's written down so far as in places in this world. It's not going to be important as to who you are or who you view yourself to be. All of that's going to burn up in the brightness of the glory of the God you stand in front of. Now you think about it. There's going to be such a glory. Oh my. You and I are going to be I don't know if you've ever watched a bug zapper work. And there's a drawing, there there's there's a light that draws these critters in. Draws them in. And man they just they'll go to it. And then all of a sudden they burn up. You ever anybody you know what I'm talking about? You know what a bug's after it's all right I'm here to tell you there's a glory about our God. And one of these days when I stand in front of Him, all that junk, all that stuff we get proud about. I used to hear preachers, man, when they got through telling what they were, they had 50 adjectives. 50 adjectives. Independent, fundamental, missionary mind. All of that. And I'm not discrediting anything that comes directly out of the Word of God, but I'm saying this: I glory only in the Lord. All of that's gonna burn up. I don't care about your pedigree, and by the way, God don't either. I don't care about your accomplishments And all of the things that that we think we are or have been or have done, all of that's going to go up in a brilliant sea of smoke when we stand in the presence of God and all we're going to be able to do is bow our heads and say, Thank God for mercy in Jesus Christ. The blood of Christ has saved me and cleansed me and I'm only here on the merits of another. Nothing else matters. Church, nothing else matters. I'm talking about glory. What do we glory in? What are we glorying in? I'm grateful for the great things God has done, but sometimes we attribute them to the wrong source. We speak as if it was man's doing and not God's. Do you know what stopped the Welsh Revival? of 1904 started really in 1902, but it built and sort of just exploded in 1904 throughout the country of Wales and literally around the world. And that day they would have the Keswick Conventions and what are called the Deeper Life Conventions, and as those were held in England and various places, the The fire of that thing, the moving and working of God was carried by God's people. But as this thing really grew The people made a dangerous mistake. They took the man that God used and they started lifting him up. And it got so bad that he, it it bothered him so bad that he stopped announcing where he was going to speak. He wouldn't speak he he he wouldn't tell them where he was going to be, he wouldn't tell anybody where he was going to speak because he didn't want the attention on himself, but sadly all of the attention started being directed towards him. And when that happened, the revival died. And there are old Welshmen I I have met uh at least two they've passed But they were alive in that time period, and they told about how God was moving until they elevated him. And when they started giving glory to the instrument rather than God, God stepped away. You know why? Because God don't share his glory with anybody. He alone deserves the glory. I don't know if you garden. How many of you garden or have gardened? And I'm sure if you've gardened you've had to deal with weeds, and so in dealing with weeds, you've probably used a hoe. And you've took that hoe and you've gone out there and you've cut weeds or cultivated that ground up a little bit so that the moisture can get through to the roots of the plant. You've worked out there, and I guarantee you, not one of you have gone and sat on your porch after you've made that garden look immaculate. Put your hoe up on the on the on the railing of the deck and say, Isn't that a magnificent hoe? I want you to look at that thing. That thing has made my garden so beautiful. I'm so proud of that. I I'll just tell you, and and sat down to a nice uh you know plate of uh of fresh vegetables out of that garden, those new potatoes boiled just right. with about half a stick of butter in 'em. And uh corn on the cob that you've grown and and and just I mean salted to the point it looks like a salt lick not a corn cob and uh Just just sit there and enjoy those beans and tomatoes and cucumbers and all of that stuff And say, you know what? That hoe is some piece of work. That thing has done a great job in my garden. You don't do that, do you? No, you say, well, I'll tell you, I worked hard and grew some really nice things. It was the one that took and used that hoe that deserves the credit. And what I'm saying is that all of us here as Christians are mere instruments in the hand of God, and all glory's got to go to Him, because nothing would be done if He didn't do it. Remember this, thy God, thy glory. Thy God, thy glory. Let me give you three things we glory in. Number one, we glory in the finished work of the cross for salvation. Galatians six says, God forbid That I glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. God forbid he said that I should ever glory in anything, anything, but the cross of Jesus Christ Paul understood that here on the cross is sin debt was paid. Here the blood was shed. Here salvation was acquired. Here, as the old hymn writer wrote, Jesus paid it all, and it's all to him I owe. Folks, you and I, listen, I've heard testimonies that almost sounded like we gave God a hand in getting us in. And they talk like, they talk like, well, pat me on the back a little, because I'm a Christian. I'm here to tell you, friend, if it weren't for God, you wouldn't be saved. Do you understand that faith is a gift? Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. We we often do not read that slow enough or clear enough to understand that that salvation, the gift of faith, is is a gift of God. That salvation is a work of God. I don't contribute anything but my sins that damn me. It's Jesus that must deliver me. And I've got to give him all the credit. He we're if you glory, hey, practice giving your testimony in a way that gives God the most glory. Work on telling. I'm not saying make it up, but learn the intricate details of what God's done so you can say it in a way that all credit gets put on his account. That all the glory goes to him. Listen, when we get up and say, Well, I found the Lord in 19 , let me tell you something. You didn't find the Lord, he found you. He wasn't lost. He didn't need to be found. He found you. You were the sheep gone astray. You were the lost sinner dead in sin. You were lying there, my friend, helpless, hopeless, without God in this world. And it was God that in mercy stopped by and said to your dying soul, live, and you began to live. Oh my friend, listen, give glory to God for your salvation. Note this quickly, number two. We ought to give glory to God for his faithful work of sanctification. Philippians 1 6 says, Being confident of this very thing, he that hath begun a good work in you will perform it. Until the day of Christ Jesus. If you're a better Christian today than you were when you got saved, and I hope you are If you're more like Jesus now than you were ten years ago or five years ago, if there's growth and improvement in your life, bow your head and give God the glory because He's the reason for it. He's the reason for it. He's the reason that, my friend, you are what you are. Paul wrote to these uh Corinthians in 2 Corinthians chapter 4. He said, But we have this treasure. I believe it's verse number seven. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. There's another word, by the way, that's similar to glory excellency Paul said, you know what makes me different? You know why I am different? What made Paul a missionary as opposed to being a murderer? What changed him from being a persecutor to being a follower and a preacher of the gospel? It was the work of Jesus Christ in him. It was God working in. Look, we're just a vessel. And you know the most common vessel of that day was made of clay, and they were m they were numerous. If you had to carry water, it was it used in a clay vessel. If you stored grain, It was in a clay vessel. And these vessels were just everywhere. There was nothing significant about the vessel. What was important is what was on the inside. The treasure was on the inside. And can I say to you, my friend, I I I pray that we're better Christians. I pray that we there's things that have fallen off. You know, if a person really gets saved God does such a work in them that there's a lot of stuff that just leaves, like fleas abandoning a dead animal. Because there's not life here. That when that old life dies, there's stuff that just falls off. And I think a lot of times what we're trying to do is we're trying to do the work of the Holy Ghost where the Holy Ghost has never been. We're trying to make Christians, you know, you can't, you've heard the old saying, you can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear And you can't make a living thing out of something dead. I mean you can disciple that thing until it knows the Bible forwards and backwards, you can fill it with a whole lot of information. But it takes the living Holy Ghost to make transformation in a person's life and make them new creatures. Oh my friend, listen, if you've got any growing going on, if there's any fruit, if there's any abundance, if there's anything in your life, That makes you more like Jesus, you have to give him the credit for it. Glory in the work of Jesus in your life. Thy God, thy glory. Thy God, thy glory. Thirdly, I want you to see the fruitful work of God. Here's what we glory in. I read the text as we started the meeting in 2 Corinthians chapter 10. But let him that gloryeth glory in the Lord. And if you'll read that chapter, you'll find out that the Apostle Paul was talking about his ministry in Corinth. By the way, back in Acts 18, when Paul was in Corinth, it was bad, and it must have been so bad he was thinking about leaving town, and the Lord showed up and said, Don't leave, son, there are much people in this city. And he abode a year and a half preaching. He said, there's much people here. And he talked about how he ministered to them and how God gave the increase. And my friend, listen, if there's anything useful, successful, let's be purposeful in giving God the glory. God uses you. And I pray He does. I pray God uses you, every one of you. You may never stand behind a pulpit, but you may reach somebody. You may reach somebody and pull them out of the worst pit they'll ever be pulled out of. You may be the instrument God puts in their path. It may be that God lets you talk to somebody in some unusual place that nobody else will ever be. Mike, you'll be in places I'll never go. And listen, there's others of you that'll be Larry, you'll be in places I can never go or be, and there's people that'll listen to you that'll not listen to me. And yet God may use you to point them to Jesus. And I can't think of nothing better to live for than to be somebody that points somebody else to Jesus. To be able to say, you know what, God took my feeble efforts, I planted, I watered, somebody else may have planted, and I may have watered, or vice versa, but it is God that gives the increase. And it is God that must get the glory. We ought to all church, be careful. Be careful about what you glory in. You ever heard the old saying, don't count your chickens before they hatch? A lot of times we talk about all these accomplishments, and you know what? They're just they're vain. They're not accomplishments. We ought to be careful. I I get I I know we gotta have statistics and numbers and all of that, but I try and I beg God to help me. Don't get caught up in that. Don't get caught up in that. You know, if you're if you're in the habit of carving notches on your spiritual belt every time you get a kill Win a soul, point somebody to Jesus, ask God to get you over that. I think it's a dangerous trap to fall in. Well, I you know, we had we had listen, we profess in a night something it takes a lifetime to prove We had ten saved. How many of them gonna make it to the finish line? Now I'm not being critical, but I'm just saying that we ought to just step back and just give God the glory. Why do we do that sort of thing? Why is it that we glory in these numbers? Listen, listen, the only thing that I can glory in is the Lord Jesus. If my ministry blesses you in some way, it's because God does it. It has nothing to do with the instrument. It has nothing to do, brother or sister, with you and I and our efforts. Whatever it is that we do, let's be careful to give God all the glory. Paul said, I planted and Apollos watered, and it had to be God that gave the increase. There was a faithful work of God in service that we glory in, or excuse me, the fruitful work of God. If God does something, give him the glory. By the way, if something gets done, it's God that did it. If anything's ever accomplished, it's his doing. From beginning to end. Say, preacher, you talk like you believe God's just in charge of everything. Now you're getting it. Because I believe he is. And I believe if he don't do it, it's not worth doing. Oh, I know men can do. By the way, do you know you can build a church? You can you can you're I shouldn't say a church. You can assemble a gathering. You can draw them in, drag them in, bribe them in. You can do a lot of stuff to get people around and to have something. But my friend, it takes the God of heaven To reach down, make a dead soul live, and make a saint out of a rotten sinner. It takes the work of God Almighty. It'll be His doing. Give him the glory. Give him the glory. The only thing we can boast of today is Jesus. Always and in everything, only Him. Oh, that we would go back to thy God, thy glory. Would you stand with me, please? We'll close our meeting. If you're sitting here today or listening to this broadcast and you're not saved, only Jesus can save you. I'm not offering you a place of membership in the church or a line at the baptismal fountain. I'm just simply saying that Jesus died for your sin, was buried, and rose again the third day and offers a full and free salvation to every sinner who will come to him. Saying, God, I'm lost. I need to be saved. I'm hellbound without you. And only you can save me. Lord, save me. And friend, when you get that serious and honest, feel save your soul right then and there.