Once more in your hearing. 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse number 31. When you find your place, I know we were just standing, but would you stand once more to honor the book? 1 Corinthians chapter 10, verse number 31. Look at what the Bible says. Whether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God. The Lord helping me, I want to magnify especially these words, do all to the glory of God. Father, as we bow our heads again, we are confessing as we come to Thee that without you we can do nothing. And so, Father, both the preacher and the hearer need help this morning. Dear Lord, would you do for us what we cannot do for ourselves? We'll thank you and praise you, and we ask it in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. I hope you'll take time today or perhaps even tomorrow and read this chapter. Because in this chapter, Paul is instructing the believers on how to deal with those things, especially the meat that had been offered up to idols. And it is in this chapter we learn some real powerful principles. In fact, I'd like to point a few of those out. Look in verse 14 in the chapter. Here's something very powerful we all need to understand. The Bible says, wherefore, my dearly beloved, flee from idolatry. Flee from it. You say, Pastor, I don't have a statute at home that I bow down to. Well, idolatry is not just in the form of a statue that you build and bow down to. An idol is anything that gets put in the place that God alone deserves. And with that definition, there's a whole lot of idols around There's a lot of things that are in God's place in people's lives. And here's the command of the Word of God. Flee. Flee from idolatry. Here's another one, verse 23. All things are lawful for me, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but all things edify not. That's a powerful principle. I'm going to try to magnify some of these uh and just the reading of the text and not get bogged down on preaching them. But the reality is, not everything you can do should you do. Because it's just not good for you spiritually Well, preacher, I'm free. I hear people say all the time, well, I'm free. Well, yeah, you're free, but you're also free to go jump off a cliff But it's not good for you to jump off a cliff. Amen. There are some things you're free to do, but it's not expedient. Well, look again, verse 26. The Bible says the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. Need to remember that. And then look with me, if you will, at verse number 32. The Bible says, give none offense. Neither to the Jews, nor to the Gentiles, nor to the church of God. Then notice verse 33. Even as I please all men in all things, not seeking mine own profit, but the profit of many, that they may be saved. Boy, there are some powerful principles in this little chapter. But the crown jewel of all is the text I'm preaching from here this morning. Verse number 31, do all to the glory of God. Here's the key to life. I understand that years ago Dr. Dixon preached the message on motives matter most. Listen to me. Motives are important. Why you do what you do matters to the Lord. He's concerned about what motivates you And I want you to notice what should motivate us is the glory of God. Do all of the glory of God. Now let me try to define it. And then I'm going to give you some details about it. And then hopefully we'll see the need to make a decision just to just simply do it. Look with me first at the definition. What is the glory of God? I found this, and this is perhaps the most accurate definition I've ever read. The glory of God is the magnificence, the worth, the loveliness, and the grandeur of his many perfections. The magnificence, the worth, the loveliness, the grandeur of His many perfections. It's the glory of God. It's that which makes God God, in the sense that we recognize Him as standing out above all others. There is none liken unto Him. You you stop and think about the the the the perfections of the Lord. I love how Solomon wrote, and he said these words, he's altogether lovely. There's absolutely no flaw in him. You know something? You can put him in the spotlight and not find imperfection. I want you to remember that about the glory of God. You say, well, what does that have to do with me? How do I do all to that end? How do I do all to the glory of God? Well, number one, it's a matter of attention. It's a matter of attention. You see, when I do all to the glory of God, I'm drawing attention, or should draw attention, to the perfections and praises of God. If I can say it like this, I want men to see how perfect he is. We want the attention to be on the Lord We're drawing attention to him. We're saying, look at him. He's the one who's altogether lovely. I like how someone described a Christian. Someone said that a Christian is is like a pane of glass They're like a window pane of glass, through whom you look to see the scenery. You never stand at a pane of glass And come over there and I'm looking at this pane of glass and say, what a beautiful pane of glass. You never brag on the beauty or the transparency of the pane of glass. Now outside that pane of glass is a beautiful field. And uh, you know, if my imagination was working better, it'd be uh a ten-point buck standing just across the way there. But uh it it's the scenery that's important. And can I say to you as a Christian, the attention that you and I want to draw is the attention that looks through us unto him so that others can see the perfection of the Lord Himself. Do all to the glory of God. My words and deeds are to draw attention to Him. Secondly, it's a matter of recognition. And I use that word because I believe it also can mean honor. Who is it that I'm aiming to honor? Who is it that I want to recognize in my life? Who is it that my lifestyle is honoring to am I honoring me? There's really only two options. I'm either honoring myself or I'm honoring the Lord. The Bible says very clearly again, do all of the glory of God. Do all to the glory of God. I'll tell you there's a lot of things that we do that honor us and not Him. There are things that honor us. Well you say, Why do you do that? Because I want to. But does it honor the Lord? Is it honoring him? There's a lot of questionable things that would be eliminated in the Christian life if we just asked the question, Lord, does this honor you? Lord, am I honoring you with this activity? But I know, I know, we say things like, but but preacher, I'm free. Yes, you're free, but you're under a mandate. To honor the Lord. And you and I must honor Him word or deed, whatever it is we do. My dear friend, who's a missionary up north in the state of Maine. Had a man who got saved and and uh his whole lifestyle was totally contrary to what the Bible teaches. And he was having a real struggle as to whether he should drink alcohol or not. And brother uh brother Bell said to him one day He said, well, listen, the next time you want to drink whatever it is you're drinking, he said, I want you to get on your knees and I want you to ask God to bless. And God, I'm going to honor you by drinking and named whatever it was. And so he said he went home and that evening he got out whatever it was he was going to drink and he did what the preacher said. He got down on his knees and he prayed and he said, I had the awfulest uneasy feeling in my heart. He said, I decided I better not do that right now. Now he said I wasn't going to quit. He said I just wanted to get rid of that uneasy feeling. He said, probably the preacher's words had me kind of bothered, so I left it aside. He said, The next day come round, and he pulled it out, was going to do it again. He did what the preacher said. He got on his knees, he prayed. He said, Lord, I'm going to honor you by drinking this And and he said, for the life of me, he said I could not reach out and take hold of that bottle and drink. He said, by the next day, he got down on his knees and he said it dawned on him. He said, the preacher set me up. The preacher set me up. And he said, I went to the preacher and I said to him, What what is it that you did to me? What what what's this voodoo that you cast on me? He said, Not a thing. He said, Let me ask you something Do you believe that honors God? He said, I have to admit it doesn't. He said, Then why are you doing it? Dear Christian, I'm talking about something that is important in our lives. Do all to the glory of God. Whether it's a sinful thing or a questionable thing or if it's a thing about which you need uh clarity, go to the Lord and say, Lord, does this honor you? I believe it'd change our lives. It's a matter of recognition. But it's not just a matter of attention and recognition. Please hear this. It's also a matter of adoration. You know, John says it like this: we love him because he first loved us. And because we love him, we want to please him. You know, I think sometimes in our homes we have the idea, and there ought to be order in the home, and there ought to be structure and discipline in the home. But if it's not motivated by love, it does not get the job done. How many of you have heard these words? You do it because I said it. Okay. That carries weight to some degree. But there ought to be fostered in a home, a heart of love. And those kids ought to listen, if you lose the love of the heart of your children, you've lost control in your home. Oh, they may continue to do what they're told to do, but they'll not do it for the right reason. There ought to be love there. And so it is with the Lord. The Lord doesn't want you and I to walk around and do what we do simply out of fear of the repercussions or fear of what he may do to us if we don't. That plays a role, I guess, to some degree. But the real motivation ought to be, Lord, I love you and I want to please you. Lord, I love you and I want to honor you. Lord, I love you and I want all the attention to be turned towards you because you've been so good to me. Friend, you stop and think about it. Why would he love the likes of you? And don't get mad at me because I have to say, why does he love the likes of me? Why would he love me Why would he love somebody like me? He knew everything about me before I was ever born. He knew every decision I would make. He knew every failure. He knew every sin. And he loved me anyway. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. And the Lord Jesus knew exactly how I would fail and where I would fail. And he loved me and gave himself for me anyway. My dear friend, I want to challenge you this morning to honor him, to bring glory to him, because he loves you. Out of adoration, Lord, I love you. I love you. And I want to please you. Do you know the greatest force known to man is love? It's the greatest force. It's a binding power. You know what love did? Love led Peter to say, crucify me. I'm going to stay true to the Lord. And hi uh historically we're told, and and whether accurate or not, only God knows. But That he was crucified upside down because he did not feel worthy to die in the same manner as Jesus. That's what love will do. Love made Paul say, Take my head. My Lord's more important in my head, my life. Remember what he said? None of these things move me, neither count I myself, my life, dear unto myself, that I might finish my course with joy. He said, Lord, I love you so much that I'll die. It doesn't matter, live or die, whatever. I want to please you because I love you. I think what has happened in Christianity is we've missed the mark. And we've tried to legislate and enforce what only love can bring out. We've tried to make individuals live for God. You can't make anybody live for God. You can't make anyone, or for old, they'll put on the show and do the outward thing. But my friend, at the end of the day, God knows why they're doing it. And motives, your motives, the reason why you do what it is you do. Now listen, you say, well, I'm going to go to church so that preacher stays off my back Or I'm going to go to church so my wife or my husband won't be fussing at me. Or I'm going to just go to church because it looks good. It makes my family look good. And I'm going to go to church for it, and you fill in the blanks. But my friend, isn't it a whole lot better when we say, you know why I'm going? Because I love the Lord. And I want to please my Lord. And I want to honor my Lord. And I want to bring glory to the Lord. That's how God would have you live. Do you witness for the glory of God? A lot of times we do it because of the guilt that we incur. I don't want to feel guilty. I've got to get this number of tracks out. I've got to speak this number of souls. Hold on a minute. Are we doing so for the glory of God? Are we doing it because we love him and we love him so much we want others to know about him? Do you pray for the glory of God? Do you call on the Lord for the glory of God? Do you get down and say, Lord, I want to talk to you and I want to pour out my heart to you and I want to bring glory to you doing so? Do we pray to the glory of God? Preacher, do you preach to the glory of God? Now let me preach to me. You just take your nap and I'll carry on. But do you preach to the glory of God? You can preach to be seen. You can preach to be heard. You can preach to get your message across. You can preach for multitudes of reasons. But do you do that for the glory of God? Singer, do you sing to the glory of God? Choir member? Special song? Instruments that are played? Do we do that to the glory of God? Are we saying, God, you've enabled me to do something? You've given me that ability. to to do this. And so I'm going to take that and I'm going to do it. By the way, if you do something to the glory of God, you won't get out of sorts when you don't get the applause of men. When you do something for the glory of God, it won't bother you when men don't recognize you. Because you weren't doing it for them anyway. You're doing it for him. I'll tell you about the only thing that'll keep you faithful is to do all of the glory of God About the only thing that'll keep you going on for the Lord. There's so many sideline Christians, I guess what we would call them today. that are sitting on the sidelines watching everybody else serve the Lord and you meet them and they say, I used to teach Sunday school. I used to sing in the choir. I used to witness, I used to go to that church, I used to pray, I used to, I used to, I used to. Well, what happened? Why are we content with being used to? I think somewhere along the line we forget we do all to the glory of God. Do all to the glory of God. Do you know God would have his people live to bring glory to him? The Bible says here, we'll just go over a few chapters, 1 Corinthians 6. Look at verse 20. For ye are bought with the price. You say, what's the price? The blood of Jesus. Calvary was the price. It was there the Lord Jesus said, I'll take your sin then. I'll take your load of guilt. I'll pay the penalty that you owe. Talking about Calvary. It was there Jesus said, I'll take your sin and I'll pay for it on the cross. I'll shed my blood and I'll endure the wrath of God on your behalf. That's the price. Had a man say to me one time, he said, I didn't ask him to. I said, isn't that wonderful? That he loved you enough to do it anyway That he cared so much that whether you ask or not, whether you required it or not, he went ahead and died, the Bible says, for the sin of the whole world. You're bought with the price, therefore, therefore, because you've been bought with the price, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. Glorify God in your body and your spirit, which are God's. That means everything about me ought to glorify God. There's a lot of debate today about what people do with and to their bodies. There's a lot of abuse about. Have you ever noticed when a culture gets away from God, they begin to deface the temple? They begin to destroy the thing that's made in the image of God. And they mark it and they scar it and they pierce it and they Ride all over it and they do all these things to it. Here's what I'm saying. Do all to the glory of God. And your body is not your own. If you're saved, he bought that. And your spirit is not your own. He bought that too. We all lock stock and barrel from the top of our head to the bottom of our feet. And listen, what he operates and owns ought to look like he's the one in charge. Do all to the glory of God. Years ago I worked as a service technician. I didn't know that term until I left that job. They just called me the grease monkey. And I was the grease monkey. I like service technician better. And I worked for a construction outfit and I drove a service truck. I had those diamond-plated boxes on the back of the truck and had a thing for oil and hydraulic fluid and antifreeze and grease and then I had one from a toolbox and And uh it was a very nice looking truck. And I noticed that every truck in the fleet looked very nice. They kept them that way Also, notice I hadn't worked there but about a week, and I noticed every evening when the men came in, they washed their trucks. And so I'd been working probably about a week, maybe two, and I came in one evening and I'd been off on a job site, and of course the job sites were just dirt pads usually. And the truck was filthy. And the owner, Mr. Taylor, Ken Taylor, followed me into the shop that evening. I went and put my sh truck in the stall where it was supposed to be I went in, was getting cleaned up and getting my stuff together to go home. And I noticed that Mr. Taylor came into the shop area, and he never did that. He never came to the shop. He always would go up where the offices were. But he went to the shop and he went over to George, who was my supervisor, and he went over there and he was giving him some very stern orders, and then he walked away I thought, I wonder what George did today. I just walked away from the time clock and George's come my way and I thought, I hope what Mr. Taylor said to George has nothing to do with me, because George looks like he's got something on his mind. And uh he said, Grease monkey, listen. Boss followed you in today and he didn't like the way that truck looked. He said to tell you his name is on that truck and he wants it to look like it. You know what I did every evening when I got done? I didn't care. Listen, if I had to do it off the clock, I washed my truck. I took whatever they had provided there and I washed it and made it clean because the owner Wanted what he owned to look like he owned it. Hey, you're bought with a price. You got a name on you. You know what that name is? Jesus Christ. And we ought to operate like that name is engraved on our person. Oh, friend, listen, do all to the glory of God. Let me look at some details or some direction here. The Bible says, whether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all. Now, I'd be out of order if I didn't address the context here and without going into in-depth here, the context is very clear that out of an act of love so as not to make a brother stumble or or or a weak man fall or a lost man despise the Lord, I ought to do all to the glory of God. And if it means not eating, by the way, that meat sold in the market likely was less expensive because it had already served one purpose. Now it was going to serve another purpose. And they're thinking, man, we got a deal. Yeah, but there were some people that were really bothered and tripping over that because they had been saved out of that mentality. And they had to, listen, the Christians had to say, hold on, I'm going to curb that activity if it makes my brother or sister fall. That tells me they weren't so much worried about themselves as they were bringing glory to God and being some good to other people The Bible tells us in verse 32, give none offense, neither to the Jews, nor the Gentiles, nor the church of God. Even as I please all men in all things, not seeking mine own profit, but the profit of many that they may be saved. Paul's not saying, Compromise your convictions, let down your standard. Just go with the flow. He's saying you walk in such a way that you're not purposefully offensive to anyone and keep them from coming to Christ if you can do something that doesn't violate the word of God. Don't be purposefully offensive. I don't know where it got in fashion for Bible believers to be rude. But that's not Bible. And it don't please God. I don't know where it became all of a sudden something that's that's recognizable for God's people. Well, bless God, I just say I just blow them all away. Well Go ahead, hard head, but you're going to hurt a lot of people, and you might cause some people not get saved simply because you're going to do what you want to do. A whole lot of obstinacy is hidden behind a cover of so-called spirituality But notice with me he says here, again in the context, we do why do we do that? Why are we careful about offending a brother? Or why are we careful about cutting the ear off of a lost man so that he can't hear the gospel? We want to bring glory to God. We want to bring glory to his great name. I'm talking about the context here. And he says, that's why he said, whether you eat or drink. You you be careful about those things that that culturally are offensive. I I found out the hard way that I'm allergic to lobster. I don't like it. I didn't like the thought of eating it. I know where they live, what they live on, what they do. They're kind of a cousin to a crab, you know. I know. That greed the spirit right there, all you Marylanders. But this this gentleman we were visiting and it was such a strange thing. He he said, Come in, we knocked on the door, didn't know who we were or what we were doing. I actually was with Brother Bell And he said, come in. And we began to talk to him about the Lord. And he insisted that we eat this thing. He had fixed some lobster there. And uh I didn't know they would make you sick or make me sick. And so, and I sure didn't like the idea of eating the thing, but anyway, I thought, well, I'd rather not be offensive to the man, so I'll just eat it. And I uh I mean after two bites, uh I start getting sick, the swelling, you know, all the stuff that goes on with that guy. Oh gee. And uh I pulled brother brother Bell, he's just talking 900 miles a minute, and I pulled his shirt and I said, I gotta go. He said, Well go. I said, okay, I'm gonna go And I left him in there and I went and got in the car and boy, I'll tell you, I I have not been that sick. And and honestly, if someone offered me lobster again, I'd say with I would love to eat it. But it'll kill me. And I'd rather live. Thank you for being so gracious and kind. You know But here's what he's saying. Here were things that were questionable. He said, you sit down at meet, somebody says, that was offered to idols. And you know they're doing that because they want to see if you're leaded or not. Because they're kind of on the on the border with that thing and and he says, you don't eat that. You don't want to offend their conscience They may be a weaker brother. You say, how can a man, you know that language of of uh of Cain who killed his brother Abel? Am I my brother's keeper? Yes, you are. Yes, you are. And you and I have to curtail some of our liberties for the good of others. And why do we do that? We do that to bring glory to God. We don't do it for just them. We do it to bring glory to him. Why? Because we want to be so transparent that people can look through us. And see the perfection and the beauty and the majesty and the wonder and the love of the Lord God in heaven who saved us by his grace. So we see the context, we see a culmination. Paul brings it all together and he says, whatsoever. Now, folks, this right here doesn't allow you or me to compartmentalize our lives. You know, there are a lot of things that people will do other days that they won't do on the Lord's day. And I just throw something in here. If it's sin on the Lord's Day, it's sin every other day. My dad's in heaven. I believe he'd tell this story if he was here. My dad battled smoking. He knew it was killing him. He knew it was hurting his body. He wouldn't lay those things down. I remember as a little boy, him taking those out of his pocket, putting them in the glove box before we went in church. I'd look at that. I'd look at him. We'd go to church, we'd come out, we'd get off the church property. He'd pull them out. He did that for years. I remember asking one time, I said, Dad, why do you do that? He said, That's the Lord's house. And this is the Lord's day. Those things don't belong in there. I'll never forget. Sometimes these women are good preachers. My mother said it's not too good on other days of the week either, is it? And then the fight started. But the reality is we come partner wise. It's okay for my language to be loose on Monday because I'm not in church. It's okay for me to act like this out here in the world because I'm not around other Christians. It's okay. You know what I'm doing? I'm justifying My disobedience, and listen, there's nowhere in the Bible I can compartmentalize my life. It's whatsoever, whatever you do, whatever day it is, whatever activity it is, whatever speech it is, whatever we may do, do all to the glory of God. Look at this command. It gets bigger. He says, Do all. Church, that that baffles me. I'll tell you what it does. It helps me understand I need the power of God to do it. Christianity, rightly understood, requires divine enablement. If your Christianity doesn't require God, you don't have the Bible kind. Bible Christianity says, God, you've got to help me because I can't do it without you. How does a person do all to the glory of God? How does a man or a woman, how does an individual go to their job and do all to the glory of God? How does an individual go to school and do all to the glory of God? How does one speak and how does one live so as to do all to the glory of God? I'll tell you how. You get on your knees and say, Oh God, I'm a weak vessel. And I'm prone to sin, and my heart is needing of the power and the help of God. Lord, would you help me to do all to the glory of God? It requires his power. Can I say this? When you do all of the glory of God, it's then you live. It's then you begin to live. Now let me wind it up here and just remind you of a decision. Because all of God's commands lead us to this point. This decision first is personal. Nobody else can determine to live to the glory of God for you but you. Just you. It doesn't matter what everybody else, well, so-and-so they're a Christian and they do this and thus and that. Don't worry about them. Don't worry about them. You know, I love how Jesus addressed Peter when Jesus was telling him after the resurrection and at the appearance there on the sea or the seashore when he fed them. And the Lord's telling Peter about all that he's going to face and how he's going to die and what's going to come. And Peter says, What about this man? And in a very polite way, can I say it like this? The Lord just simply told him, mind your own business. If he tarry till I come, what's that to you? Other words, a and then of course men take that and they run with it and a and you know it was rumored that John would live till Jesus comes. That wasn't what Jesus said. Jesus said, Peter, You don't worry about John. Whatever I do with John, I'll do with John. I'm dealing with you right now. And I'm saying that when it comes to doing all to the glory of God, I've got to divorce from everyone and everything around me and determine by God's good grace I will do all to the glory of God. Notice he uses that command, ye, therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God. That's you, individual. It's a personal decision. It's also very practical. I'll tell you how practical it is. It'll affect everything in your life. It'll reflect it 'll affect every responsibility, every relationship. You think about it, if I do everything I do to the glory of God, what would change? What would change? Would you continue to go the places you go? Would you use the language that you use? Would you have the attitude maybe that you had? Would you Go about the manner of life that you're living? Would you carry on in that if you said, I'm going to do this to the glory of God? It's very practical. And can I say this? It's also purposeful. God has a purpose in it. By the way, how many of you know the longer you're saved, The purposes of God are are like the layers of an onion. You keep peeling them and you find more and more and more. You find reasons behind why God says what he says. They're purposeful. Jesus said, I am come that they might have life and that more abundantly. Listen to me. If you do all of the glory of God, you'll see something about abundant life. The devil's a liar. That needs to go on record. The devil's a liar, and he's the father of it. Friend, he'll tell you, if you live God's way, your life will lack joy. Not so. Not so. Hey, that same place I was telling you about where I was a grease monkey. Those guys had come in on Monday Awfulest looking bunch you ever seen. Heads hurting. Look like somebody some of them were beat up over the weekend And they would stand there, we'd all have to be there early and we'd be waiting to clock in. And we'd stand there and they'd be talking, man, we had a time, we had a time, and I'd be standing , I'm thinking of one, I won't call his name, I was standing by it. I said, What'd you do? Don't remember Said you don't remember. No, I don't. Boy, we had a time. Or he'd say, he'd say to me, he'd say, Now, Grease Monkey, don't talk so loud. Man, I got a headache I loved it when it rained on Mondays 'cause we all had to stay in the shop. And those boys walking around holding their head, everybody whispering quite and I'd find me a big old three quarter inch drive something and just ream on something loud Just help them out, you know. They would say, What'd you do? Me and my brother-in-law worked together at that time. And uh we said we went to church. We were over at the nursing home, had a nursing home ministry. It was on the bus route and picked up children. We went here or there. We were talking about doing the things of the Lord. It's like, man. You guys aren't living. I thought, you guys are? You broke? You sick? You beat up? Boy, you had a big time. That's the lie of the devil. You live like you want to live, and it leads to ruin. He does nothing but kill, steal, and destroy. That's all he does. And he'll do that in your life, and he'll do that in my life if I let him. But when you do all to the glory of God, there are repercussions and there are reapings that come your way that go beyond what you can understand. Somebody said this. I'll just say this so I close. Somebody said, you know, there's a lot of unusually older people that I know who are Christians. They're up in years and they're still going. They're in their 80s and in their 90s and they're still going. They're still serving the Lord. You know what that's a reflection of? They've chosen to honor the Lord with their bodies. And they've not beat 'em down with uh wicked living and broken down. That doesn't mean that somebody who's living right won't get sick and have problems. That's not what I'm saying. But a lot of things we bring in our lives, we do so, violating God's precious word. Do all to the glory of God. Do all to the glory of God. Let me ask you something. Have you ever purposed, brother, sister in Christ, have you ever purposed in your heart to do all to God's glory? Have you ever got concerned enough about it to say, Lord, on bended knee, help me? Lord, I want to go to work tomorrow and I want to work to the glory of God. You'll be a better employee. I want to go to a school tomorrow and do all of the glory of God. You'll be a better student. I I want to be a husband who does all the glory of God. You'll be a better husband. I want to do all of the glory of God as a wife. You'll be a better wife. I want to do all of the glory of God as I live. You'll be a whole lot better citizen in your community and point men and women. Listen, the whole purpose of this is not to say, look at me, the whole purpose is to look at him. Look at what he's done. Look at who he is. Look at how wonderful the Lord is. That's the purpose of doing all of the glory of God on this first Lord's day of the new year. It might be good for some to say, God, by your help, I want to do all to the glory of God. Whether it's get up and go to work in the morning or come back here on Sunday evening and go to the house of God, I want to do everything I do so you'll get the glory for it. So that people will see how good you are, how great you are, how perfect you are. It's not about drawing attention to self, it's about drawing attention to the Savior. Look how good he is Now, friend, if you're not saved, you'll never be able to do that. If you're not a Christian, you may purpose that, but you can't perform that. Because you're not a pane of glass through whom one can see. There's something blocking the view. It's called sin. And your sin 's got to be rectified. Your sin has got to be removed. And I want to tell you there's good news this morning. There's a fountain filled with blood. Drawn from Emmanuel's veins, and sinners plunge beneath that flood, lose all their guilty sings. You talk about a cleansing, there's a cleansing fountain Opened up on Calvary's Hill, and every sinner who comes to the Lord Jesus Christ finds cleanness in him, forgiveness of sin, and a change in their lives. And then you can bring glory to God. If you're not saved, you need to be, and you can be. And dear believer, may we search our hearts We're standing at the really the opening of the gate of a new year. Only God knows what it holds. But whatever it holds through whatever we go and face and whatever comes. May we purpose. God, I want to do all. I want to do all to the glory of God. Word or deed, whatever it may be, Lord, I want you to get the glory. I want you to get the credit. Would you stand with me please and let's have a hymn of invitation? Christian