Grateful for mercy. And I hope that you have a a moment in your life when God's mercy intervened. made the difference. I want you to open your Bibles once again, please, to Titus chapter number 2. And I'm going to read verses 11 to 15. Titus chapter number two, beginning in verse number 11. I'll invite you to stand with me if you would, please, and we'll honor the reading of God's Word. We've been trying in these days to understand grace. And we're going to look once more at the subject, and I want you to see what the Bible has to say here in Titus chapter number two. Verse number 11, the Bible says, for the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men. Teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people zealous of good works. These things speak and exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee. If we know anything about grace , We know that grace will change your life. It's not an exception to the rule, it is the rule. Where grace comes in, our lives are transformed. And I want you to see that truth here from the text. Father, help us, please. We certainly need thee, and we ask that you would undertake. I pray you'd meet the great need of every heart, save the lost, reclaim the backslider, stir the dear believer, strengthen us, Lord, in our faith, and help us, Lord, to see the truth. And for what you do, we'll give you the glory, for we look to you now in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. The Bible is a great balancer of men. One of the problems we have as being fallen creatures is that we tend to find the ditches on both sides of the road. The truth is, there are ditches on both sides of the road of truth. The Bible says in John chapter 1 that the law was given by Moses. But grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. Now, if we go heavy on grace at the expense of truth We weaken the message of the gospel. We forget there are certain things that are included in the gospel. uh that are different, not contrary, but complementing this thing of grace But if we take truth and we forget completely about grace, then we become hard and and and literally kill with the letter of the law rather than give life But you'll notice that Jesus is the perfect combination of both. He's full of grace and he's full of truth. And the two balance, if you will, one another. We've been talking a lot about the grace of God in these days because I believe it's a subject that we need to understand. But I I feel like I would be amiss if I did not preach what the Bible says about the grace of God and the fact that the grace of God, yes God will take you like you are. In fact, there's no other way for you to be taken. There's no other way for you to come to the Lord You say, but preacher, I've got some patching up and fixing up, and I've got news for you. You'll work on that the rest of your life and die and end up in hell because you'll never fix yourself enough to come to Christ. The Bible says to come. I love the hymn that teaches us that invitation hymn. We're just to come as just as I am without one plea. O Lamb of God, I come. That's the only way to come. But let me inform you from the Word of God that you can come as you are, but He'll not leave you like He found you. He will change your life. There is a cheap grace, I believe, that is heralded oftentimes across this land that says Well, God will just take you and just leave you like you are, and you don't have to worry about being changed. I've got news for you. Jesus will change your life. He will take you like you are, but he will not leave you like he found you. The Apostle Paul is a great example of that. He's on the road to Damascus. He's going there to kill Christians. And the Lord appears to him, and you'll find Paul asking two questions, or Saul at that point, he says, Who art thou and what wilt thou have me to do? And I believe there on that road to Damascus is where he got saved. Now imagine the apostle or Saul at this time, imagine him after getting saved, going right back to the same old business, killing Christians. Would that not be a travesty? Would that not be very contradictory to what the Lord says he'll do in a man's life? The Bible says, O taste and see that the Lord is good. Now, when the Lord when you begin to see who the Lord is and what the Lord does, and He saves you by His grace, Just by nature of what grace is, your life will be changed. It'll be different. It is the testimony of Scripture that saved people are changed. Saved people are transformed people. It is not that we work for salvation, but we work from salvation, because salvation will radically change your life. I do not believe in a salvation that leaves you just like it found you. I don't believe the Bible teaches that kind of salvation. You can study it from cover to cover. And I don't see one drowning man rescued still drowning. He's lifted. Even in the Old Testament, the Bible teaches us That he he dug us up out of a horrible pit and set our feet on a solid rock. He did not leave us down there where he found us Grace will transform your life. That's what we read. That's what Titus is emphasizing here in this second chapter. I am grateful to tell you this morning that you can come as a guilty, helpless, broken , devastated sinner to the Lord Jesus, and he'll take you just like that. He'll take you, and by the way, he can't take you any other way. I heard a man this week preaching on two dogs and one king. And that's in the Bible, by the way. Now there's some preaching that's just not in the Bible, but this actually was in the Bible. There are two dogs in one king. That king was David. But there were two men who called themselves or who spoke of being dogs that came and dealt with David and both had different attitudes and both had different outcomes. The first was Was Goliath. And when David came and faced Goliath, Goliath said, Am I a dog? He said it with disdain. He said it with disgust. You're coming at me like I'm a dog. And because of his disdain of David, David ended his life. There was another man who came to King David. You remember his name, Mephiboth Shef? And you know what he said when he came into the presence of the king? He said, I'm but a dead dog. What is it that you want to do with me? Why would you show such grace to me? And you know what? Goliath died at the hands of David, but Mephibosheth dined at the table of David. Because he came with a whole different attitude. Now, folks, the truth is in the sight of the Lord, I mean we're all dead sinners in the eyes of the Lord. Now, I I'm not calling you names, I'm just telling you what the Bible says. The Bible says that all had sinned and come short of the glory of God. Every man, every woman, every boy, every girl, every teenager, young adult It doesn't matter your age, your background, or whatever. Every individual under the sound of my voice, friends, you are condemned in sin by your nature and by your birth, by your choices. Everything in your in your person screams, I am a sinner. But yet when I come to the Lord Jesus Christ, and acknowledge my sin and my need for the Savior, the work of grace begins in my heart, which is a work of God, and God changes me from the inside out, and I'm no longer what I once was. There is no gospel that leaves you loving sin and loving the Savior. You can't do both. Now that does not mean we become sinless, but I'll tell you what, a man get right with God and walk with him, he will sin less. And so Timothy or Titus here we read in chapter two is told by Paul some things about the grace of God and its power to transform our lives. I want you to notice, number one, the appearance of grace in verse 11. The Bible says, for the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men. When did the grace of God appear? I want you to notice that the grace of God appears as it first brings salvation. The Bible tells us in Ephesians 2, 8, and 9, for by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. It's not of works, lest any man should boast. Grace brings salvation. You say, when did grace appear? Well, if you're saved, it appeared the moment you got saved. That was the appearance of grace in your life. He further states that here in chapter 3. Look down in chapter 3, beginning in verse number 3. He says, For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived Serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful and hating one another. You know what that is? That's BC. That's before Christ. That's what a person is before Christ. But look at verse 4. But after the kindness and love of God, our Savior, toward man appeared, Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. By the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Ghost, which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior. that being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. I wish we had time this morning, but you look at words like regeneration and renewing And all of that says one thing: change. Transformation. Boy, when the Lord saves someone, he'll change them. He'll change them. Everything changes. And our lives begin to reflect the reality that grace has stepped in. See, I think the devil wants us to believe that there's such a thing as a salvation that's invisible. I don't believe there is. Now, what God does is invisible. I mean, when He washed my dirty heart clean, I I didn't see that physically. And when he wrote my name in the Lamb's Book of Life, I didn't see that. When he justified me in the eyes of God and and declared me righteous. And I I I didn't see all of that taking place in that spiritual realm. But all of that happened. There's a measure that is invisible But I've got news for you. It will not remain invisible because it will become apparent that grace has stepped in. Grace will change you and make you something that you could not be apart from it. Someone said, Well, I I I'm saved. I I know I I'm saved, but I I still just love sin real good. You need to go back to the cross. You need to go back to Calvary. You need to get born again. You need to meet the Lord. You might have prayed a prayer, and you might have joined a church, and you might have gotten the waters of baptism. But the new my my friend, listen, the Lord will change you. He changes your heart, he changes your desire. He changed listen, if he's big enough to change my eternity, he's surely going to affect my time. Here on this earth. He'll change you. And so grace appears at the moment of salvation. If you are saved, grace appeared in your life at that moment. The grace of God that bringeth salvation. But not only do I see it bringing salvation, but I see the blessing that is bestowed because it says to all men. Now this isn't declaring that all men are saved. It's simply telling me that all men can be. It's peer to all men. The message of the gospel has been set forth, and the person of Jesus Christ has been laid before the mass of humanity. And this salvation is available. Now, I know not all men will be saved, but all men can be saved if they'll come to Christ. There's hope for the sinner. I want you to see again this appearance of grace and ask you the question, when did grace appear? In your life. Old John Newton, I was just thinking of this hymn, and you know the very well-known hymn, Amazing Grace. Now I imagine, if you've never read his story, you should. Newton was a very vile man, a very wicked man. He was a schemer, and he got caught up in slave trafficking and And uh would work on a ship and oft and afterwards even captain a ship. Now imagine imagine him declaring grace had saved him and him still going about that wicked business. Would that mean anything? Do you know some lost people got more sense than some saved people? Do you know lost people expect you to be different? I don't know if you've got a hold of that yet or not, but lost people expect Christians to act like it. Yes, they do. If you don't believe me, you go to work tomorrow and mess up, and the first thing they'll say, I thought you were a Christian. You know why? Because they expect you to be different. Now listen, not only do they expect you to be different, but the Bible declares you will be different if you truly get born again. John Newton said this in his great hymn, 'twas grace that taught my heart to fear. And grace my fears relieved. How precious did that grace appear the hour I first believed? It was at that moment he first believed that the grace of God appeared, and the grace of God began to change him and make him a new man. I want you to note not only the appearance of grace, but quickly look at the advancement of grace. That's found in verse 12. Notice what the Bible says, teaching us. That's what grace does. Grace will teach you something. Teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust. We should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Here's where the change begins. Now look, I want to say this and be very clear. I don't change to be saved. I change because I am saved. I've got a new heart. When you get saved, you get a new heart, a new nature, you become a new person, you become a new creation. The Lord begins to do things in your heart and listen what you could not do before now you do simply because you've been changed Here's evidence. You might read your Bible before you get saved. And it doesn't make a bit of sense. How many of you had that experience when you got saved? You read your Bible and you thought, wow, I got smart quick. Did the Bible make a difference? I mean, did it make sense all of a sudden? All of a sudden you could understand and you could see And things became clear to you that you could not see before. Why? Not because you suddenly got a new brain. The reality is you got a new nature. You got born again. And now that spiritual man can discern spiritual things and can understand the teaching of God. And listen, it's evidence that you've been born again. There are things that did not bother you before you got saved. I mean you could curse and drink and Act a fool and do all those things, and it didn't bother you at all. But isn't it funny? After you get saved, the things that did not bother you suddenly trouble you? And the more God works on you, the more things trouble you in a way, and you realize I'm not what I used to be. I can't get by with it. Let me be clear here this morning, my dear friend. If you can get by with sin and it don't bother you, you need to be bothered over the reality of the salvation you claim to have. Because listen, grace will change you. It'll make you hate what you once loved and love what you once hated. It'll make you brand new. And you don't have to sit in a class and go through twelve steps or whatever and find out this is what I need to do. You've got a teacher, the Bible says, on the inside who teaches you and says, hey, this it and right. It it's it's the Spirit of God who lives inside of you. I remember my pastor coming in as a little boy to my Sunday school class and he said, I wanna I want to teach you fellas something. He said, you know, when you get saved, there's joy that comes on the inside. He said it's like a little bird just singing its heart out. But he said, you do something wrong and you offend God and you grieve the Holy Spirit, he said, that little bird will quit singing. That joy will be gone. And he said, when that joy is gone, you need to ask why and what, and you need to get back to where you can get that joy back. And then he taught us the lesson of 1 John 1. 9. If we confess our sin, he is faithful and just to forgive our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Now folks, you don't have that if you're not saved. If you're not saved, sin don't bother you. If you're not saved, I mean You can do whatever you want to do, and there's no inner witness, no inner conviction, no inside quickening. You don't need the preacher to follow you around and say, eh, don't do that. You understand that word, don't you? Real technical word, I know. But I can still hear both my mother and father making that sound. And I knew it it meant stop whatever it is you're doing. And the Holy Spirit will do that. The Holy Spirit inside of you. He'll put his hand. He'll say, oh, no. The Spirit of God will restrain. The Spirit of God will convict. The Spirit of God will do those things inside of your heart. Friend, if you don't have that inner witness, You need to go back to the cross of Calvary and and realize that you must be born again, that you can't make yourself a Christian any any more than you make yourself some other species, but Jesus Christ can save you and the grace of God can make you what you cannot be apart from Him. Thank God for saving grace. But it it begins to advance, if you'll let me say it that way. It begins, here's the word teaching, teaching us. The word here means to not only educate, but to enable. It's a very powerful word because Not only does it give you instruction, it gives you unction. It gives you the ability. It gives you the equipment. It allows you to be able to do the things that it says. There's two portions of this or two aspects. One is in denying, and the other is in doing. Notice it says first, teaching us. That denying ungodliness and worldly lust. In other words, grace goes on the attack Against all that is contrary to the Lord. It goes on the attack. Grace, when grace gets in your soul, when grace saves you. It begins to work on you, and it begins to attack those things that are against God and against righteousness, and it begins to root those things out of your life. Did you ever notice when you got saved, even God would deal with your attitude? I mean, you weren't doing anything outwardly wrong, but you had a bad attitude. I used to work helping put roofs on barns. We'd build pole barns, and mostly our job was to come in and put metal roofs on them. And I was helping a fella finish closing up the end of this barn. It was 45, 46, something like that, feet to the top He was up on a ladder, and uh he was sending back a piece that I was cutting. And I mean I was cutting millimeters off at this point. And he'd send it back and say, I want it to fit better. And it was at that time, I believe it was minus 17. I'll never forget it. It was cold and I wanted to be done with this job. It was late in the evening. And boy, I got bad in my spirit. I'm like, it's 40-some feet up there. Nobody's going to see a millimeter. What are you worried about? And then somebody had told me this old foolish saying and and and it stuck in my head and you know, it it's a barn, we're not building a piano And I I sort of smart mouthed that back to him and he's like he just kind of smiled now. You need to know he's a brother in the Lord and a member of the church I pastored. And I'm getting ill in my spirit. He sent it back five times, maybe six. And one of the times when it came back down, he said, Cut another one. I don't like the way you cut that. And boy, it just kept going on and on and on. And boy, finally, when I got that last cut and made it right and sent it up to him. He tacked it in without so much as a thank you. And that really sent me over the edge. I didn't say it and I didn't show it. But my spirit was wrong. We finished up and he said, come on in, we're going to eat a little supper before you leave. And his wife had fixed something. We went in there and was getting warm and sat down to eat and he said, now preacher, I want you to pray and ask the blessing on the food I thought, I can't pray, I'm not right with God. I mean, I know I could pray something I'd always prayed, but boy, I was really troubled about that. And I bowed my head and I started to pray and I couldn't pray And I looked up after a few moments and I called him by name and I said, I want you to forgive me And he looked at me so puzzled, he said, What are you talking about? I said, Brother, I've got a bad spirit about that whole ordeal just a minute ago. He said, What are you talking about? He was oblivious. But I wasn't, and the Holy Ghost wasn't. And there was going to be no peace. Till I made that thing right. I'm gonna tell you something. An unsaved man don't have that struggle. A man who don't have the Holy Ghost in him Will not listen, he will not battle those sort of things. You know why? Because he's dead in his trespasses and sin. New life says, hey, you're a new creature, and new creatures deny ungodliness and worldly lust. So there's the denying and then there's the doing. Look what it says. It says, and live soberly. Righteously, godly in this present world. Oh, listen, oftentimes we get hung up on the denying and we forget the doing. There's a negative aspect, but there's also a positive. These are the things we're to do. These are the things we engage in. What is it? We live soberly. And I don't believe that's referring to alcohol, although there's a whole lot of other scripture that says a Christian ought to leave that mess alone. But he's talking about living serious or spiritually minded, soberly. And then he talks about being righteously and godly, living in a way that is pleasing unto the Lord. With an urgency. Notice he says, in this present world. Now look, all of this is what the grace of God will teach you. If grace makes an appearance in your life in salvation, It will continue by transformation as you grow in the grace and knowledge of the Lord, and it'll change your life. Now look, you don't become a mature Christian overnight. I think a lot of times we don't have near much mercy on young Christians because we forget that it takes time to become a mature Christian. How many of you are seventy plus? Would you raise your hand? You didn't get that way overnight. Thank God. Amen. I mean it su doesn't it feel like it some days? You turn around, where did fifty years go? Where'd sixty, you know? Well how how did all that happen so quick? But the reality is day by day, moment by moment. And so the truth of the matter is I'm trying to emphasize here is that listen you don't become a mature Christian overnight, but listen, you do become a Christian in a moment of time. You're made a new creature immediately. And there are a lot of things that begin to fall off. Now, I hate to be crude, but listen, fleas don't live on dead dogs. They jump ship. They gotta have something alive. And listen, my friend, when you get saved, there's some things that will jump ship because you're not what you once were. Your life begins to change. You begin deny. You begin doing. And all of this is the advancement of grace. I love the song I'm Pressing On the Upward Way. New heights I'm gaining every day. The grace of God always leads me upward and onward, away from the mire and away from the clay and away from the flesh and away from sin. And if I'm following God, my life direction is going to pattern in that way. There's the advancement of grace. But here's the beauty of that thing, it don't stop there. There's an awareness of grace. Look at it with me in verse 13. Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. Do you know what grace does? It sets you to looking. It sets you to looking. What are you looking for? This is anticipation. I'm anticipating something. I'm anticipating. I'm looking for. I didn't need a message on the rapture to know that the Lord's coming. Because when the Holy Ghost saves and and comes inside of you. He births in you an anticipation. Hey, the Lord's coming. You start looking and then the next word is Is that thing of appearing? We're looking for the blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and King. Listen, we're looking for Jesus to come. We're looking for Jesus to come. There's not only an anticipation, but the appearing. Grace set my heart. When I got saved, Grace set my heart to longing and looking for the Lord. It began to birth in me. I believe a picture of that is found back in the Old Testament. When Abraham sent Eliezer out to find a bride for Isaac And he told him where to go and where to find her, and uh God directed him along the way, and he found Rebecca, and he brought her back. But do you remember their conversation on the way back? The Bible alludes to it in several places that they talked about Isaac. And they talked about, and listen, the uh Eliezer had brought with him several camels. My preacher used to preach a message on the camels of grace. I think what were there, twelve camels, and he used to try to unload them. He never got them all unloaded in one service. It just got too deep and rich around there. But he brought that treasure with him, and that treasure was of things to come. That treasure said, look, this is just a little of what Isaac has There's a whole lot more back where he's at. And so Eliezer all the way home talked about the beauty or the glory or the splendor of Isaac. And when when they got back to where Isaac lived , You remember what Rebekah did? She saw him out in the field. And here's what I marvel at. There was no introduction. Eliezer didn't have to go up and say, now let me introduce you. This is Isaac. You you you might not be aware of this, but this is Isaac. No, she knew who Isaac was. She had been hearing about him all the way home. I'm going to tell you, when I get to heaven and you get to heaven, you're not going to need an introduction to the Lord Jesus. You're going to know who he is. You know why? The Holy Ghost has been telling you about him all the way home. And all the way home. And we've been told about the beauty, the splendor, the glory, the majesty. of the Lord Jesus Christ. And one of these days we're going to see him. And if you're saved, the Holy Ghost put a desire in your heart to see the Lord, to look for the Lord. You're anticipating the Lord. Now I know there's a lot of stuff coming. I know there's a lot of stuff coming to this earth, but I'm not near as worried about that as I am about the Lord I'm not looking, and you'll be hard-pressed. You'll be hard-pressed. We're not looking for Antichrist. If you are, you got your eyes in the wrong place. I'm not looking for him. My Bible says I'm not going to be here when he's revealed. And that man of sin, when he's unveiled and he's set before the people, God's little children are already going to be in glory with the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm not looking. I'm not even worried about who he is. If he's alive on this earth, you say, preacher, that's wrong. No, my friend, listen, I'm looking for the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. That's who we're looking for. The Antichrist holds nothing for me. He has no power, nothing to over me But old King Jesus does, he won my heart many years ago, and I'm looking for that. I'm longing for that. And one of these days God's going to let me see what my heart's long for, and I'll be with the Lord just as you will if you're saved by grace. There's this awareness of grace. Grace sets the heart looking for home. Aren't we strange people? We you probably don't may not appreciate that, but we are. We we call a place home we've never been. Oh, we know a lot about it. Forgive me, but this this illustration just came to my mind. But you know, spiritual people watch Andy Griffith. And uh there's an episode where a boy didn't have a hometown And some of you might remember that. He comes to Mayberry and he knows everything about it and everybody else, and he scares them to death because he had never been there before. And all of a sudden there he is. And he knows he knows people's names, he knows what they did, he knows everything about them. And and you know, they start thinking Barney thinks he's a spy from a foreign country, you know, he goes off a deep end like he always do. And they're all upset. And then they find out. He just had studied. He'd read something. Uh he'd got the newspaper and he'd read all about that town and And he read about all those people, and he knew everything there was to know because he wanted that to be his hometown. And that was strange to them But I'm telling you, I this this is more in a T V program. This is the truth of the Holy Bible. Heaven's my home I've been reading about it and studying about it. The Holy Ghost has been telling me about it, putting a longing in my heart for it, and one of these days I'm going to see it, and it won't be a strange place to me. It'll just simply be home because God put it in my heart by grace when He saved me and put that awareness in me of what's to come. Number four, I want you to notice the attainment of grace. That's found in verse 14. The Bible says, who gave himself for us that he might redeem us. From all iniquity and purifying to himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works. See, God had a purpose in saving you. And let me quickly say this: it was not just to keep you out of hell. There's a purpose. Oh, thank God for that I'm grateful that hell does not await me, for I'm saved by the grace of God. But the purpose of salvation is just not to avoid hell. The reality is God had purposes in mind when he saved us. And verse 14 says, so that he might redeem us from all iniquity. That's his purpose. He bought you to free you. He bought you to break the chain and power of sin over your life. He bought you to make you a new person. See, sometimes we get content with something that Really is small in light of other things. Well, I'm just glad I'm not going to hell. Listen, I'm glad I'm not going to hell either. But I'm glad that wasn't God's only interest in saving me. His interest in saving me was to purify me. And listen, to redeem me from all iniquity. He's come not only to set me free from from the penalty of sin, but sin's power that that has has such a hold. And listen, my friend, if you're saved by the grace of God, you don't sin because you have to, you sin because you want to. Now that sticks my heart like it does yours. Because he has broken. Now look, an unsaved man's going to do what an unsaved man does. He can't do any different. I don't care how hard he tries, he is gonna be what he is. Look, you take a pig and you wash it and put perfume on it, paint its toenails and put a bow in its ear and and turn it out, and you know what it's gonna do? It's gonna find mud and walla because it's a pig. It's just doing what it's what it's what it does. And lost people just do what lost people do. But listen to me, say people have another principle, have another power, have another person living on side inside of them. And that man is victorious. That man has power to say no to sin. That man has the ability to resist evil and listen to do what's right. Why? Because it's God living in him. We see the attainment of grace, that God would have purposes, and then we see the purifying of this thing. Notice he said that he might purify unto himself a peculiar people zealous of good works. Do you know what he's coming after? The Bible says he's looking for a bride without spot or wrinkle. You know one thing about brides is that they really get done up for the wedding. All right. I was just thinking last night. I couldn't sleep for a while, and I was just thinking, and I was thinking about our wedding day, which is today, 32 years ago. And uh I remember standing there with my preacher, and the doors, we had four doors across the back of the sanctuary. And he'd already been aggravating me real bad in the back and he had somebody put a ladder up to the second story window where we met and had the window open when I got there and he said, Son, you got one more chance. He said, you can go down that ladder, I'll go out there and tell them you got cold feet and it'll all be done. One more chance. He said, once we leave this room, it's done, boy. And he had been aggravating me. He told me about somebody passing out in a wedding. He said, now don't lock your knees. And I mean he had me tore up. I didn't know what was up or down. And then we all standing up there, and I'm standing by Brother Ralph, and that door opens, and Miss Elizabeth steps out. And I know my jaw must have hit the floor. I'd never seen anything so pretty in my life. And it really affected me because when she got down front and I was supposed to go down and escort her up, the preacher had to hit me in the ribs. He said, Go get your bride, boy. Don't stand there looking, you know. It was a real formal outfit, I'm telling you. And I made my way down. I tell you, I listen, I was just she didn't look real. It was she was so pretty and so beautiful. It just blew me away. The Lord's not coming for a dirty bride. He's purifying unto himself. And I'll tell you what God's doing. He's working in you and me to clean us up He's cleaning us up. Don't tell me one moment that you know Christ and you're content being in the filth of this world. Now you may get there like Lot did, but the Bible says it vexed his soul. It troubled his old heart. He had no moment of peace. He had no joy. You know why? Because he was a new man and he could not enjoy what he once did because of what God had done. And the same's true of you and me who are saved. God's grace will purify us and transform our hearts and lives. He will make us delightfully different. As grace does its work. Now, beloved , these goals will be achieved. One way or the other, he's going to get the job done. And I believe some Christians go home early because they refuse to let God clean them up. And God just takes care of it in one swoop. That's the Bible. And I'm just saying this morning that God has purposes, the attainment of grace. Now let me close with this, the authority of grace in verse 15. These things speak, exhort, and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee. Notice the exercise here of speaking and of exhorting and rebuking. That's the call of the preacher, but it's also a responsibility of the Christian to remind people that the grace of God will change your life. How many people are trusting in a cheap grace who are gonna die and go to hell? Now look, when you get saved, he makes a difference. He makes you different 2 Corinthians 5, 17. The Bible says, therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. New creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. Some of you sitting here, I could call you by name, were church members before you were members of the family of God. You sat on a pew, you went to church, carried a Bible, sung hymns, and did all the things Christians are supposed to do, but you did not have Christ. And then you met the Lord. And you became new. You got a new nature. All that you once were passed away. And listen, all things became new, began to work and make a difference in your life. I'm saying this morning, the only grace, the only true grace of God is a transforming grace. Grace that does not transform is not true grace, but grace that changes your life is the true grace of God And we're taught by the Word of God and the Spirit of God that when He takes us, He takes us just like we are. You can't come any other way. But rest assured, He ain't gonna leave you like that. He's gonna change your life and make you brand new. And the reality of it is it's a lifelong process. He's still working on all of us. Everybody who's saved here this morning, God's working on something. He's working on something. It may not all be the same, but he's working in the same fashion. He's taking everything out that's not like him, and he's putting everything in that is. A very well-known sculptor was was carving this thing and as it began to appear what it was, it was a person and it was someone very well known. And someone said to the sculptor, how do you do that? How how do you take just a a block of uh of just nothing and then all of a sudden make something so lifelike. And here's what they said, I just cut away everything that don't look like what it is I want it to look like. Now, whether you're 10 or 100, the Holy Ghost in you, if you're saved, He's cutting out everything that don't look like Jesus. Every attitude, every word, every habit, every desire, you know what he's doing in your life? He's cutting that thing out because it's not like Jesus. What's his goal? His goal is not to make you like the man on the pew next to you or somebody other religious individual. He's making you like his son. And thank God one day the job will be done. Because the Bible says when we see him we shall be like him. And thank God we have that blessed hope burning in our hearts by the grace of God. Now, my friend, let me urge you here this morning, if you're not saved, if you've never been changed, if God's never transformed your life, You need to find a place to cry out to God for mercy and get born again from above and let grace change your life and make you what you can't be just on your own. If you're here today saved, and maybe you're going through a rough patch and you say, what in the world's happening in my life? Well, one thing I know is happening, he's taken everything out of us. It's not like him. And sometimes he pulls out a hammer and a chisel, and sometimes a coarse old piece of sandpaper, and he starts to rub and it hurts, and yet it's for our good because he's cutting something out that's just not like Jesus. Maybe you're saying, now preacher, boy, I've got a I've got a desire. I I'm saved. I believe I'm saved. I've got a desire to be in heaven to see the Lord, but Boy, this old world's got my attention and attracted me and allured me. Boy, today's the day to have a breakup. And just break up with all that stuff that's been calling for your affection and Surrender yourself afresh and say, Oh Lord, have your way and renew and restore and revive me. And boy, He'll do that in your heart. He'll do that for you. Because His goal, His desire. is to make you like Christ. And when you get saved, grace goes to work. What's grace doing in your life this morning? Could we stand together, please, as we prepare for the hymn? Father, we're asking you just now to serve us