Is Jesus Christ? You say, preacher, what question are you talking about? Don't matter, he's the answer. Whatever the question may be, the Lord Jesus is the answer. And my friend, I don't know what it is you're looking for today or what you sense you may need or think you may need, but if you don't have him, that's where it all begins. You need the Lord Jesus. The Bible says he loved you and He gave Himself for you, that He might wash you from your sin in His own blood. And what a thrill it is to have such a full and free pardon offered through the Lord Jesus Christ. And because of that, we must worship Him. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to Psalm 95, and I want you to think with me for a few minutes on a call to true worship. A call to true worship. They tell me that in 2022 they did a survey of how many Americans are in church on Sunday morning and about 20% of our population on any given Sunday We'll be in church. There's about 331 million people in our country. So that would be about 66 million, 66. 2 something million people in church on the average Sunday across this country. Now you say that sounds like an impressive number. Well it I guess it is. But the reality is, how many of those 66. 2 million people are true worshipers? Think about that with me, would you? Let's stand together as we honor the reading of God's Word Psalm 95 says, O come, let us sing unto the Lord. Let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving. Make a joyful noise unto him with psalms. For the Lord is a great God and a great king above all gods. In his hand are the deep places of the earth. The strength of the hills is his also. The sea is his, and he made it. And his hands formed the dry land. Oh, come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. Today, if you will hear his voice, harden not your heart as in the provocation. And as in the day of temptation in the wilderness, when your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my work. Forty years long was I grieved with this generation, and said, It's a people that do err in their heart, and they have not known my ways. unto whom I swear in my wrath that they should not enter into my rest. I want to read one portion just in your hearing in John chapter number four. And beginning in verse number 21, here's the New Testament parallel to Psalm 95. John chapter 4, verse number 21, Jesus saith unto her, woman, believe me. The hour cometh, when ye shall neither in this mountain nor yet at Jerusalem worship the Father. Ye worship, ye know not what. We know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father seeketh such to worship him. God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. Father, we bow again, for we are truly a needy people. But we are grateful this morning that we have such a father to come to. And I come, Father, praying that you'll help now to communicate the word of truth. I pray the Spirit of God would have liberty. And the Word of God free course. May it be glorified in us here today. And Father, may your will be done. You know the need of every heart, I pray you'd meet those Hide us behind the cross. Help us to lift up Jesus. Lord, be exalted and make true worshipers out of each one of our hearts. So do thy work in us that only you can. And we'll thank you and praise you. And Lord, we give you glory for what you've already helped us with and how you've ministered to us. We thank thee for it. Lord, again, we just want to say that we love you and appreciate you loving us. Thank you for the mercy you've shown us and the grace that you've poured out. We don't deserve a thing, Lord, but you've been better than good to us. And I praise your holy name. Please help us now. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You can be seated. Let me remind you of something Jesus said here before we get back to our text in Psalm 95. The Lord Jesus said, the true worshipers. Did you notice that? John chapter 4 and verse number 23. He made it clear that there are worshipers that are true. Well, what does that imply? That implies that there are worshipers who are false. Just as there must if there's a true, there has to be a false. Is that not correct? If there's one that's true, and Jesus said the true worshippers Then there must be false worshipers as well. You see, religion will not die in the last days. I don't believe that. In fact, there was a day that I thought, you know, as we get close to the coming of the Lord, religion is just going to fizzle out like a bad firecracker. But that's not true. When you read your Bible, you understand that religion is going to flourish. It's going to prosper in the last days And there's going to be an abundance of religion. In fact, the Antichrist is going to rule through religious means. He's going to utilize religion for his benefit. And so there's going to be all sorts of worship. But here's the question: Is it true worship? The only worship we ought to be interested in this morning, at least here. Is true worship. Is my worship true worship? Oh, you say, preacher, we sing hymns. It's got to be true worship. Do you know you can sing hymns and not have true worship? Preacher, we read out of the King James Bible. You ought to read out of the King James Bible. But do you know you can read out of the King James Bible and not have true worship? You you can go down the long list of things that we often identify as true worship. You can have the right name on the sign, whatever that may be. you can have the right name on the sign, and that still not be true worship. You see, the woman Jesus spoke to was sort of caught up in the controversy of the day The Samaritans said, we worship over here in this mountain, because this is the only mountain you can worship in. The Jews say it's in Jerusalem that you worship. And she was hoping that Jesus would settle that debate. I find it interesting that many of the debates brought to Jesus were just dismissed. He never did answer them. And he said that the hour is coming and now is. That they that worship God must worship him in spirit and in truth. So he introduced something that she was not familiar with, and that was this idea of true worship. True worship. Back in our text this morning, Psalm 95, we find a call here to true worship The invitation is clearly given in verse number six. Oh, come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. I want to give you two simple thoughts here this morning. Number one, I want us to look at the worship of the true And then secondly, I want us to look at a warning to the false. The worship of the true and a warning to the false. I want you to look at the worship of the true. There are traits, or may I use the word characteristics, of true worship. That are always present in every case. You notice Jesus didn't put a lot of stock in place when it came to worship. Didn't put a lot of stock in that. Well now, preacher, we can't worship unless we're seated at 3141 Old Elk Neck Road. Well, I've got news for you, my friend, if and God forbid, but if we were to lose the building of 3141 Old Alt Mech Road, we could still worship God wherever the body assembled. Because God is not confined to place. There's true worship that can take place regardless of place. Jesus said the mountain in Samaria means nothing. The mountain in Jerusalem is not relevant here. The worship that takes place is a worship that's in spirit and truth. Let me interject this and just remind you that you can be a faithful church member and never be a true worshiper. You can do all the things expected of men and not be numbered among this group who Jesus identified as true worshipers. Let me give you five traits that are always present, they're always true about true worship. Number one, if you're noting that, would you see that it begins at salvation? Verse number one says, O come, let us sing unto the Lord. Let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. Do you know there can be no worship where there is no salvation? Some try to circumvent this. You can't, listen, to use the sports illustration, you can't get a home run if you don't touch first base Now you may make the rounds and you may slide in awful uh you know dramatically, but if you don't touch first base, it does not count. Salvation is first base. True worship begins because of salvation. Have you been to Calvary? The song says, Have you been to Jesus for his cleansing flood? Have you been to him and been washed from your sin? You can't worship until you know the wonder of being born again from above. And so the psalmist sings here to the rock of our salvation. Boy, what picture is drawn here as we think about the rock of our salvation. I'm glad the salvation that we have in the Lord Jesus. By the way, I believe Jesus even referred back to this truth when he spoke to Peter. And he told Peter that upon this rock I'll build my church. This rock, who 's the rock? Jesus is the rock He's the rock of our salvation. Aren't you glad that your salvation's not dependent on man? Look, I know men that wouldn't give me air in a jug if I was running out. But I also listen, I know men that would do more than that, but at the end of the day they're just men and that's all they can do. But only there's a God in heaven who can give salvation. He's the rock of our salvation. True worship begins there. You can't bypass this. That's why I say you can be a church member, but if you've never been to Calvary and had your sin put under the blood and been saved by the grace of God, you cannot truly worship. All true worship begins at salvation. You'll notice that a song and salvation come together. He says, Oh, come, let us sing unto the Lord. Let us make a joyful noise. Some people dismiss their singing and say, oh, it sounds so bad. Well, it may sound bad in the ears of others, but I promise you it sounds pleasing in the ears of God. Make a joyful noise. You know an old crow outdoes some Christians. Their song isn't pleasant, but they make a joyful noise. They got enough sense to sing with what God's given them. And I'm saying that there's a song accompanying salvation. The song what's the song of our soul? Redeemed. Redeemed. Do you have a song? Do you have the song of salvation? churning in your heart, and that doesn't mean that your road will be merry and that your path will be easy and that you'll just be bubbling over like some giddy little schoolgirl all the days of your life But it does mean there'll be a deep resounding joy in your heart that no matter what, I'm saved, saved, saved by God's wonderful grace. That's the song of salvation. And so it begins. All true worship begins at salvation. You never find lost people worshiping God in a true way. Now, by the way, there's lost people worshiping here in the Bible. There's record of it, isn't there? You look all through it, you'll find them. You'll find them bowing at all sorts of things they call God and naming all sorts of uh of of creatures that they they would worship. But at the end of the day it's not true worship. It's it's worship, but it's not true, true worship. Much like we are doing today. We don't have idols or groves of idols and things of that nature in this country predominantly. I think we're going that way. But at the the the the reality is that there are idolaters all across this country. And there may be idolaters in this building. It may be that you're sitting here and you're worshiping a God of your own making. Paul talked about that to the Galatians and he said, you've believed another gospel, which is not another gospel. You've believed in a Jesus that's not. By the way, if your Jesus is okay with anything you do or say, you need to make sure you know the Jesus of the Bible. If the Lord Jesus, whom you profess faith in, is nothing more than glorified man, you need to reread the Word of God and find out that He is not just glorified man, He is Almighty God. He's listen, here's what Isaiah said about him. He's the everlasting father. He's the Prince of Peace. He looked he 's all those things. He said, I'm the bread of life, the water of life. The resurrection and the life. He's all of those wonderful things. And my friend, it's very easy, even among religious people , to make a God of your own making. To form a God in your own mind that fits you, that 's made just for you. I don't know if you ever had anything. I think I had one suit one time that was tailored. Now the problem about a tailored suit is that you don't stay the way you were tailored very long. Why is that? We have a tendency to go, well, usually just one way. But you know, there is no gospel that just fits one way, one individual for every individual. It's not individual gospel. There's not a gospel that's tailored just for your situation. The Bible makes the stroke quite plain and says this, there is only one way. And Jesus is the way. And he's the truth and life. Not the Jesus I want him to be, or not the Jesus my culture says he is. By the way, that grieves me so we have a culture that's okay with the Jesus that's okay with so much that's called sin in the Bible. I'm going to tell you something today. There's a cultural Jesus that's being sold that calms an agitated conscience from time to time, but it'll never convert a lost soul. You hear him sung about, you hear him sung about in the modern music of our day. You hear him sung about, sometimes on a country radio station, and they sing about meeting Jesus while holding a beer in their hand Are on the same red dirt road where they got drunk. They supposedly met Christ. Now listen, I'm glad God saved drunks and God delivers them from that sin. God will forgive, but I've got news for you that Jesus that we serve is not just some elevated man, good old boy, buddy with everybody. He's the Lord God omnipotent who's seated in heaven above right now. And everybody in the Bible who saw him hit their face in humbleness. Well, notice this, would you? It begins at salvation. Number two, true worship is carried out in his presence. Look in verse number two. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving and make a joyful noise unto him with Psalms. Notice we're to come before his presence. Now, my Bible tells me that when I'm saved, I become the temple of God, and his presence is in me. Paul told the Corinthians, Know you not that your body is a temple of the living God? This old body that we live in is a temple, and God lives there. That's his presence. But Revelation chapter one and two, uh Revelation chapter one and two tells me that the Lord meets with his people. Now understand this. When saints assemble, the Savior is present. That's what my Bible says. He's in those golden candlesticks there walking about, and the vision John saw, and John was reminded that the one that was walking among the golden candlesticks was the very Son of God. I know somebody's going to say, Why, preacher, I can worship anywhere I choose. Well, that's true in a sense. But there's only one place he's promised to gather when the saints assemble He said, I'm going to be in their midst. In that great text where two or three, by the way, you know that's talking about church discipline, where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst But the reality is when the saints assemble, the Savior is present. I don't want to miss out on being where God said he'd be. Now God's not like some of us. People say, I I I'll be s I'll be there s you know, I'll be there. How many of you found out there's some people say I'll be there and they won't be there no more nothing I mean you couldn't find them. Or there'll be some people that'll say, uh, you know, I I hope to be there. If you've ever tried to sell something on the marketplace, I'm coming to look at that Five hundred times they tell you they're coming to look at that. And you never see them, right? You know what I'm talking about. They just don't keep their word. I'm gonna tell you something, that's not Jesus. The Lord Jesus keeps his word. The Lord Jesus assembles with his saints. In fact, there's a royal guest who walks among us every time we assemble in his name. He's present among his people. First, listen, when you and I are faithful to the house of God, we're faithful to the God of the house because we recognize that's where he said he would be, and I want to get where he is. Now listen, life may come and tragedy may occur, and our bodies may be struck down. And our bodies may be so broken that we cannot assemble. There's a God in heaven who knows that. Now I believe there's grace for that. If he had attention on this earth for the sick and infirm, do you think now that he's in heaven he has any less care? I'm glad he's a God who visits sickbeds, places of infirmity, hospital rooms and nursing homes and Where those dear souls are broken in body and infirm and can't cannot. There's a difference in cannot and will not Understand that. There are those that will not, though they could. There are those that would, though they cannot. There's a great difference. But notice, this worship must be carried out in his presence. It must be brought to him. Well, if you ever get a hold of this, you'll worship differently. Listen, worship's not about who's sitting on the pew next to you. Worship's not about the the the atmosphere of what's going on. I'm so tired of that word. Seems like every other promotion I get that comes across my desk is saying, oh, you've got to set the right atmosphere. Do you know the only atmosphere I need to be worried about is the atmosphere, is God pleased with this? Notice he says here, let us come before his presence with thanksgiving. It's to be carried out in his presence. And notice this, as we enter into his presence, we're to do it with thankfulness. We're an increasingly ungrateful people because we're an increasingly ungodly people. Godly people are thankful. They're grateful. They give thanks. And listen, as we come into his presence to worship, we ought to thank him. Is your little heart beaten? Thank God for it. He's the one that's in charge of it. Oh, you say, preacher, I walk five miles a day and take my vitamins, and there's not a whisker of fat on me. Well know this. All that could be true, but if God says stop, that heart will dead stop in its place. I'm not saying we don't care for ourselves, I'm just saying there's a God who's in control, and to him and him alone should we give thanks. He's worthy. He's worthy, whatever the condition of our our physical man, or whatever the situation in our financial world, or whatever is going on, he's worthy of thanks. If he's done nothing else but save you, he's worthy of thanksgiving from your lips. We ought to thank him continually and faithfully. It's carried out in his presence. Number three, I want you to notice something. True worship. This is always. These are things you'll always find present. It magnifies the greatness of God. That's what true worship does. It magnifies the greatness of God. Look at verse 3. For the Lord is a great God and a great king above all gods. Every time you find true worship recorded in the Bible, you find the greatness of God magnified. His greatness. There's no mention of man and his abilities. There's no magnifying of individuals. There's no promotion of denomination. There's simply the magnifying of the greatness of God. And if there's one thing we need to recover in this country is the magnification of the greatness of God. Mr. Spurgeon said, I want them leaving, I want them leaving my service saying, oh, what a great savior, not oh what a great sermon. My friend, the greatness of God ought to eclipse all other things in our worship. We don't have a small God. Our God's not minimal. He's not debilitated. He's not weak in any form or fashion. He's a great God. And the Bible declares it without hesitation or deviation. It says simply, the Lord is a great God and a great king above all gods. And we could camp there, couldn't we? Think about how great the Lord is. He gives a great salvation. Great security does he give to his people when they're saved. I'm glad I'm kept by the power of God. Listen, if I was doing the keeping, I'd be in trouble, wouldn't you? We'd be in trouble this morning if you had to keep yourself. But I'm not keeping myself. He's keeping me. He said, I give unto them eternal life And they shall never perish. Don't ever close your eyes at night thinking he'll go back on a promise he made you. He never has and he never will. He's a great God. Great God. Magnified. True worship always magnifies. Boy, look at John in the Revelation when he sees When he sees the Lord Jesus and he sees him in all of his majesty and he describes him in such a way that you mind, can't even wrap around What he's even talking about, except that this, he's great, he's a great God. He's like nobody you've ever seen, he's like nobody you've ever known. He's head and shoulders above all the rest In fact, like Paul told the Colossians, he's preeminent. He's preeminent. Ought to magnify, true worship ought to magnify the greatness of God. Number four, quickly. True worship emphasizes his works. It emphasizes his works. Here's how you know if it's true worship. Whose works are being emphasized? You know, you listen, and I try to listen to various things in people, and I hear things, and I hear them talking as if they've done great things. It's almost like Herod incarnate. This great city that I've built, this great church that I've built, this great people that I've gathered. And I remind you that the works that need to be emphasized are the mighty works of God. Look at verse 4 and 5. In his hand are the deep places of the earth. The strength of the hills is his also. The sea, I like this statement. The sea is his and he made it. It's like if some arrogant man says, Well, what claims does he have to it? He made it. That doesn't make uh listen, if you made it it's yours. And he made the sea? Do you know the one wilderness that's undiscovered is the depths of the sea? We've fathomed the heights of the mountains and the places of the earth, the far-flung reaches. There's nowhere on the earth that we've not at least tread once. and covered around this globe. But there are depths of the sea we've never been. By the way, God said that's where he puts you sin. I don't think there'll ever be a craft created that'll go as deep as the oceans go. I don't think they'll ever be able to discover the vast expanses of the sea. You know why? Because God said, I buried your sin down there. And I'm not going to dig it up or you're not going to find it again. Aren't you glad for a goddess so big that he made the sea itself? See, this emphasized true worship emphasizes the work of God. Oh my, how much of our worship is man-centered and man exalting It talks about what men do. Well let me tell you what I did. And I'll tell you what. Man can do some pretty good things and pretty impressive things, but there are things that only God can do. If you're sitting here on your way to heaven, you've got to thank God for that. That's a work of God. If you love Him and you're living for Him, that's a work of God. You can't take credit. You can't say, look at what I've done or look at who I am. You have to bow your head and say, oh, what great things the Lord has done. The Lord's done some things in my life. He's working. And so it magnifies or emphasizes his work. Now here's the fifth mark of true worship. It humbles man. Look what he says here. Oh, come, let us worship and bow down. That means to crouch low. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. For he is our God. And we are the people of his pasture and the sheep of his hand. You know what's happening here? True worship humbles man. It always does. You know today we're hung on this feel-good thing. Somebody told me recently, I want to go to church where I feel good. I said, Marinath ain't the place for you. And I just had to be honest. But but listen, my friend, who wants to go to a doctor that makes you feel good? Oh, you're dying of cancer, but your blood pressure's wonderful. Feel good about it. Huh? I want him to look me right fair in the eyes and say, boy, you got a problem. My family doctor in Nova Scotia, he passed away last week, I just heard. And Dr. Ferguson was that kind of man. Pe some people didn't like him because he was so straightforward. And he'd just tell you like it is. And uh some people get their feelings hurt, and I was in the emergency room one night and and he was talking to someone and he was talking to them in very strong, direct terms. And when he went out of the room, one of the nurses went back in and was consoling the patient because the doctor just ripped him up. And he came to my room next, and he said, he called me Rev. He was not a saved man. And I told him there's only one that we revere, and that's God. But uh he uh so I said if you're gonna call me Rev, I'm gonna call you Doc. And so uh Doc came in, he said, Rev, um, did you hear what I said over there I said, yeah, I heard it. He said, I'm sorry for those words I used. I said, yeah, I heard those too. But he said, it burns me up. That the condition these people get in. This person in particular, he said, self-inflicted. And he said, I'm just trying to help them. And he said, You don't need a little pat on the back. Sometimes you need a spank somewhere else. He says you need to be slotted and woke up. And there were times he came into my room and he said things that made me mad and I told my wife I'm not going back. And then I found myself going back. Why? Because he told me the truth. And I want you to know something. When we worship the Lord, he comes and he comes in such a way that he gives us truth. And he doesn't moll he he he he doesn't just shake us around like little babes a and say, oh, it's okay. It's okay. Your worldliness is okay. Your ungodliness is okay. Your wickedness is okay. Your lust is okay. No, no, no. He speaks the truth And the truth of God humbles man before him. Had a man used to preach for me, and I've never seen anybody do this, but before he would preach, he would pray. I've seen men pray, but he would lay flat out on his stomach and pray. Every time he would before he would preach, it lay right on the platform. He didn't do it for attention or anything like that, but he he made this statement. He said to me one afternoon, he said, Preacher, if you only knew what God took me out of. He said, I don't feel worthy to stand up. He said, if it wouldn't be so distracting, I'd lay on my face and preach. And I thought he knew something about worship. Notice a crouched down and a bow down, he says, Come let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. And again, these are postures that are indicative of humility. They indicate it. Now I understand, look, again, physically God understands this. Your body may be in such a state you can't bow down I mean real, let's just get realistic. There there are some you get down, I I'm telling you there's sometimes we have altars of prayer and I think we're gonna have to install lifts Some have a hard time getting up. Some of us have a hard time. But listen, he's emphasizing the great truth that we're to come low before God. Listen, he's God. He's not just some stuffed or propped-up man. He's Almighty God. And as Almighty God, we come low before him, because listen, there's nothing good in me or you except the lovely Lord Jesus Christ. This lie of the devil that's propagated across this land, fueled by the humanistic thinking and ideology. that's propagated in these public school systems is saying, you're you're good, you're okay, you've got a little spark of good, we just got to find it and blow on it Now you got a spark burning in you, but it's not good. It's from hell. And when you blow on it, that thing will erupt and sometimes cause a wildfire What I have in me is utter corruption. I'm depraved, totally depraved, but I'm glad there's a God in heaven who will save me and change me and transform me and give me grace and put eternal life in me. Make a new creature out of me. Bless his name. And if that don't humble you, my friend, there's nothing else will. True worship humbles man. Can I give you the warning real briefly? Because I think it it 's not fair if we don't see that this is the mark of true worship, but there is a warning to the false. There is false worship. You'll notice the last part of verse 7 says, Today, if you will hear his voice, look, God's speaking. And can I say to you that the warnings of God come with hope? When God sounds the alarm, it's not just merely to alarm. When God sounds the alarm, it's how do I know God's speaking to me? There's always hope involved See, the devil is a condemner, an accuser of the brethren. And I note that when he speaks, there's no hope. He's full of despair. There's no way out. There's no solution. There's no answer. There's no mercy. There's no grace. When God speaks, he speaks with hope. He says today, if you hear his voice, you get an opportunity. You don't have to continue to be a false worshiper. You can become a true worshiper. Hear the voice of God. And here's what he says: number one: harden not your heart. The warning to the false worshipper is: be careful about hardening your heart. The more you reject, the more stiff-necked you become, the more stubborn you are in your heart. You know, I wonder I wonder if sometimes we become gospel hardened I believe there's a lot of people like that in this country, sitting in churches like this, maybe present here this morning. You've heard it all. You've heard it all. You've heard it more than once. You've heard the voice of the Lord and you've hardened your heart. And be careful because there's a progression, because when you begin to harden your heart, it just gets harder and harder. And harder. I don't have time this morning, but Romans chapter 1 gives the per the progression from idolatry to immorality to irreversible judgment. Idolatry, immorality, and irreversible judgment. God says I'll reprobate them. Cut them off. Cut them off. I I think there are people living who are cut off. There are people living that are that there's no mercy to be had. They cross the line. Now I don't know where it's at. God alone does But God draws the line, and when God draws the line, the man walks over that line, he hardens his heart against God. There's a place of irreversible judgment. Be careful about hardening your hearts, church. I believe Pharaoh hardened his heart first and then God finished it The Bible says Pharaoh hardened his heart. He initially was the one who hardened his heart, and then God stepped in and God hardened his heart. You know there's going to be a crowd on this earth when Jesus comes and he takes his church home. There's going to be a crowd who will be believe a lie. And they'll be so deceived that they cannot receive the truth. It is people who've rejected and hardened their hearts, and the Lord has come, and they've crossed that line of mercy, and there's no more chance to be saved. They had an opportunity, but they would not be. Folks, you play with whatever you want to play with, but don't play with God. They hardened their heart. Number two, they tempted God. Verse 9. Your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my work. That word tempt means to put to the test from doubt or out of doubt. They doubted his power and they doubted his person. They listened to the devil's lies. And you know the devil's lies always include a question mark. Yea, hath God said. You mean God, does God really mean that there's only one way to heaven? Well, he said that. And God don't change his mind or word. And so you mean to tell me that that that God would uh you know that that that he says that that uh Jesus i in his death on the cross And the shedding of his blood and the resurrection are the only way for a man's sin to be answered for. It's what the Bible teaches us. And I'm saying that we need to be careful in this thing of tempting God and doubting him. Had a lady in our church in Canada, she uh was a Sunday school teacher for about thirty years in the First Baptist Church. And in the early 50s, they came to her and said, please stop teaching the Bible lessons that have miracles. And she said, Why? Well, we don't want our children to believe that God can do the supernatural. That's what they say. You know what that is? That's tempting God. But brother or sister, if you're not careful, you can sit on the pews of Maranatha Baptist Church, hear the word of God preached, and tempt him just the same in your heart by doubting the power of God and his ability to do what he said he would do. Beware. Number three, he warns the false about an erring heart. Look what he says in verse 10. Forty years long was I agreed with this generation, and said, It's a people that do err in their heart. It means to be misled or to stray away. And you know when I read that verse, I think of the golden calf. They're days out of Egypt. And they're errant in their heart. Their days. God's look, God did things for them he never did for anybody else. He he he worked the the the ten plagues down there in Egypt and afflicted the people and kept the people of God from all of that suffering. And then he brought them across on dry land. And they witness miracle after miracle after miracle. And when Moses is gone longer than they expected, what do they do? Make us a God so we can worship. And they're bowing down at a golden calf? Did they not see all those idols down in Egypt and how useless they were? Did they not understand that the the gods of Egypt, and they had lots of gods, they were a people that worshipped gods of all sorts and making, and they would bow down, put near to anything, even cats. Now that'll tell you something You worship a cat, you got a problem. Amen. Say amen. I'm just kidding. No, not about worshiping a cat. Don't worship a nasty thing. Anyway, Lord help me. But understand this. Moments after coming out of Egypt, they're giving a sacrifice to something Aaron made in a fire? Some sort of inanimate object? Jeremiah said you cut them down and carve them up and bring them in the house and worship them and burn half of them to bake you supper with. How foolish idolatry is. But listen, be careful. Because your heart and mine is like the hymn writer said, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. After seeing God do things and work things that only He can work, how prone is our old heart to say, Oh my, let's go this way. And let's go that way. They had an erring heart. Then notice this. Number four, he warned them about a lack of knowledge. He says, and they have not known my ways. Isn't that sad? They were among the people of God, they were with the people of God, they were numbered. As the people of God, and yet they didn't know God, and they did not know his ways. Being a church member is not going to get you to heaven. Sitting on the pews of this church is not going to get you to heaven. Doing all the things outwardly that's expected of you will not get you to heaven. The only thing, my friend, is a personal relationship with the living Lord Jesus Christ. And by the way, we're inexcusable when it comes to not knowing who God is in his ways, because we have a Bible. Now, they didn't have what we've got. We have a Bible. We have a complete Bible. You've got a record. You've got the whole record right here. You can read it for yourself. Now look at the sad conclusion. Unto whom I swear in my wrath, verse 11, that they should not enter into my rest. There was a host of people who never saw what God prepared because of their unbelief. They were false worshipers. They didn't go into rest. Listen to this. Best commentary, please note this. The best commentary you'll ever find on the Bible is the Bible itself. And in Hebrews chapter 4, verse 1, Paul wrote this: Let us therefore fear, lest a promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of it. For unto us was the gospel preached as well as unto them, but the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it. For we which have believed do enter into rest, as he said, as I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest, although the works were finished from the foundation of the world. See, there's a rest to be had, and you know where it's at? It's in Jesus. There's your rest. Oh, my friend, that old song, Haven of Rest. My soul in sad exile was out on life's sea. Oh, how troubled and distressed it was. I heard his, what did his sweet voice say? That sweet voice gave an invitation to come into the rim. By the way, the writer of that song went to sea at the age of 16 to learn how to be a navigator on the open ocean. And while navigating, he was born in Ireland, and while navigating, they sailed across and landed in Philadelphia. He decided that the stormy seas were for him no more. And he got off the boat and started painting houses in Philadelphia. God used him in a special way. He wrote many hymns. But you know what he discovered? That sometimes on a wild, storm-tall sea, you need a place of rest. You need a place of calm. You need a place where the storms can't reach you and where the wind can't blow and where your ship can't be rocked. And I'm glad in the Lord Jesus. Listen, my friend, lost in my sin, I was out on that wild sea. And without God and hope, man headed for a certain disaster knowing that I would go down and be damned forever. But there was a haven of rest offered. There's a place of refuge in the Lord Jesus. He said, Come unto me all ye that labor, and I'll give you rest. What rest I find in Jesus. You'll never find it in church. You can do all expected of you and still be troubled inside. You can do all that's demanded of you and still not have peace. The only place you'll find peace is in Christ. I learned as a l as a young boy, eight years of age, when God saved me. I tried to do what I was supposed to do. That I guess part of what my makeup is or my nature, and I wanted to please my mother and I wanted to please my father I wanted to do good in Sunday school, and I wanted to do right. And I found out that whatever was churning on the inside couldn't be stopped by all of that. And the troubling of my heart over my sin was not you couldn't quieten it by saying, Well, I go to Sunday school Or I go to church, or my parents are Christians, or my church preaches the gospel. I tried all of that. But none of that brought peace nor rest. But the day I said, Lord, I'm a sinner. And I need you to save me. And Christ saved my soul. I found rest in the finished work. Jesus died for my sin. He took it on himself. He paved the sin debt in full. He shed his blood. It's all about him. The gospel was not about me. It was all about him. He was the haven of rest. My little ship had to sail in there by faith. And everyone here, my friend, you'll never find rest anywhere else but in Jesus Christ. You can worship all you want to worship. You can go through all the religious exercises and outward ceremonies you want to go through. You can do everything imaginable, and you'll still not have rest. The rest that remains for the people of God is the rest in the finished work of Jesus Christ. Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. He's the one who paid my sin debt. I lay my case this morning at the feet of the Lord Jesus. I trust my soul in his good hands. He alone saves. He alone cleanses. And my friend, listen, until you get there, you'll be a troubled ship sailing through the sea of life. Until you get there. Have you got there? I hope you have. I hope if you've not, today will be the day you get there and realize there's rest. Now listen, are you a true worshiper? Are you a true worshiper? Have you found that haven of rest in the Lord Jesus? Troubled sailors Never look at the beauty of the sea. They're simply trying to survive And troubled souls can't see the beauty of God in the person of Jesus Christ until you find rest in what Jesus did to save you. Boy, it's when you get there you can look around. I've been out in some storms out not on the sea, but I've been out in the out of doors. And then out we we had a thing they called we had Hurricane One come through in the fall, and then its counterpart came through in February. Happened on Elizabeth's birthday. I believe she prayed for it. She's kind of contrary that way. She prayed for that kind of storm. We had five feet of snow in that storm. 80 mile an hour winds. Now, when five feet of snow have eighty mile an hour winds behind them, you have some massive drifts. It covered over the peak of our house. We kept having to watch the chimney so that it wouldn't smother it and and uh choke us out And I was out in that storm. Man, it was terrible. It was blowing and tearing shingles off and it it just it seemed like it would never stop. It was one of those storms started at three o'clock in the evening. And it went until past lunchtime the next day. Just snow and wind and snow and wind. We tried to keep the drive open and tried to keep the house some some windows open and some doors. And keep the the chimney clear. I was out multiple times and I thought, man, this thing's horrible. And that evening I laid down and the next morning we got up and we went outside and it was just bluebird sky And it was the prettiest thing. I mean, these formations that the snow had created. And I thought, what a difference it makes when the storm is past. I mean, there was times I'm thinking, is this old house going to stand here much longer with all this wind and shaking and beating? And then the next day it was the most beautiful, we were taking pictures and they're like, oh, look at this and how beautiful it is. And just moments earlier, we were thinking, my goodness, are we going to live through this thing? I said that to say this. Until you rest in the Lord Jesus, you're going to be a troubled soul. You'll see no beauty in God nor the Savior. You'll find no place of admiration or worship. You can't. Your soul is in exile. Your soul is in turmoil. But oh, when you come to Jesus. And you bow before him and take the gift of eternal life freely from his hand by faith. He gives to you such a calm you understand. that he's altogether lovely. Even the threatenings of the law are silenced at the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. I say, oh, what a savior Oh, what a Savior. Do you know him today? Friend, I highly recommend him. And if you do know him, my friend, oh, how are we striving to be true worshipers? Are we seeking to worship Him as Jesus said in spirit and in truth? Lord help us. Lord make me a true worshiper. Would you stand with me, please? Brother Dow, I want you to sing that song, Haven of Rest.