I only have one complaint, they just sing one. I don't know why they don't sing two. They have to work on that. Anyway, thank God for what the Lord Jesus has done. And I hope you hadn't forgotten what he did when he saved you. A wonderful thing to be saved. The Lord in his mercy would go to where you were when you could not come to where he was, and he saved you. And uh probably all of us, in fact, truthfully all of us, whether we realize it or not, we're going the other way. The Bible says no man seeks God, but God came seeking us. And I'm so thankful. Praise his name. Don't get over it. Don't get over it. You get over the measles, you get over the flu, you get over COVID, but you don't get over the Lord Jesus. Saving your soul. Thank God that he did. Amen. Be in trouble if we weren't saved deceiving. And you think many many would already be in hell. Many people sitting here, you would be in hell already, had the Lord not in mercy saved you. But thank God for his good salvation. So full and free. Would you take your Bibles, please, and open to the Psalms and we're going to look at Psalm 34, Psalm number 34. And I want to read the first eight verses in your hearing. Psalm 34 And we're going to read verses 1 to 8. I'll invite you when you find your place to stand along with me and We'll read God's precious word. The Bible says in Psalm 34, verse 1, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. The humble shall hear thereof and be glad. O magnify the Lord with me and let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord, and he heard me and delivered me from all my fears. They looked unto him and were lightened, and their faces were not ashamed. This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him, and delivereth them. O, taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him I want you to look at that last phrase in verse 8, blessed is the man that trusteth in him. And the Lord helping me this evening, I want to bring a message on this thought. Trust God. Trust God. Let's pray. Father, we come before you now and thank you for the privilege that we've had to be here. We thank you for what our hearts have already enjoyed, and Lord, we thank you for the sweet reminder, the fact that you would save the likes of us. And Lord, we thank you for reminding us continually of your goodness and salvation. Lord, such a wonderful thing. We cannot get over what you have done, nor do we desire to. That you would save someone like us. Lord, like me. I can't speak of nobody else, but I I want to thank you, Lord, that you'd save somebody like me And I want to thank you, Lord, for the privilege now that we have to study your word. Help us from it. Grow us in the grace and knowledge of Jesus Christ. And Lord, get maximum glory and honor and praise out of all that's said or done. And we'll praise you and thank you now, for we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. Now, this psalm is an alphabetical psalm. By that I mean that in the Hebrew There are 22 lines to this psalm, and each one of those lines start with the corresponding letter of the Hebrew alphabet. I believe they were written this way to help memory, to help the individual who would learn these Psalms to be able to get them stuck in their mind and stuck in their heart. You'll notice here that the theme really, I think, of this psalm is found in verse 8. And he says, Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. Trusting God is the bedrock of our profession. Trusting God is what we build upon. We build our faith. upon the fact that we have trusted the Lord. Here's what Paul wrote to young Timothy in 2 Timothy 1. 12. He said, I know whom I have believed. And am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. 143 times the Bible instructs us to trust God. And this is no light, airy, silly, shallow uh exhortation. This is the scriptures. This is the word of God. This is the God of heaven saying trust. Now, how many of you know as a Christian, people say things, as Christians, that really They ought not say. And how many times have people flippantly said in a very serious situation, just trust God? And you feel like saying, I'm trusting God. They used to aggravate my preacher for carrying a weapon. He carried a weapon everywhere he went. He always carried one. They said, Ralph doesn't trust God. I remember one day he got up and he said, Ralph trusts God, but Ralph don't trust the devil. That's why I carry. Well, there's a lot of foolishness. We say we say to someone going through a trial, and you know what? Some of Job's friends, we talked about Job this morning. Some of Job's friends came along and in their way said, Job, just trust God. Just trust God. And I believe many a child of God has had their heart wounded by loose-talking people who say, just trust God. I'm not preaching that tonight. But I am preaching this: trust God. Because God said to trust him. Because we've been exhorted in the Word of God to trust Him. Do you know the greatest Collection of these exhortations are right here in the Psalms. In fact, it's over 80 of the 143 Times in the Psalms it tells us trust the Lord. Maybe help it'll this will help us. Let's take our Bible And go back to the second Psalm. Let's run through some of these real quick and see what the Bible says about trusting the Lord. Psalm 2. Psalm 2. If you'll turn fast, I'll read fast, okay? Psalm 2 and verse 12 says this Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish from the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all they that put their trust in him. Look at Psalm 4. Psalm 4 and verse 5. Offer the sacrifices of righteousness and put your trust in the Lord. Put your trust in the Lord. Psalm five. Psalm five, verse eleven says, But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice. Let them ever shout for joy because thou defendest them. Let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee. Psalm 7. Psalm 7, verse 1 says, O Lord my God, in thee do I put my trust. Save me from all them that persecute me and deliver me. Look at Psalm 9. Psalm 9 verse 10. And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee. For thou, Lord, hast not forsaken them that seek thee. Psalm 11, verse 1. In the Lord put I my trust. How say ye to my soul, flee as a bird to your mountain? No need to run when you trust God. Psalm 16, one. Preserve me, O God, for in thee do I put my trust. Psalm 18, look at it, please. Psalm 18, verse 2. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my strength, in whom I will trust. My buckler, the horn of my salvation, and my high tower. Psalm 25, verse 2. Psalm 25, verse 2. O my God, I trust in thee. Let me not be ashamed. Let not mine enemies triumph over me. Psalm thirty-one Psalm thirty-one, verse six. I have hated them that regard lying vanities, but I trust in the Lord. Psalm thirty-seven verse three Trust in the Lord and do good So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Psalm 40. Psalm 40, verse 3. And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall hear it and fear, and shall trust in the Lord. Psalm 56. Psalm fifty-six, verse three. What time I am afraid? I will trust in thee. In God I will praise his word. In God I have put my trust. I will not fear what flesh can do unto me. Psalm 62 Psalm 62, verse 8. Trust in Him at all times, you people, pour your heart out before Him. God is a refuge for us, Selah. Psalm 71. Psalm 71. Psalm 71, verse 5 says, For thou art my hope, O Lord God. Thou art my trust from my youth. Well that's critical. That's critical. How many of you got in as an adult? You got saved as an adult. How many of you got saved as a young person in your youth? Isn't it better to get saved in your youth and trust the Lord from your youth forward? Sure is. Psalm 73 and verse 28. Psalm 73 and verse 28 says, But it's good for me to draw near to God. I have put my trust in the Lord God that I may declare all thy works. Psalm ninety one, Psalm ninety one, verse two I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress, my God. In him will I trust. Go over to Psalm 115. We're nearing the end. Just keep turning. Psalm 115. Starting in verse 9, look what the Bible says. O Israel, trust thou in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. O house of Aaron, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. Ye that fear the Lord, trust in the Lord. He is their help and shield. Notice with me Psalm one eighteen. Psalm one eighteen Verse 8 says, It's better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. It is better to trust in the Lord, verse 9, than to put confidence in princes. Look at one more place, Psalm hundred and forty-three. Psalm hundred and forty-three, verse eight. Cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning, for in thee do I trust. Cause me to know the way wherein I should walk, for I lift up my soul unto thee. You get the point? Trust the Lord. Not on my authority, not on any exhortation from me. The word of God is teaching us to trust in the Lord. You say, what does it mean to trust in the Lord? Well it means to have confidence in. To have confidence in. The word also means to exercise faith in Or to be sure or to rely in such a way that you have both certitude and conviction. By the way, with God you can implicitly trust in Him. You know why? Because he does not lie and he does not change. And you can trust in the Lord. Trust in the Lord with what? All thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him in what? He shall direct thy paths. Trust in the Lord. If I could just simply say this evening any one thing that I want you to take home, and it's this, just trust God. Trust God in the dark, trust him in the light, trust him in the good, trust him in the bad, trust him in the ups, trust him in the downs. Just trust the Lord. He does not fail. Now there are four things that we see in this Psalm that are made possible when we trust the Lord. Four things. Number one, I want you to notice we have the ability to praise God when we trust him. The ability to praise God when we trust him. Go back to the text and look at verse one and two. Psalm thirty-four, verse one and two. He says, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. The humble shall hear thereof and be glad. Paul and Silas in Acts chapter number 16 have just encountered a real negative reaction to the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I think you understand that we live in a world that does not want to hear their need for a savior. And I think the further we get in this thing, the more we're going to realize the less this world will tolerate. The preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We have great freedoms in this country. We're a very small minority as far as the world is concerned. And you know, we get a little upset if somebody, you know, throws a track back in our face or they uh say something nasty or mean, but in some places they put you to death. For preaching Christ. Paul and Silas were were in such a place, and you know there in Acts 16 The Bible says, starting in verse 20, they brought them to the magistrates, saying, These men being Jews do exceedingly trouble our city. By the way, what this fe this these people didn't understand is that these men were there to help their city. And had they listened to the gospel that was being preached, it would be a whole lot better place to live. But they said they're troubling our city. What they really ought to have said is they're troubling us living in our sin. They're bothering us about our sin. And then it says they teach customs which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe being Romans. And the multitude rose up against them, and the magistrates rent off their clothes and commanded to beat them. Now these men weren't gingerly handled, they were beaten. I mean they were really knocked about and bruised and and battered. And verse 23, and when they had laid many stripes There's no counting. They just beat them. They just put a lot of stripes on them. They cast them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely. Who, having received such a charge, thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in the stocks. How many of you know that when you get hurt, it helps a little to move around? To shift position, you know, if you've ever had back trouble or anything like that, sometimes you can just sort of turn or just You can relieve yourself just for a little bit. It comes back. Then you have change again. You have swiss. Someone said to the point that uh when I sleep at night I I flip, you know, like something being baked in the oven, you know Just keep turning, turning, turning, turning, trying to find a smooth place. Well, these men were locked fast in the stocks. They couldn't move. They've been beaten. I'm sure they're hurting. They're they're bleeding and they're bruised and they can't move, and that just makes the misery all that much the more. But look at the very next verse, verse 25 , and at midnight Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God, and the prisoners are What made those men able to praise God in a situation like that? You know what it was? They trusted God. They just simply trusted the Lord. There is nothing that will make you sing any more than trusting God in the midst of your circumstances. David said this, I will bless the Lord at all times. Don't matter if it's a good time, a bad time, an uptime, a downtime. He said, I'm going to praise the Lord. Now you can't do that if you don't trust God. But you sure can if you do. If you trust in the Lord, you can praise him. And it helps us be able to praise the Lord. He said, My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. When you trust God, somewhere or another praises will eak out. When you're trusting the Lord, you know, I was thinking a little bit this afternoon about some saints I've watched who really suffered with some disease or or something of that nature. And uh as they progressed in that thing and their bodies grew weaker And their sickness took hold and death was looming, they just kept praising the Lord. Now you can sit in church and paint a smile. You can do that. You can you can s smile at your friends and shake their hand and and say everything is all right, but when you're facing the reality that death's coming and my body's decaying But and and still be able to praise God, you can't put that on. That takes the reality that God in heaven puts grace in your heart. And you know how he does that? When you trust in the Lord. It gives us the ability to praise God. Number two, I want you to notice when I trust God, it not only helps me praise God, but it exalts God. He says in verse 3, O magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. It exalts the Lord. Can I put it in this way? Not that God needs this from us, but I believe He's pleased with us when we do this. It makes God look good. By the way, it makes God look good because He is good. We're not we're not making up something that's not true. I can still hear Pastor Sexton say, he said, you know what, if I was starving to death, I wouldn't give the devil the benefit of being able to enjoy it. He said, I'd get a hold of me some alka seltzer and I'd fill my belly, drink water, swell up, and just say, Lord, I'm just so full, I'm just going to die fat. He said, that's what I'd do, because I I wouldn't want the devil to get any glory in in my suffering. Now listen, you know what? We ought to be interested in in a spiritual way making the Lord look good We ought to exalt his name. We ought to glorify his name. You know what David said? He said, Let us exalt his name. Let's lift that name. Let's magnify that name. Let's make much of him. You know why? Because he is worthy. He's worthy. You know them three Hebrew boys in Daniel chapter 3 when they face Nebuchadnezzar's fiery furnace. You know what those boys did? They made God look good. They made God look good and they made Nebuchadnezzar look bad. They made him look like a fool. In Daniel chapter 3 we read it, and I just want to read a little bit of it, starting in verse number 16. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abandigo answered and said to the king, Now remember, the king said, When you hear the sound, and he goes to all them instruments, When you hear those sound, you get on your knees and you bow at this idol. And so that came to pass and and Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego wouldn't bow. And uh the king said, Listen, if you don't bow, I'm gonna throw you in the fiery furnace. And here's how they answered. They said, King, we're not careful to answer thee in this matter. If it be so, our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace. And he will deliver us out of thine hand, O King. But if not, now this if not, there's a whole lot hanging there. But if not, be it known unto thee, O King, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. You know what they said, King? Our God's better than this Our God's bigger than this. Our God's able. And whether he brings us out of the fire or through the fire or simply lets us perish in the fire, We won't be in your hands no more, but our God is greater than this idol, and we will not bow. You know what those boys did? They exalted the name of the Lord. They magnified his name. And you know, we need a group of Christians in this late dark hour that trusts God enough to exalt his name. You know, we put a lot of stock in names, and I'm a little leery of names. I'm an independent Baptist by conviction. I'm not ashamed of that name, but I don't go around exalting that name. That name that name means something to me because it's where I stand. It it's something I've come to in a conviction in my heart as I've studied my Bible. and I realize that this is Bible truth, this is New Testament doctrine. I'm not shy of that. I'm not afraid of that. I'm not interested in changing our sign to to to let you know sort of misrepresent who we are No, no, I think we need to stand where we stand and be not ashamed of where we stand. But listen to me, I don't exalt that name. I don't exalt that name. I'm not ashamed to be in a Baptist, but listen, I'm not exalting the name of Baptist. I'm not ashamed to be an independent But I'm not going to exalt the independent. I want to exalt that name that means everything to me. It's a name that saved my soul and a name that redeemed me and wrote my name in the Lamb's Book of Life. We're going to exalt that name because that name, one day, at that name, every knee's going to bow and every tongue's going to confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Let us exalt his name together. Boy, if you want to do anything, you ought to desire to make that name everything. Make that name the greatest name that men know and hear. You know we live in an age of of of personalities and and the exaltation of men. Always makes me a Little queasy. I I sort of like those those gospel hall brethren. They would put their names on the little flyers they'd hand out when they had a gospel meeting, but they wouldn't dare let their pictures get out. Now we got evangelists, they'll roll into town, they got their picture on the side of a tractor and trailer, man, like they are something special. I'm not up here throwing rocks or being critical. I'm just wanting you to know something. There's a bigger name to exalt than a man's name. There's a greater name that we ought to be interested in making much of around here. And it's not the name of the man who stands behind the sacred desk or someone else. It ought to be that lovely name. Oh, what a name, the name of Jesus The sweetest name I know is that name Jesus. I'll tell you something, many a fear has been quieted just by speaking that name. Brother Ralph said he was preaching down in Florida as a young man He's only about 17, 16, 17 years old, and he was down there preaching a meeting, and he said, man, the devil just so attacked him. He was staying in this um this little bunk house and and uh he said they didn't have air conditioning. Obviously back then, I I don't know how people lived in this part of the world or any place without air conditioning. I was uh I'm a sissy or something. I I don't know. Uh you know, you'd be crazy to live somewhere like this with no AC. I mean, how do you do it? But he said they put him in that bunkhouse and it was hot and he was struggling. The devil was fighting. And he said it was like the devil whispering in his ear, Ralph, I'll kill you before the morning. He said, I just felt overwhelmed by fear and just the devil come on against me. Now listen, you have a very real enemy. Now we can sit here and and and play Christian all we want to, but the devil's real and he'd like to destroy all of us if he could. And he said it just seemed like the devil just said, I'm gonna take your life, Ralph. And he said the only thing I could do was just lay there and say Jesus. But he said, you know something there's such power in that name, he said the more I said it the more freedom I felt. And he said, the s closer it seemed he got. He said, I just kept saying it. He said, next thing you know, I was shouting it. He said, I wasn't laying in my bunk. I was running around it. And he said I couldn't stay in that little house. I had to go outside. He said, I just run around. He said they thought the preacher had done lost his mind. He's running around outside shouting, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. I've got news for you, my friend. There's power in that blessed name It's that name we want to exalt and magnify and lift up. And you know what? When you trust God, you'll do that very thing. You do it best when you have the least amount of reasons to trust him. When the circumstances say, like Job's wife viewed, Job, just curse God and die. This has got really bad and it's getting worse. And so just just curse God and die. But a man who trusts God says, Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. Trust him. Trust God. When I trust God, it exalts him. Number three, I want you to notice in the text. When I trust God, it causes me to turn to Him. It causes me to turn to Him. Psalm 34 in verse 4. I sought the Lord, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears. Verse 5: They looked unto him and were lightened. And their faces were not ashamed. Verse 6, this poor man cried, and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all of his troubles. What made the man do this? It says here in the text that he sought the Lord, and he looked to the Lord, and he cried to the Lord. Well, he was trusting God. And because he trusted him, he naturally turned to him. You ever see anybody that walked on a cane? And they got so accustomed to that cane that they they literally, I mean, it it's something they turned to. When they stumble or just I mean it's just by nature, it's what they do. They they turn to that because they're trusting in it. It aids them in their walking abilities. And listen, the Lord is such a Lord that when I trust him, my heart naturally turns to him. The psalmist said, I'm praying, I'm crying, I'm seeking, I'm looking, all because I trust in the Lord. I believe we don't pray because we don't trust the Lord. We don't pray because we often think we can figure it out. We don't pray because we think I've got to come up with a solution. Somehow or another I've got to work this thing out. And so we like Jacob set and threat and plan and scheme. And put all these things together and and and we then we might put it all together and we ask the Lord to bless it. That's not praying. Psalmist David, by the way, do you know where this psalm was written? This is one of those Adulum Psalms. It was written in the cave of Adulum. It was written there after David had been chased away from Akish the king. He was the king of Gath, the king of the Philistines. And the Bible says, you can go back there and read it at some point in 1 Samuel chapter 21, you'll find that David, out of fear, fled to Akish. He fled to the king. The Philistine king. By the way, if you're saved, you're not going to get any help in the world. The devil's not going to help you. And that's exactly what David did. It was a fainting moment for David's faith. And David runs down there and he runs to Akish and he realizes when they start talking, I'm in trouble. Because some of his princes said, hey, you know who this is? This is that man they sing about up there in Israel. Saul has killed his thousands, David is ten thousands. This is that man. Our public enemy number one is standing at your throne, King Akish. And David starts hearing the talk. What's he going to do? Well, this to me is a sad moment in David's life, but it was a time David learned to trust God more. David began to act like he was mad. The Bible says he let his his spittle run down his beard. He began to scratch on the wall. He acted like he lost his mind. And when they brought him to the king, the king said, I don't need a crazy man. He probably had enough crazy ones already. He said, I don't need another one. Get him out of here. And can you imagine this? The Philistines had Israel's champion in their grasp, and they turned him away. They chased him off. Why'd they do that? Somewhere between David's running down there and this scheme of acting mad, I believe that poor man started crying. God, I'm in trouble. I don't think he had time to get on his knees and pray an elaborate prayer. By the way, how many of you know God will answer a prayer that's just made up of one word? All I can say sometimes is help, and here comes the Lord. Peter said, Save me, and the Lord got him out of that water where he was sinking. Know this, my friend, it doesn't have to be 150 words or greater for God to hear your prayer. It's the plea of the heart that just earnestly needs the Lord And whatever form it comes out in, my friend, there's a God who hears and answers prayer. And somewhere along the way, like Nehemiah, Nehemiah is called to the king, and he says, Why are you sad? You've never been like this in my presence Now you say, what's the big deal about that? He could have died. The king could have said, hey, I'm I'm you 're done. And not just done with the job, but you're done with life. Take his head. Get him out of here. But Nehemiah said, I prayed. He didn't run out and say, now I'm going to go pray. He likely just couldn't even close his eyes He couldn't even uh uh move his lips. He just in his heart cried out, Show me, Lord, what to say. And at that moment the Lord showed him what to say. Why? Because when this poor man cries, the Lord hears him and delivers him out of all his troubles. We serve such a God, my friend, that we can trust him and just cry out. It don't have to be theologically deep, it doesn't have to be poetically beautiful, it just simply has to pour out of a genuine heart. That says, God, I need your help. And when you cry to the Lord, He's a God who hears and answers prayer. So when I trust God, I'll turn to Him I naturally turn to him when I trust him. Let me give you one more. When I trust God, when I trust God, it calms my every fear. Look what verse 7 says. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth them. Can't you see old David sitting there in that cave? He's thinking back, you know something, I could have been Akish 's prisoner. My head could be hanging on his wall as a trophy. But there's somebody with me down there, and I didn't even realize it. The angel of the Lord campeth round about them. Oh, Saul wanted him dead, and he's going to learn that too. Saul wanted him dead And Saul did everything in his power to make him so, and yet God said, I got my angel around you. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear it. Know this, dear child of God, when you realize and trust in the Lord Fear can't live in that heart very long. David said it like this at what time? We read it already. I'm afraid I will trust in thee. And fear can't hang around long when you start trusting God with your whole heart. Calms every fear. How many fears has this one truth abolished? You imagine what it's going to be like in heaven to be able to meet people who've taken that one verse and faced incredible adversity and said, the Lord's Kept me safe. All my fears are gone. In 2 Kings, Elisha goes down to Dothan. And while he's down there, the Syrian armies surround him. They've been looking for him. They want him dead. They want him dead because of of of The fact that he's God's man, he's standing for the Lord in a pagan hour. And Elisha's servant, when he goes out in the morning, he rose up early, the Bible says. And he goes out and he realizes that they are surrounded. Here's what he said. 2 Kings chapter 6. And when the servant of the man of God was risen early and gone forth, behold, a host compassed the city, both with horses and chariots, and his servant said unto him, Alas, Master, how shall we do? We're surrounded. There's not a place to go. There's not a way to get out. We're two men, and they're thousands, thousands upon thousands. What are we going to do? We're in trouble. How many times do God's people get themselves in a predicament where it's just one against many? I mean, man, you're outnumbered. I like what Elisha said. The Bible says, and he answered, Fear not, for they that be with us are more than they that be with them. And I imagine that young servant scratching his head saying, I believe this man's lost his mind. Something's happened to this old fellow. He's been out in the sun too long. He can't count anymore. There's two, two, one, two, two of us, thousands of them. Look all around us. And so to aid this young man, he does this. It says he prayed. And Elisha prayed, verse seventeen, and said, Lord, I pray thee open his eyes, that he may see. And the Lord opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw, and behold the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha. Oh listen, you know what he sa he saw that the angels of the Lord encamp was round about them that fear him. He recognized that although uh I there's an army I can see, there's an unseen army that I cannot see. There's ones that are protecting and watching over, and every fear was abolished. You know Elijah went, or Elisha rather went about his way there. And it was like he was unmoved. He was unfazed. The young servant's having a meltdown, a panic attack. He says, I don't know what we're gonna do. And that and and Elisha wasn't even bothered. You know, Elisha had eyes to see what his eyes couldn't see. And I need eyes to see what my eyes can't see. I need eyes to see that the Lord's word is true. That the angel of the Lord does encamp around about them that fear him. I I don't see him, I don't I don't always get a glimpse of him, but I do know this, I know it's in the book, and because it's in the book, it's true And he and here, here this young man, God let him have eyes to see what you normally can't see. And when he saw that multitude Oh, how it abolished his fear. But I don't need the Lord to work a miracle in that way. I have the promises of God, and if I'll take the promises of God and trust them And trust in the Lord who gave them, I'll be able to say, Lord, no matter, it don't matter who's against us. If God be for us, who can be against us? It calms every fear when I trust God. Perhaps the greatest challenge you face and I is to just simply trust God. It's something you'll spend your whole lifelong learning to do. Trust God. He's trustworthy. He's trustworthy. And the longer you walk with him, the more you'll realize that, yes, I can trust the Lord. The Lord will take care, the Lord will work miracles. I don't know how he'll do it, but he will. And my friend, we could take the time this evening and have God's people walk by and at this platform and stand behind this sacred desk And I'm sure in your heart there are times that you trusted God, and that's all you could do. There was, I mean, you had no other recourse, you had no place to turn, but you trusted in the Lord, and the Lord was found faithful. God worked maybe in your life. He worked in a situation. He took care of the matter. Simply because you trusted him. And God allows our lives to unfold in such a way that we learn to trust Him just a little more day by day. You know, the children of Israel had to trust God every meal for his provision. Every meal. Some of them said, we'll store it. There were hoarders in the Bible. Did you know that? They said, we'll put it up. And it bred worms, it says, and stunk. God said every morning. He didn't give them a flowing fountain to follow them along the way that they could visibly see. Oh, the Bible says there was a fountain. There was a rock, and out of that rock came water. That rock was the Lord Jesus, but but when they needed water, my friend, they had to trust God. God had to provide it. God had to give them a shade by day and a fire by night. And my friend, all along that journey, every morning they got up, there it was 40 long years. You know what they learned? They learned to trust God. Every step was a step of faith. Every morning was a morning of trust. Every day was a building of confidence. And at the conclusion of that 20, or excuse me, of that 40 years, that crowd that was 20 years of age and under, they grew up trusting God. They didn't grow up down there in Egypt being provided for uh by the uh Pharaoh and and and and being kept taken care of as slaves. No, they didn't have that. They had to count on God That's all they knew, and for forty years they had been trained to trust the Lord. And so when they get over into the promised land And God tells them to do things like march around Jericho, and it don't make a lick of sense to march in front of your enemy with everything out exposed. It doesn't make any sense to do that, but they did that. Why? Because they learned to trust God If God can give me manna in the morning, He can give me my enemy's head in the evening. If God can provide for me water in a wilderness and provide for me in the desert Then God can conquer the this this great vast land that that that just seems to swallow men up. They were learning to trust God. Now listen I don't care if you've been saved five or fifty years. God's teaching you and he's teaching me to trust him. Every step of the way, trust me. You know, every crises is a lesson, trust me. Trust me. Every need is an opportunity, trust me. Just trust me Every obstacle that rises up is just another lesson and another class on trusting God. How many of you know you're in perpetual school? You're in the school of Christ. And you're constantly learning. What are you learning? Trust God. Trust God. And we are such sinners. That our nature is not to trust God. God works a hundred miracles. And the next bump in the road throws us into this. I don't know what I'm going to do. The children of Israel are such a glowing example of this that all through their life, I mean, God did wonderful things, and yet time and time again, time and time again, they simply We're perplexed. What are we gonna do? Well, and I don't say this lighthearted. I don't say I don't I don't know what you're going through, what you're up. I'm not saying this with a flippant spirit, but I am saying this, whatever it is, here's where the help starts. Trust God. Trust the Lord. Trust him because he's told you to. Trust him because he's worthy of that trust. He does not lie and he does not change. Trust him because it's the surest way to victory. It's the surest way. You say, preacher, how's going to get through it? Trust God through it. Just trust God through it. And oh, how faithful the Lord is. Even, here's what Paul told Timothy. He said, if we deny him, he abideth faithful. Sometimes I don't trust him like I ought to. David didn't trust him when he ran to Akish down there to get help. David wasn't trusting God like he ought to when he ran to the Philistines and said, Saul's going to kill me. He wasn't trusting God when he was down there looking for help. But by the time he got to the cave, he had got straightened out. And down there in that cave, he said, God, I'm going to trust you. And you know what God did? He started sending him men. Those mighty men, those disgruntled and indebted individuals and displeased. They came down there and God started doing something. Why? Because David had learned to trust in the Lord and he spent his whole life learning it still. You say, preacher, I got that trust in God thing under wraps. All right. Guess what? There's a big test coming. And you'll have to trust him again. And you'll learn something about trust. You'll learn something about trust in the next trial that you didn't know before. You start to learn that it is sweet to trust in Jesus. Like the old song says, 'Tis so sweet, Brother Dow be finding that, sir. Tis so sweet to trust in Jesus. Just to take him at his word. It's a wonderful thing to be able to do that, and I need to be reminded again and again and again that in my life the requirement of the Lord is that I just trust him. Lord, I don't know what you're doing. Well I I do, so don't worry, trust me. You know, how many of you taught your children how to drive? It was your responsibility to teach them. Wasn't that a harrowing experience? Some of us age by decades. It was my lot to do both, to teach both of our children how to drive. And uh both had a different attitude. I I can remember uh Josiah wanted to learn. He he had that teaching. Sarah said, Dad, just trust me, I know what I'm doing. And we get in the car. She knew what she was doing all right. She knew how to nearly kill us, and thank God we lived where there weren't weren't a lot of traffic, just ditches and moose and bear and everything else and man I'll tell you I did a whole lot of praying when she got behind the wheel. And she'd say, Let's ride the town and I'm thinking, dear Lord If you want me to keep pastoring this church, just keep me alive to get there and get back. I'm not kidding, man. It was scary And uh I love that sweet little thing and missed her dearly, but I wouldn't get in a car with her now. I still don't ride with her. Joseph sent me a picture, said I'm riding with look, I wouldn't ride. I said, son, you're crazy. Don't let that woman drive. You you're the professional, you're the truck driver, you drive, don't let her. But what I'm saying is, you know there comes a point. There comes a point. She said, Dad, when you get old and I have to take care of you, you know who's going to take you the doctor? I said, I pray Joseph still is alive and can take me, but sometimes you just gotta trust. Because you don't know how the ride's going to go, you don't know how it's going to end, you may not even know where you're going. But I serve a God whose character is impeccable. I serve a God who's not failed one of his little children. I serve a God who's never made a mistake, never said oops, hasn't dropped it. Listen, we serve a God who's perfect Totally and holy in his nature, and you can trust him with your whole heart. You don't have to know what he's doing or how he's gonna do it or how it's all gonna turn out Like a little child in his father's lap, you can lay your head down and trust the Lord. Trust him. Trust him. Father, help us, please.