Unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture is given by inspiration of God And is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. I want you to think about what we just read. We're beginning a series of messages this morning on what the Bible says. Now, rest assured, the Bible is a living book. The Bible speaks. In fact, I believe every time its pages are open, the Bible speaks. The Bible's always speaking and communicating and talking with us. And so the concern is here this morning, are we hearing what the Bible says? One thing for sure, when the Bible speaks, it speaks nothing but truth. It's a book of absolute truth. There's no deception in the Bible. There's no error in the Bible. There's no misdirection in the Bible. The Bible won't misguide you. The Bible is truth. And being truth, I want us to consider this morning. I'll say more about the Bible here in a moment, but I want us to think very seriously this morning about what the Bible says about hell. What the Bible says about hell. Heavenly Father, we bow our heads and we ask you to speak to our hearts. Help us, we ask. We pray that you would search our hearts and Lord I pray if there's one lost here today that today would be the glad day of salvation. I pray for the believer that you would stir our hearts to see the reality of eternal things and help us to live for what's important. Would you please, Lord, do your work among us for we're needy. And Lord, we look to you now and thank you for this privilege to pray. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. Now, Paul reminds young Timothy here that the Bible is a book like no other. Now you may own a lot of books, or you may own a few books, and the number of the books you own doesn't matter. But I do know this, no matter the number of books you own, there's no book quite like God's Word. It's a book that stands head and shoulders above all others. It's the only divine communication from heaven to earth. When the Bible speaks, I want you to remember this, we'll cover these again, but when the Bible speaks, it speaks in a saving way. It speaks in a saving way. Paul said to Timothy, the scriptures which are able to make thee wise unto salvation. When the Bible speaks, it has one goal in mind, and that is to bring lost men to the Lord Jesus Christ. It's like a funnel, if you will. Starting in the book of Genesis and ending in the book of Revelation, the Bible brings it all down to a focal point, and that focal point is this. You must be born again. That's the focal point of the Word of God. The Bible speaks savingly. This Bible is not meant to swell my head with facts It's meant to change my heart by the saving grace of God. The Bible is not meant to arm me for argument. The Bible is meant to bring me to redemption through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. This Bible is not to make me intellectually superior But this Bible is to make me morally sound and righteous in the eyes of God, which can only happen when I put faith and trust in the finished work of Jesus Christ. So the Bible speaks savingly. Number two, the Bible, when it speaks, it speaks divinely. Look what he said. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God. All Scripture, every book of the Bible, every verse, every chapter, every word All scriptures given by inspiration of God. God breathed this book. The Bible is not a creation, a man. I know that man can do many things, but one thing man can't do is he can't do what God does, and that's look inside and reveal what's in the heart of men. And that's what the Bible does I believe a lot of times people say, well, they say things like this. Well, I don't understand that King James Bible. Well, I think the problem is, is that we understand it too well. That oftentimes when I read the Bible, it reads me. When I open the pages of God's Word, it shows me things that I may necessarily not like to see, but need to see And it makes it so plain. Why? Because it's breathed by God. It's inspired. All scriptures given by inspiration. We read over in in uh 1 Peter, 2 Peter rather, that uh these are not cunningly devised fables. The Bible's not a book of fables. But holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. So we have in our hands something that is divinely speaking. I've got news for you, dear friend. What the Bible has to say is not the opinions of man. What it has to say, in fact, doesn't even take into consideration the majority's ideas or thoughts. It doesn't weigh that. You know, I don't know about you, but I I long for the day when when the people we send to represent us will stand up and just speak the truth. You hear you hear them talk and and you hear a lot of people talk anyway, and and here's what they do. They they say a whole lot of things and say absolutely nothing. And uh I mean it just is a constant circle of words. But in your hands is something that does not make a constant circle of words. Here is the truth from heaven. God is speaking divinely. But thirdly, the Bible speaks profitably. What the Bible has to say is for my good. You remember what he said here? Look at it. It's profitable. The Bible's profitable. What's it profitable for? Number one, doctrine. Number two, reproof. Number three, correction. Number four, instruction in righteousness. You say, preacher, what are those things? Well, could I make them very simple? Number one, doctrine is what's right. Plain and simple. Right, true, from the Lord. I mean, it's just what's right. It's the teaching of God, it's the instruction of God, it's the wisdom of God, the truth of God, that doctrine. That's what's right Number two, it it's it 's reproof. You say, What's reproof? That's what's not right. That's what the Bible will do. It'll show you what's not right. It will reprove you. A similar word to the word rebuke. But it reproves us. It says, hey, this is not right. Number three, we see the word correction. What is that? That's how to get right. That's what correction is. It's how to get right. I'm glad the Bible doesn't just condemn, the Bible shows me how to change. It'll tell me how to get right. And then notice this, instruction in righteousness. Number four, that's how to stay right Here's the way. Walk ye in it. Isaiah said, you'll hear a voice. That voice, here's what the voice will say. This is the way. Walk ye in it. Here's the voice. It's the voice of God. It says, This is the way. Walk ye in it. It's profitable. The Bible's profitable In fact, it's the most profitable thing you'll ever spend time in or with the precious Word of God. Now, when the Bible speaks, keep in mind it speaks without error. Oh, the Bible may not make me always feel good, but it will always tell me what is good. The Bible is what I need to hear. And so with that in mind, would you go to Luke 16 and hear what the Bible says on this subject called hell? I want you to know I take no pleasure in preaching on this, but it is a reality in the Word of God that I think we need to consider more often than we do. The reality of hell. What does the Bible say about it? I know what men say about it. Men say, oh, it's a figment of imagination. It's a. uh uh uh an instrument of religious abuse and all this. But but let's see what the Bible has to say again. This is the book that speaks savingly, divinely, and profitably Luke chapter 16 and verse number 19 says, There was a certain rich man which was clothed in purple and fine linen and fared sumptuously every day. And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate full of sores, and desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores. And it came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried. And in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in this flame. But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime received thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things. But now he is comforted, and thou art tormented. And beside all this, between us and you, there's a great gulf fixed, so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot, neither can they pass to us that would come from thence. Then he said, I pray thee, therefore, father, that thou wouldst send him to my father's house. For I have five brethren that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them. And he said, Nay, Father Abraham, but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent. And he said unto him, if they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead. It's a sobering statement made here in the Word of God. That if a man won't hear the Bible, he won't hear nothing else. If he won't hear what the scriptures say, he'll not hear anything else supernaturally designed. He said, though one rose from a dead, now I don't know about you, that'd be a pretty alarming thing. When I read in the Old Testament and see Samuel speaking to Saul , Samuel was dead. And when Samuel spoke, the Bible says that Saul exceedingly quaaked, he fell like a dead man. It filled him with terror when he saw that man, Samuel. And I'm saying to you, my friend, yes, it might move us, it might make us afraid if someone were to rise from the dead and bring a message. But the Bible says it will do him no good if he will not hear the Scriptures. And the Scriptures are declaring a message to us this morning. about the reality of this awful place called hell. We would do well to take heed to what the Bible has to say here. You know the Lord Jesus is misrepresented on many fronts. And oftentimes in our society, we try to make him culturally correct. Rather than biblically accurate. And the culturally correct Jesus, according to some religion, is not a man who ever spoke about hell or judgment. But the biblically accurate Jesus had a lot to say about hell. In fact, it was one of the main themes of the message that he delivered. Would you look at a few? I don't want you to take my word for it. I want you to open your Bible and go to Matthew chapter 10, and let's look at a few things And all of these that I'm going to read are the words spoken directly by the Lord Jesus while he was ministering on this earth. In Matthew chapter 10, verse 28. The Gospel of Matthew chapter 10 verse 28. Here's what the Lord says. Fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul. But rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. That's not my words, that's the Lord's words. Go over to Matthew chapter 13. Matthew chapter 13 Verse 42 The Bible says, And shall cast them into a furnace of fire. There shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. That's our Lord's words about this awful place called hell. Matthew chapter 25, please. Matthew chapter 25. And verse number 30 The Bible says, and cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. I want you to look at one more. The Gospel of Mark. The Gospel of Mark, chapter 9. And verse forty eight. Again, speaking of this place, he calls hell fire in verse 47, verse 48: where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. And that's just a small portion of what the Lord had to say about a place called hell. Obviously, Jesus believed in a literal hell and spoke of it. And if you're going to believe anything, and if you're going to put your hope in anything, or you're going to count on anything, count on what the Lord Jesus Himself said and taught, because He did not err. in his teaching. Jesus said there was a hell. I want to give you four or five thoughts here this morning about this place called hell. Number one, if you're making notes, I want you to note this it exists. It is a literal place. Luke chapter 16, we've read it here, is not a parable. Oftentimes the Lord would do that. He would speak in a parable. You say, what's a parable? A parable was just an earthly story with heavenly teaching. It might have had a foundation in something that was happening, but it was a story. It was something that was meant to illustrate a truth. When Jesus spoke in Luke 16 about the rich man in Lazarus, he's not speaking in parables. He's describing a literal event that was perhaps in that congregation were men and women who knew who Lazarus was. Perhaps there were men and women in that congregation who knew who the rich man was. This was something they were familiar with, Jesus knowing all things. would use this example and this illustration and say, hey, this is what happened when the rich man died, and this is what happened when Lazarus died. And what you can't see, I'm going to explain to you, because I can see what's happening then. Even now. And Jesus said, hell's a real place. It it literally exists. You'll notice in verse 23 these sober words And in hell he lifts up his eyes. When that man closed his eyes on earth He opened his eyes in hell. When he shut his eyes in earth, oh it talks about how he fared, and don't put a whole lot of Undue emphasis on the temporary estate of either man. Because it really doesn't matter that the man was rich, and it really doesn't matter that one man was poor. What matters is where they went for eternity. And the reality is this morning we put a whole lot of stock in So many things that don't really matter. Sometimes we think, well, I've achieved this position, or I've got this status, or I have these finances, or I've accomplished this. And I want you to know in light of eternity, none of that matters. What matters in this life is where you're going in the next. What is important this morning is not where you live today, but where will you live for all of eternity. And here, when the rich man died, he lifted up his eyes in hell. A literal place. We know that the Lord Jesus spoke of it as a literal place. You know, it's interesting to me that the things that make us uncomfortable, we often want to sort of weaken them by saying, well, they're just allegorical, or they're spiritual. But what Jesus said, he said, when that man died, he didn't cease to be, he wasn't annihilated. He didn't become an angel and float away. He didn't become a cloud or a raindrop or a cricket or a grasshopper. He didn't become anything else. He opened his eyes in a place called hell. A literal place. Do you realize this morning that there is a literal place called hell? Now we take joy in saying there's a place called heaven We often want to comfort ourselves by the reality that for a person who's born again and saved by the grace of God, who knows Jesus as their personal Savior, that to be absent from the body, present with the Lord That's a reality. It's a literal place. Heaven's as real as as Elton, Maryland, and a whole lot better But hell is as real. If heaven is real, tell me why do we have trouble believing that hell is real? Hell is a literal place. It is a place that Jesus spoke of in terms literally, and not only that, but the scriptures speak of the literal place called hell. And study your Bible. Your Bible is not silent on this. The Bible speaks very loudly and plainly and pointedly and says, there is a place called hell. Hell is a literal place. It exists. All of those that mock it and scoff at it Call it old fashioned or ignorant or whatever term of derision they choose to use to describe hell itself or those that believe in it Does not change the fact that it's real. Anybody here like to go to the dentist? I'm glad to be among sane people. I I I dislike the dentist more than anything I have to do. There's a whole lot of procedures I'd rather have than go to the dentist. And I remember the dentist saying to me one time, he could tell I was a little worked up over what he was going to do. And he said, go to your happy place. Now I'd never heard that term before. Go to your happy place. I said, if I go to my happy place, I'm getting up out of this chair, get me a fishing pole, and I'm going to the creek somewhere and catch me a fish. That's my happy place. Oh no. I I said, what do you mean? And he said, open your eyes and look up. And and they had a screen up on the on the ceiling, and it was playing all of these peaceful things And it would, you know, these scenes and all this of water flowing and all the butterflies flying around. He said, now just imagine you're there. I have a problem disconnecting from reality. And the truth of the matter is, no matter how hard I tried to imagine that I was walking that field. chasing that butterfly, listening to that scream, I still could feel that needle jamming in my jaw and that Joker pulling on my tooth trying to get that thing out. I could not escape the reality And I'm telling you, my friend, we can man can mock it and say there's no hell. We can say that there's no God who would even make a place called hell. We can do all of that. But please know this You cannot escape the reality that's found in the pages of God's Word that there is a place called hell that exists. Number two, I want you to notice this morning: not only does hell exist, it exists, but it's eternal. Hell is eternal. There's no end to hell. Everything I read in the Bible speaks very loudly, plainly, and clearly that there is a place called hell. Here's a man who had five brothers and said, I'm here. And my brothers are coming here. That means he was going to still be there when they got there. He understood that hell is an eternal place. Would you look at a few verses with me? Would you go back to the Gospel of Matthew and look at Matthew chapter 25 and Verse forty one Matthew 25 and verse 41. Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed. In the what's that word? Everlasting fire prepared for the devil and his angels. Please know this, God never exaggerates. There's no embellishment with the Lord. Now we may speak, and man may speak with embellishment, and man may speak with exaggeration, but God speaks with accuracy. And the only way that the Bible describes this fire that burns in hell and the reality of hell is he says it's everlasting fire, meaning it'll never end. It's eternal. Look with me in the Revelation. Revelation 14. Go all the way to the back of the New Testament and look at Revelation 14. Two verses I want you to see here, verse ten and verse eleven. Revelation 14, verse 10, verse 11 says, The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation. And he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever. And they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast in his image and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name. You see that? Forever and ever. Forever and ever is not just words written in a fairy tale. You know those fairy tales, they lived happily ever after. That's all it is, is a fairy tale. But when the Bible says forever and ever, and the Bible says everlasting fire, know this, it means there's no end to it. It's eternal. One more place, please, Revelation 20. Revelation twenty and verse ten The Bible says, and the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are. And shall be tormented day and night forever and ever. Folks, the solemn reality is this: hell's eternal. Just as the saved look forward to spending forever and ever and ever and ever. Do you know the beauty of that thing is that after we've been in a heaven a billion years, we hadn't even got started. 2 billion, 10 billion, it don't matter. Add up the numbers because it it it it it'll just be the beginning of beginnings and it'll go on and on and on But the other side of that truth is that those in hell will forever and ever and ever and ever and ever be in torment. That's what the Bible teaches. The Bible says hell is eternal. Quickly, let me say this. Number three, hell has no exits There's no exits in hell. You'll notice in Luke 16, the Bible says there's a great gulf. In verse 26, there's a great gulf fixed, so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot, neither can they pass to us that would come from thence. There's no way out. And when the rich man said, Send someone to my brothers, you notice that he didn't ask if he could go? He didn't ask if he could go. He understood that there were no exits. Religion has used hell as a means of gain. And I'll tell you, that's from hell. When when religion would say, I I remember preaching a funeral one time with a man who had gotten converted in the last few months of his life. And he had been raised in a Roman Catholic background, and they they worked it in somehow for me to be able to speak after the priest got through. And during the gathering of the family, the priest spoke to the family about their giving to the church so they could pray enough prayers to get that man out of purgatory. And somehow or another rescue him. And I was so infuriated by that. Because here are broken-hearted people who are being blindly led by religion. And and and and trying to get gain out of something that's not true and something that's not real and And God helped me and gave me great boldness to say, you know something? This dear man trusted the Lord Jesus Christ. Give your money if you wish, but it's not needed, because Jesus bought him without price. Paid his soul, paid for his soul, bought him with the precious blood. And I'm saying to you this morning that hell has no exits. There's no the hell is eternal, as the scripture says, and then there are no exits. There's no end to this thing called hell. People in it this rich man, what we don't know his name, we don't need to know his name. But whatever his name was, he's still there. He's still there. And a million years from today, he'll still be there. Because hell has no exits. There's no way to get out. There's no way to escape. Hell has no exits. Oh, friend, please hear the word of God. No wonder the pleading of the Lord was so strong as he spoke of eternal things. Because the reality is, once you die, your fate is sealed. Once you leave this earth, there's no opportunity to redo. Oh, there are a lot of things I wish were true that I know they're not because the Bible says they're not. Oh, what a what a thing it would be to get a chance to live again and do it over and know what you once knew and come back. People say, well that individual's an old soul. You know what they're saying? They're saying he's reincarnated and he's lived before and now he's living again, he's got more knowledge. And I've got news for you. The Bible says that man for man it's appointed unto man wants to die, and after this the judgment. My life is but a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. The fact of the matter is that once a person dies, they enter in To a place of eternity where there are no exits. There's no exits in heaven, there's no exits in hell, and there's no end to either. Number four, I want you to notice this: hell is engulfed in darkness. The Bible says men love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. And it's it's as if God grants them their wish in hell. He gives them what they desire, darkness. I don't believe this is figurative. I believe it is literal. We've already read Matthew 25, 30, where he talked about being cast into outer darkness. A darkness that we don't know anything about on this earth. I read recently of a man who explored a cave. And as he went further, he was several miles down into the earth. And as he traveled and went under the earth and was deep, deep down, he said he turned his light off just to see what it would be like. And he said it was a, and this is what got my attention, a suffocating darkness. At least at night there's still the moon and the stars. There's all sorts of residual light that we're exposed to. If you've ever been in a wilderness area, I remember the first time we went to Cape Britain and I was moose hunting up there and and sleeping in a tent and I'd come out one night and We're miles and miles and miles away from anything or anyone, and you look up and you're like, man, I can't see all those stars from my house. It wasn't that I was any closer. It was that things were just clearer because of the darkness. But yet there was not complete darkness. In hell, there's an engulfing in darkness. Again, the absence of God and the absence of light. There's going to be a darkness. Listen to what Jude said in his little letter in verse number 13. He calls these individuals raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame, wandering stars, to whom is reserved the blackness of darkness forever. The blackness of darkness forever. My friend, don't sit here and believe the devil's lie. Hell will not be a party. I was visiting one time with a gentleman and some boys were loading up their snowmobiles to go have a fun weekend, and they had to pick up bed of their truck. level with cases of beer. And I remember Brother Cameron saying to those young men, he said, young men, any one of you could very easily go to eternity this weekend. He said you got machines powerful enough and booze intoxicating enough that you could do the unthinkable and one of you, or maybe all of you, not come back. And they laughed and said, We'll just take up our party in hell. And I remember Brother Cameron pointing that finger in that boy's face, and he said, Young man. Perhaps God sent me here to warn you. There are no parties in hell. There are no friends in hell. There's no familiar faces in hell. There's no enjoyment in hell. Hell is a place engulfed in darkness. But not only that, as we read on, we find out it is a place number five of excruciating pain. Listen to that rich man cry out. I'm tormented in this flame. Mark 9:48 says, the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. And I'm not going to attempt to embellish, I can't. How can you describe the reality of the suffering and the pain in a place called hell? But if you will take what the Bible says and understand this, that whatever is in hell, it's awful, extremely, excruciatingly painful. He said, I'm in torments. I'm suffering in a way I've never suffered before. And by the way, people in hell are not suffering for their sin, they're suffering because of sin. Oh, you say, well, surely there's an end to it. Surely. And if yes, if man was suffering for sin in a place called hell, there would be an end to it, because there'd be a payment, there would be a place where it would complete. But they're not suffering for their sin in hell. They're suffering because of their sin. Sin has landed them there. And here is the sin that takes every man to hell. Or you say, preacher, it must be drunkenness. No, it's not drunkenness. Oh, preacher, it must be adultery. No, it's not adultery. Oh, it must be lying and stealing and cheating. No, none of those things are sins that take you to hell. Here's the sin that takes you to hell: rejecting the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior. To refuse the gift of eternal life that he so freely wishes to give. Hell is a place of excruciating pain. Can you can you imagine just Try to consider for a moment a place of complete darkness, a complete a place of uh of excruciating pain. That's hell. And again, these are not figurative, these are literal descriptions, and this man's crying out, he's in torment, and I believe one of the great torments of hell will be your memory. This man had a memory in hell. I don't know how to say this other than just say it. I don't believe Alzheimer's exists in hell. I don't believe there's and listen, there there is some bliss in things being blotted out of your memory. We ought to thank God for the things that God will help you forget. But the reality is in hell there's no loss of memory. The Lord said to that man, Remember, remember in your lifetime? Remember what it is that you've lived through. Remember how you enjoyed all those good things? And listen, it was not the good things that sent him to hell. That wasn't the point, but he said, Do you remember it? Do you remember what it was like? Sure he will. And one of the tragedies, one of the excruciatingly painful things about hell is you're going to remember the chance you had to be saved. I believe we're going to remember there there's going to be people who will remember the the mercy that was extended, the opportunity, the laughing and the mocking and the joking about hell. They're going to remember how they laughed off the gospel and how they turned away an opportunity. They're going to remember the reality that I didn't have to come here. How tormenting is that going to be to have that memory? I want to say one last thing. Yes, hell exists. And yes, the Bible says hell's eternal. And yes, we know there are no exits. And it's engulfed in darkness. And it's excruciatingly painful. But please hear this. If you've heard nothing else, please hear this. It can only be escaped in this life. This life. This moment. Listen to what the man said about his brothers back in Luke 16 and verse 27. He said, I pray thee, therefore, Father. That thou wouldst send him to my father's house. For I have five brethren, five brothers that were still alive, five brothers that were still breathing air. That he may testify unto them lest they also come into this place of torment. And Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets. That's another way of saying they've got the Old Testament. They have the Old Testament. They have those scriptures. You say, is the Old Testament enough to be saved by? You better believe it. It's all inspired by God, is it not? All scriptures give them inspiration. I I know some from some dear Jewish people that after reading Isaiah 53 had their eyes open and trusted in Jesus Christ and got born again. Listen, he said they've got Moses and the prophets And he said, Nay, Father Abraham, but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent. And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead. You know what he very soberly said, if they won't hear the Scripture, they'll not hear a spirit They'll not hear somebody who comes back from the dead. If they won't listen, and I'm saying to you this morning, there might be someone sitting here in the same boat. You're waiting on something miraculous, something that that's that you can't describe or explain, and you're saying, oh, if I could just see that or if this could just happen. And I've got news for you. Hear the scriptures, they alone will bring salvation to your soul. Hear the word of God, hear what the Bible says, and you'll notice what he said here. He said that they'll repent. They'll repent And our Lord said, if they won't hear the scriptures, they won't repent. In John chapter 3, Jesus said this. I want you to hear his words. Jesus said in John chapter number 3, verse 3: Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He that believeth on him is not condemned. But he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. Will you hear the message this morning? Will you hear the scriptures cry out to you? Don't go to hell? Will you hear the warning? Will you hear the warning? The warning is, hey, there's a hell to shun. There's a hell ahead. You're on a path. Listen, there's a broad road that leads to destruction. And there's many on that path. There's many walking that road. There's many going that way. There may be many in this building. I'm not talking about your membership. I'm not talking about your water baptism. I'm not talking about your religious exercises. You can do all of that and still go to hell. All of the things that we identify with Christianity, apart from Jesus Christ, are not powerful enough to save us from sin. Hear the warning of Scripture. The Scripture's crying out, don't go to hell. It's a place of eternal suffering. It's a real place. It's a place where lost people go. Don't go there. You don't have to. There's a way to escape. And let me say this: the way is not through a code or a series or a maze. The way is through the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And like Moses, you know, Moses took a serpent because the people had sinned, and he put him on a brass pole, and he walked among the people, and here's what he said, look and live. Everybody who was bit by the serpent was dying. It was certain they were to die. It was as if they were, I mean, you think of the most poisonous Serpent there is, and some of them you've just got but a moment of time before you die, after they strike. And here these people are dying. And he says, now look at him. Look at that serpent on that brass pole. Look at him and you'll live. And everybody who looked lived. There wasn't a person lost who looked and they lived. There wasn't a person died from their bite. Oh, they've been bitten, all right, but they didn't die because they looked. And I've got news for you. The Bible says, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. He wasn't lifted up on a brass pole, but he was lifted up on an old rugged cross. And he was lifted up between heaven and earth and became sin for you. God poured his wrath out on the very Son of God. God punish Jesus in your place. God put all of your sin on him. And my friend, everybody who looks to him Everybody who looks to him, I'm not talking about looking at an emblem or looking at some sort of uh uh some sort of mystical illusion. I'm talking about in your heart of faith. Saying, Lord Jesus, I believe what you did on the cross, you did on my behalf. You died for my sin, you were buried, and you rose again the third day Everybody that looks to him by faith is saved. Oh, we've all been bitten by the serpent of sin. Everybody here is a sinner, including this preacher. Every one of us have broken the law of God and have fallen short of his glory. Every one of us deserves already to be in hell. But God's made a way for me to escape. He's made a way for you to escape, and that way 's Jesus. It's not a Baptist way or a Methodist way or a Presbyterian way. or any other way, it's Jesus. He's the way. He's the truth. He's the life. He's the escape. Listen, my friend, you've got to look to him and you will live. Some of you are saved here this morning, and you can go to a time, a place when you look to Jesus. You didn't look to your religion, you didn't look to your profession. You didn't look to all your goodness and all your morality, you just simply look to Jesus. And when you look by faith, you've started to live You got born again from above. You were saved at that moment. And you're saved today. And you'll be saved for all of eternity because Jesus Christ saves us effectively and he saves us eternally. Now, friend, where are you at? Have you looked? Have you looked by faith? You notice he said repent. You say, what does that mean? That simply means you admit you're wrong, God's right. And sometimes that's the biggest hurdle. Every man is right or good in his own eyes. I'm all right, preacher. Some of you might be sitting here listening at this week at the broadcast, and you're saying, I don't know who he's talking about, but he sure ain't talking about me. Because I'm okay. I'm good. My wife has a family member, and I remember talking to him, and he said this to me. He said, me and God have a deal. I said, really? I said, tell me about it. And he commenced to tell me about this deal. And I had to remind him, I said, sir, listen, there's no deal struck with God. The only deal is the covenant God made with His Son on a hill called Calvary. And the only way for you to be saved is to come by faith in what Jesus did. And my friend, listen, there's no deal making with the Lord. See, the Bible speaks to every man. The Bible speaks to all of us. The old preachers in Nova Scotia used to say, we're all in a boat and she's sinking fast. We're all in the same boat. Everybody here is the same boat. The only difference is, the only difference is some have gotten in the lifeboat. Some know the Lord Jesus as their personal Savior. Now let me ask you, where are you? Are you are you look have you looked? Have you looked? Do you can you take can you say, look, I I may not remember the exact time, but I can take you to the place. I can take you to the place that I looked and I lived. I can take you to that spot where I met the Lord. I can take you to that place Where where where I first looked by faith and believed on Jesus Christ and acknowledged my sin and He as the Savior and God saved me by His grace, friend, if you don't have that, you need that now because You're like these five brothers. You're heading to this place where the rich man is. And whether you're rich or poor or whatever it may be, religious or not religious, the reality is you're headed to hell just as sure as this day's the Lord's day. And my dear friend, you don't have to go. Here's the opportunity. Today's the day of salvation You can be saved in a moment of time. Preacher, I got to work on it. You don't have to work on nothing. Jesus paid it all. The Bible declares these powerful words. It is finished. You can pillow your head on the finished work of Jesus and thank God for salvation from your sin. The question is not can you? The question is will you? Will you? Will you be saved? Will you turn to Him? My friend, please know this. Hell is real, but so is God's salvation. Some friends of ours back home, the primitive quartet, they sing this song. The only fire I'll ever feel is burning in my heart. When God saved us, if you're saved, when God saved you , He took the fear of death away because hell's not out there waiting on you. And the only fire you're ever going to feel is that fire of love for the Lord Jesus Christ for what he's done on your behalf. Now, friend, my question is very simple this morning. Are you saved? Are you saved? Have you believed on the Lord Jesus Christ and been born again? You can be. You can be today. Oh, but preacher, I hear someone say, but I I couldn't kneel. You know, maybe a decade ago I couldn't understand that. I get some of this stuff now. There's no way I could get on my knees. I'm glad God saved a man, whether he's on his knees or on his back. Or sitting in a seat, it's not the posture of your body. It's the condition of your heart. In the attitude of your heart. Whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. A man can cry out from any position. But the only man who cries out is in the position of knowing I'm lost and I need to be saved. Is that you? Call on him. Call on him while you can. You still have breath, there's hope. You there's still a desire. You say, Preacher, I I don't want to go to a place called hell. There's still I people say, well I met a man one time, he said, I'm reprobate. God's cut me off. And as I talked to that man, he feared hell. He feared the reality. And I said, sir, you're not cut off. If you were cut off, you'd have no interest whatsoever. You'd go your merry way to hell and enjoy it. He's troubled. You're troubled about your soul? Are you troubled about where you'll be in eternity? You'll be somewhere. You'll be somewhere. Every one of us will be somewhere, either in heaven or hell. What you do with Jesus will determine where you spend eternity. As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. Even to them that believe on his name. Reject Him, you do so to your own peril. Hell awaits those who reject Christ. Dear friend, the Bible talks about hell, and we need to believe what it says. And dear brother, sister, you say, well, I'm saved, preacher. I'm glad I don't have to fear that. Can I ask you what about people around you who aren't? The only reason we're here is to glorify God. And how do we glorify God? Point others to Him. Tell them there's a way. God's given you an assignment. You're on a post. And until he takes you out of here, you've got a job to do. Whatever it is you do for an occupation is irrelevant compared to this. Because your calling is to point men to Jesus. Jesus saves. May God speak to us. Would you stand with bowed heads?