And we're going to read one verse, and I want to highlight about six words in that one verse. The eighty-sixth Psalm And the verse is verse number 11. Psalm 86 and 11 says, Teach me thy way, O Lord. I will walk in thy truth. Here's the phrase I want you to see, please. Unite my heart to fear thy name. Unite my heart to fear thy name. Father, as we bow before you this evening, we ask that you would help us just now. And Lord, I'm very much aware that What is needed in this congregation before me is as varied as the faces. And I'm unable, have nothing to give. But to come to you, Father. And I pray in mercy you would send from heaven what's needed for every person in this place. Would you do thy work in every heart? We'll give you the glory. For Lord, our eyes are upon thee. And we pray in Jesus' name in God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. This morning it was in my heart to give you a principle. And that principle is due all to the glory of God. Now, this evening it is in my heart to give you a prayer. And that prayer is simply these words: Unite my heart to fear thy name. Now, Bible prayers are effective prayers. You say, preacher, how do you know they're effective prayers? Well, number one, they're divinely inspired. Anything God breathed has God's power. And so Bible prayers are divinely inspired. But not only that, but they are directed by the Spirit of God. The prayers that we find recorded in the Word of God, they're directed by Him. He is the one who brought forth these prayers for you and I to understand them and to know them. But I believe Bible prayers are effective because they also address definite needs. Now I want to give you this Bible prayer not to be used as a vain repetition. Our Lord warned us. Did he not? Our Lord warned us in the Bible. In giving that model prayer, he warned us about vain repetition. He said the heathen, they they use vain repetition, and they do so because they believe They will be heard by their much speaking. That the multitudes of words carry weight. Listen to me. Sometimes all your prayer is, is just a mere groan. That's about all you can get out. Sometimes you can't formulate a sentence or even string three words together, but there is a God in heaven who knows and who hears and who understands. Thank God for the Spirit of God who makes intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. A mere groan, God's way will do more than an eloquent, repetitious, vain, long prayer that's laid out beautifully. He says, in these words, you're not my heart to fear thy name. Although we don't want to use Bible prayers as vain repetition and repeat them over And over and over carelessly and ceaselessly, we can use them for spiritual ammunition and spiritual education. Because these prayers are here for you and I to learn. The Bible says all the things that are written aforetime were written for our admonition and for our learning. And so they're there, so I'll know how and what to pray. And I want you to see something in this prayer. I want you to see three things of the Lord helping us here this evening. And I trust we'll make this prayer a basis of our prayer in the new year. As we are here on the first Lord's Day of 2024 , we've talked about the principle, and it's critical that we do all to the glory of God. Now, let's get down to the prayer. And outside of living by principle, there's nothing more important than living by prayer. And so note the prayer again, unite my heart to fear thy name. What's in this prayer? Number one, there is an honest confession. That's what's here. The psalmist David is making a confession. You say I don't see a confession in that. It's an underlying thing here because David is making a confession. He's saying, Unite my heart. Can I ask you a question? What sort of heart needs uniting? A divided heart. A heart that's torn. A heart that's that's pulled in two ways. And David says, Lord, unite my heart. He's acknowledging, he's confessing, he's honestly admitting before the Lord. Listen, one of the great challenges every one of us face is not telling God what we need to, but oftentimes we tell God what we think he wants to hear. And we pray from the point of view that says, now, Lord, I know you want me to say this, but but perhaps it's not the true condition of our heart or the true expression of our heart And here David makes an honest confession and acknowledges an underlying problem. He said, My heart's divided. Lord, unite it. Just unite it. James reminds us that a double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. James chapter one, verse number eight. A heart that's pulled in two directions. A heart that's divided between two allegiances. A heart that's struggling with this direction, that direction. Which way do I go? The underlying problem is a man is that all men, all men, often have to deal with a divided heart. For you and I to say, well, my heart is never divided, is to lie before God. Because often our hearts are pulled hither and yon. Our hearts are pulled in the way we want to go, and the heart is pulled in the way God wants to go. It's an underlying problem that we all must acknowledge. And here David confesses it honestly and bears his heart and says, God, please unite my heart. My heart is a divided heart. And Lord, unite it, please. Here's an undeniable reality in this same truth is that living in me are two natures. If you're saved by the grace of God, you have two natures living inside of you. You're literally, you're literally in that battle. between two opposing forces, two natures. Somebody says, well, my old nature, I have a good friend. Well he's in heaven now. He knows better now. But I had a good friend who lived on this earth, and he used to tell me, preacher, my he'd tell me the date that he got his old nature eradicated. And I was thinking of him the other day for some reason. And uh I was thinking when he was around, I uh Joe probably remembers him maybe a little bit. Josiah was little Joe, he was big Joe. He was And that was his name. And uh I remember him getting real mad. I should have brought, I didn't even think to bring it up. Maybe the Lord took that out of my mind. But we were doing something there at the church, and I saw his old nature. I don't know what he called it, but his old nature came out when he got frustrated, and it was as as visible as the noonday sun. I'm telling you, you've got two natures in you if you're born again. Here's what Paul said, and I'll believe him any day over anybody. Romans chapter 7, verse 21. When I would do good. Evil is present with me. When I would do good, evil is present with me. In you and in me, if you're saved by the grace of God, is a new man and an old man. And that new man's as real as the old man, but that old man's as real as the new man. And there's a war, and that's where the division comes, and that's where the divided heart occurs because there's a battle between the natures. That's an undeniable reality. And every honest Christian Every honest Christian who would acknowledge their daily experience would say, Preacher, there is a war that often rages inside of me. It's a battle. There's a divided heart betimes. So it's an undeniable reality. But I love this part of his honest confession. Unite in my heart, unite my heart to fear thy name. There's an unignorable request. Here is a request that David makes that God cannot ignore. God cannot ignore this request because He 's made some promises to us. He's made some promises to us like call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. He can't ignore this request because he said, ask and ye shall receive. He cannot deny this request simply because He's attached his person to his promises, and to violate a promise would be an invalidation of his person, and pardon the bad English, but that ain't going to happen. God's going to stand true to his word. And I can say by the grace of God that he will not ignore this request. I read in Acts chapter 13, verse 22, that David got, here's what God said about David: David is a man after mine own heart. You know why he was a man after God's own heart? Because he made a request for his heart to be united to fear thy name. It's an honest confession. David was a great man because God answered David's prayer. And God united his heart to fear his name. So notice the honest confession, but quickly notice number two, an earnest petition. He brings it as an earnest petition. This is no now I laid me down to sleep. I pray the Lord my soul to keep. This is no little children's nursery rhyme or some little uh little thing that is committed to memory that that somehow loses meaning at as it's repeated. Our prayers can often be so silly. I'm thinking of one now, but it's so silly I won't even repeat it. But it's we often pray things that are so frivolous in nature. This isn't what this is. This is earnest petition. I'm reminded what James said about the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. If you get down to business with God in prayer, He'll get down to business with you in your life. If you get dead earnest about prayer, The Rochesters, a sweet dear family from South Carolina, I believe Inman, South Carolina is where they're from. And uh the old Rochesters are the ones I'm I'm thinking of. I think there's three branches of them now. But the the original Rochester family, they used to sing a song, and Ben, I think Rochester, before he was married, wrote, A song about one of his children, or one of the children in the Rochester family who had gotten sick, and how the daddy really prayed earnestly for God to heal. And said God convicted his heart about when was the last time he prayed for a lost person that earnest? And when was the last time he had prayed about other things that earnestly? You know, there are some things that will drive you to serious business on your knees before God. And there are things that will come your way, it may be a physical or a financial or a a personal thing, but it it it'll it'll make you pray a prayer that you mean business when you pray it And that's the kind of praying that gets answered. And that's the kind of praying that David is doing in this text. He's praying, oh, unite my heart to fear thy name. Well, what's in this petition? What's in this earnest petition? Well, I believe number one, there's an understanding. David had an understanding. What was the understanding? That his heart was the problem. One old writer said this: all my problems are heart problems. That's true. You know, a lot of times all we do is try to put band-aids on cancer. Rather than cutting it out. Spiritually speaking. This this talk about my friend that that had his old nature eradicated supposedly. His wife used to say this every time she left church. You stepped on my toes today. You stepped on my toes today. And the way she said it, she almost, I didn't know if she was glad or mad or What the deal was, but she'd always say, you stepped on my toes. One day she said, you tap danced on my toes. I don't dance. Praying knee and a dancing foot won't grow on the same leg. In my humble opinion. But I got to thinking about that and I thought, you know, I ought to preach a little higher. I ought to aim for something more than their feet. Or to shoot for the heart. Because the problem is not so much what we always deem to be the problem. You know, a lot of our preaching and a lot of our uh Teaching even addresses the symptoms rather than getting down to the sickness. And we're dealing with all of the peripheral rather than getting right down to the heart of the matter I believe that all of our problems are heart problems. And all of our needs are heart needs. And when our our problem or whatever the situation is, the solution can be found in the heart. And David had an understanding that his heart was the problem. And he prayed, Lord Unite my heart. My heart needs fixed. I love what he said later on in a psalm. He said, My heart is fixed, O God. I will sing praise to thee. My heart is fixed. God had heard his plea and come to the rescue and ministered his heart. Do you know when the heart gets right, everything else gets right? You often want to address things and say, well, you know, some sometimes people say, You ought to preach about this, and we need to deal with that, and you ought to address that. Listen, you just get the heart straightened out and all those other things will take care of themselves. Because the problem is a heart problem. I see not only an understanding, but I see in this earnest petition a union. Here's what he says, unite. That means weld together, fixed together. Bring bring us to such a union that they're one. It's a word often used to describe the joining of a man to a woman in marriage. It's the making of one. And watch this. What David is saying, Lord, make my heart one with yours. I'll tell you why we have sin in the world, is because our hearts are at odds with the Lord. We don't have the heart of God. We've lost that in the fall of man. And because our hearts are out of order, everything else is out of order. I know some of you sitting here have heart problems. Maybe you have arrhythmia or you have other issues with your heart. And how many of you can testify it affects everything in your body? Huh? It affects everything in your body, whether it's your breathing or whether it's your ability to uh to exercise or look, everything it it affects your appetite It affects everything about you. And so we see here there's a union David prayed about. He said, Lord, unite my heart. I want my heart to be so much like your heart that the two can't be told apart. You want a heart like that? Do you need a heart like that? A heart that says, Lord, I want my heart to be You remember when we had old bench seats and cars? Some of you are old enough. I the snow on the chimney tells the truth. And you rode in those cars. You remember what people did when they when they were married? And and and they would they would sit in that car And buddy, they'd sit just as near together, and you're driving behind them, you couldn't tell is there one person, one big person, or is there two in that car? Some of us were small enough back in those days we didn't even make one good big person sitting close together Well, that's a union. But I'm talking about something that's that's not just in appearance in union. I'm talking about something that's organic in union. A union that's just that that's as real as as taking two pieces of metal and welding them together and even better. A union, my friend, that God wants to take place in all of our hearts. He wants to unite our hearts to his. He wants me to have a heart like his heart. And all the problems in my life are often because my heart is not united to his heart. I'm going this way with a divided heart. He's going that way. And the friction is my heart's divided from the Lord. But here's the answer. God unite my heart. Unite my heart. It's a union, the two coming together, the joining of purposes. Then I want you to see in this earnest petition, not only an understanding , And a union, but something that is unquestionable. Something that you and I can look at and say, There's no doubt about this And it's simply this that I need God to change my heart. That I can't change my heart. I think we have diluted Christianity to the place That we we think that we can fix our problems. You know what that is? That's Christianized humanism. We throw Jesus into the mix and say, we'll hold on to him like some rabbit's foot or lucky charm and we'll take care of the problem. I've got news for you. There's things you can't fix. There's things you can't change. There's something in your heart that unless God in heaven does it, it will not get done. Christianity is not about gritting your teeth and grinding through and pushing on and trying hard. It's about recognizing that I need a new heart. I love this passage in Ezekiel thirty-six. It's verse number 26. And it says, A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you. And I will take the s away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you an heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and ye shall keep my judgments and do them. That's the Lord's doing. That's what we need from Him. Church, listen, you you and I can make all the resolves. Can I ask you something? How you doing on your New Year's resolution? Some by some of you said on New Year's, I'm going to eat better. I resolved to eat better. I've come to the conclusion my problem is I belong to this church. And as long as I belong to this church and am loved by these people, I am never going to be under 200 and none of your business. Amen. I've surrendered to that. I'm doing good, and some of us say, preacher, I made something for you. And it's never Weight Watchers approved. Mm-mm. It's and and and it looks to say now if you eat just a little it won't hurt you. Well how do you eat just a little of some of this stuff? And they make a boat. I'm like, at least cut it in half. I mean let me have half of it. Because here's what I know in my house. If I don't eat half, Junior will eat the other half. So I better get my half before he gets his half And I've determined I'm going to get my half. But I digress. You can make all the resolutions. You can say, I'm going to do better. I'm going to straighten up I'm going to fix this. I'm going to change this. And the next thing you know, you face down on the dirt saying, Look what a mess I made. I'm doing the same thing I said I wouldn't. I'm going the same direction I said I'd stop Here's what I'm trying to tell you, church. You need him to give you a new heart. You need him to give you a new spirit. You need him to change you. The greatest revelation to any Christian is that without me, Jesus said, ye can do nothing. That we need the help of the Lord. I need God to change my heart. You say I'm saved. He's changed it all. He's going to change it. Let me tell you something. That was just the opening of the door. That was just the beginning. You you hadn't seen anything yet. God wants to change your heart. God wants to change it and make it anew. He wants to change you and make you afresh. He wants to transform you and make you into what he would have you to be. And friend, that's a daily process. that he's working on and listen he's going to do that till he takes you home to glory. Now let me close with this. I want to give you the practical implications. What's the outcome of this? What if I pray like this earnestly? If I pray seriously and fervently , If I really mean when I say, Lord, unite my heart to fear thy name, if I make that my daily prayer and I work that in to my pleas before God, what will be the outcome? What will the Lord do? Well, let's start where we were. We'll see a union. A heart change so as to love what he loves. A heart changed so as to hate what he hates. I believe again the reason our Christianity today is so anemic. Is simply because we don't have God's heart on things. We don't have God's heart. You don't learn A love for souls in a 12-step soul-winning program. You don't learn that. You've got to get God's heart. You've got to get God's heart over people that are dying going to hell. You don't learn how to pray from a class on prayer or read a book on prayer. You you don't learn how to be a Christian, how to live for the Lord. Uh I I don't know, Dr. Hitchens may be In the Bible college, you might have had uh Christian principles or Christianity 101 or Something along those lines that would teach the basics of Christianity to young students, and that's good. But you don't learn those things from sitting in a class. And still hear this old preacher say that Bible colleges don't make preachers. And it doesn't It's not a factory where you put something in the back door and the product pops out the other side. Christianity is not like that. We don't bring people into our church and then Put them out the door and all of a sudden just magically sitting here, something happens. There's got to be a change of heart And it's the union of the heart with the heart of God that makes you and I different. You want to get a burden for souls, pray you not, my heart, to fear thy name. You want to get a passion for people who need the Lord, and you want to get an understanding of prayer and how to pray, and you want to become more like the Lord Jesus in your uh character and your daily walk and life. Listen Pray, unite my heart to fear thy name. That union is required. God must do that work deep within our hearts. The remedy for all of our problems starts in the heart. And that's where God said he would work. That's where God saved a word. I think sometimes we put such emphasis on the external That we create just mere characters of Christians without the nature of Jesus Christ. I've said it, I'll continue to say it. You could train a monkey to do what most Christians do. You can train just about anything to go through the motion and go through the form and the function. But yet, where's the power? Where's the change in life? Where's the transformation of heart? Look, that takes God. And God working in a heart and making that heart what it ought to be. Do you know something? You can't manufacture worship. That's what we're trying to do today. You can't manufacture worship. Why The buzzwade is atmosphere. Set the atmosphere. You know what that means? Get the lighting right. Get the temperature right. Get the spirit right , i. e. get it right by certain particular music that moves. How many of you know music moves you? We're emotional creatures. Joe was reminding me we had a a beagle dog and if that thing heard certain music, that crazy dog would start to And he would. And I looked it up, and and it has something to do, it corresponds with something in their bodies, and only certain dogs, certain breeds of dogs especially. will will have that ability and it corresponds with some sort of chemical and it changes and they react to it. And I'll never forget, I thought, man, j we were working in the garage and and we were trying to get a radio to work and It landed on this station and we were listening to something and Joe said, look at that dog. And we both looked at him. I thought, that thing's got the spirit. It's got a spirit. And I'll tell you the way it's acting, it wasn't the Holy Spirit. By the way, it was a beagle. So beware. I think all of them have spirits. But you know something? Music moves us. And men know how to manipulate. Look, if in a restaurant, they know what kind of music to play to make you slow down, eat more, stay and spend your money. Huh? That's that's facts. That's what they do. They also know what music to play to make you eat faster, to get out so they can get more in. And they adjust that sort of thing all the time. That's a common thing among the trades that people know what music to play. Why do you think when you go in a grocery store? That to me it's annoying, that annoying grocery store music. I don't know if you play that anymore, but they play, you know, slow classical music. Just just waltz through here. Get something off the shelf here and there. Spend all your money. Leave four. Your cart 's full, but your wallet's empty. We're affected by that. And we bring that in our local church and we call that a work of God. I'm here to tell you, my friend, worship cannot be manufactured, not true worship. There might be a moving of emotion, there might be shedding of tears, there may be feelings of elation, but there's no worship of God in spirit and in truth. But my friend, let God do something in the heart. Let the God of heaven bring a sense of awe and of reverence over the person of the Lord Jesus Christ, and what will pour forth out of that heart will not be the mixture of this world's a form of worship that will be pure and holy worship that rises up in the nostrils of God and makes him say, I'm well pleased. Oh beloved, listen, there's a union that takes place. A united heart makes everything else fall in place. And then there's an unction. I'm talking about the outcome of this prayer. In 1 John 2 20, the Bible says you've received an unction from the Holy One. And ye know all things. There is an enablement of understanding When the Lord answers this prayer. What do I understand? What is it that this unction teaches me? Here's what it teaches me. Without me. You can do nothing. That's just what it teaches you. You know what you've come to the realization of? Lord, if you don't help me, I can't do it. I think the greatest lesson the Lord tries to teach us all. One of the brothers this morning said in in Sunday school, he said, I'm learning. I like that language. That's the language of somebody who's in the school of whatever it is they're learning. Because we never graduate until we get promoted to glory. And we're still learning. Always learn. But there's an initial learning of this lesson. There's an initial Teaching of this lesson that's got to come in our lives, and oftentimes it's painful. When we learn, Lord, I can't do it without you. I've learned and or should say I'm learning. But I initially had to learn this a very hard way. Do you know there's a lot of things you can do naturally that you can use spiritually, but it's of none effect? There's things you can do naturally. I think a person could naturally preach, but it not be a spiritual exercise unless God's in it. Personality or whatever can carry somebody so far As a twenty-year-old young man, I remember preaching and pastoring a church and six months in it split. I don't know what happens to churches in the north when they split. Well I do, but but I know down south when they split, they blow apart. And I remember that little church blowing apart. And it put me in a tailspin spirit. I'm 20 years old, new family, first church. Don't know in from from one to the other. And it began to affect me not just spiritually but but mentally and emotionally in every way, physically. I remember going through that. And my nerves getting to the place where I I couldn't do anything in public. I'd, my dear wife, what a gracious woman she's been. We'd go to a uh a restaurant and order. And I'd get anxious or whatever it was, and out the door I'd go. She'd sit there, sometimes she'd eat her food, depending on how hungry she was, or she'd get two boxes and bring it out to the car and we'd go home You know in that period of time the only thing I could do is get behind the pulpit and preach. I never miss a service. And I began to understand it and realize that when I was standing here, all that was gone. I didn't have that battle when I was in the pulpit. It's the only place I didn't have that battle, Andy. And and you would think that now prior to it, it was torture. The thought of standing and preaching and all that, there was a battle, a great battle. And I could take you to that place. In Bethel, North Carolina, where on the living room carpet of that little double eye we rented, I was laying on my face and I said, Lord, I don't want to live like this. I can't live like this. I can't go on like this. I can't do it without you. Now I didn't hear a voice. I'll tell you what I did hear. That's what I'm trying to tell you. You can't do it without me. But I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens me. And I often said that it was like God started pouring concrete in my soul. And I don't think that's quite what he did, but he began to put strength back in me. And I began to understand that, listen, what he was trying to teach. He wasn't trying to destroy me. He was just trying to make me lean on him And I'm finding the more I lean on him, the more help he gives. And the more power I find, look, he's real, his power is real And the help of God is what we need. Listen, this unction, what God's doing in my life. Don't fight what he's trying to do. Hear his voice. Let him work. And know that without him you can't do anything. But with him you can do all things that he decrees and declares. And with his help, my friend, God can do wonders. God can do wonders. Man, there's I look in this congregation, there's no telling what God could do. Really? There's no telling what God could do through you if you'll just start leaning on him. And let him unite your heart. Let him unite your heart to fear his name. Let him change your heart. Let him give you a new heart. Hey, when God made a king out of David, he'd give him a new heart. Same thing for Saul. When God made these men and put them in a position, God gave them a new heart, a heart to match what was laid before them to do. It wasn't that David was a great military man or David was a great economic planner or advisor. It wasn't that David was not a man of great charisma. It was the fact that God took David and gave him a heart to be the king of Israel and to do the things he did. Sitting here are men and women that God wants to do something in your life if you'll let him unite your heart to fear his name. If you'll let him change your heart and make your heart into what it ought to be. And then we see the unfolding here, and that unfolding is the outworking of the inworking of God. What God does inside, showing up on the outside. And that was the ministry of the Apostle Paul. Listen to these words, Colossians 1:29. Whereunto I also labor Striving according to his working, which worketh in me mightily. You know what he said? God's doing something in me and it's getting out on the outside of me and God's doing those things all around me. Why? Because God's doing something inside of me. Now God will never do anything with you until He's done something in you And he'll never do anything through you until you let him do what he wants to do with you. God wants to work in art. You know what we want to do? We want to get to the end of the process and have the finished product. Without getting back here and saying, now Lord, do something in my heart. Do something in my heart. When God called me to preach, I was so anxious to do it. I got frustrated because I and I'd say things to my pastor, you know, and and how foolish he would have been to let a knucklehead like me preach And he would at the appropriate times with the appropriate governances around me. But he would often say, wait on God. Or he'd say, settle down. Just let God do something. And I thought, he's backslid. Preacher ain't right with God. He don't want to be he's not excited anymore. Honest. And some of you who who've been called to preach, you know exactly what I'm talking about. And he would I would say, well , what's he doing? What's he doing? You know what I learned? He wanted God to work something in me so he could work something out of me. Folks, until God works something in you, he's not going to work anything out of you. God's work starts in the heart. God's wanting to work in our hearts here this evening. God's wanting to work in your heart, brother, sister. God's wanting to work something in you. And what he works in you, he's going to work through you and then work mightily by you. And God wants to use you. I don't know in what way. Don't be so foolish as to think the only place God can use you is in the real estate behind a pulpit. That's a small work of God. There's so much more. There's works that God wants to do. Look, there's people's lives that you might reach sitting at the break table or on the job next door. In line at the store. I don't know where, but at home. There's a work. There's a work. Most of you have raised your children, some still are. Perhaps the greatest work God could do through some dear mother is in the heart of those children. As she prays and plants truth, prays and plants truth, prays and plants truth. Some of you are the recipients of such. And you're who and what you are today because of that planting and praying. That planting and praying. Some of your grandparents, and there's some planting and praying you can do. There's some planting and praying. It's not the same with as with children. It's a different level, it's a different way, it's a different manner. They're not your children, they're those grandchildren, you know. But the reality is that you can plant and you can pray. You can plant and you can pray. And the working in you God wants to do is to prepare you to do that and to help you to do that. I'm just saying, friend, the unfolding of this is what God does in you, is he's going to do something through you. There's nothing like seeing God do the unbelievable and the unimaginable in your life and heart. Nothing like it. You talk about an adventure. Billy Kelly used to say, I feel like God's pulled me through a knothole backwards. I just use your imagination. You know what it'd be like to be pulled through a knothole backwards? That'd be something. And I'll tell you, living for God like this, there's no telling what tomorrow holds. You think Peter, when he got up on Pentecost morning Knew that he would stand and preach and the Spirit of God would come and thousands would be saved. He didn't know that. God is working in him, so he could work through him. Host of other examples. Think, never dream, God, you're going to do this in me. Listen, friend, God wants to do something in you. I'm not talking about a puny little God who has no power. I'm talking about the God of heaven who emptied the grave on resurrection morning. Who has power over heaven and earth and hell and all that lives in every place. The God of glory, when the sun rises, rises at his command. That God wants to work in you. Through you and by you, all for his glory. Blows me away. What a savior. What a savior. Hey, will you take this prayer up? I've given you a principle I hope you'll make as an aim to live by this year. But would you take this prayer too? Would you take these six little words unite my heart to fear thy name? Would you make it not a vain repetition? Don't, please, please. Don't don't casually and carelessly just say words. But take it up. Make it a part of your spiritual weaponry. Load your prayer gun and fire it heavenward till God rain showers a blessing down. Till he hears and answers your plea, saying, Oh Lord, you've united my heart. You've changed it. You're doing something in my heart. You're making it what it ought to be. Lord, unite my heart to fear thy name. Would you stand with me, please? Could we get our pianists to come quickly and just begin to play? We'll not sing.