To the book of Ruth, chapter number three. Ruth chapter number three And when you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please. We're going to read one verse, verse number 11. Ruth chapter number 3, and verse number 11. Now this is Boaz speaking, and notice what he says. And now, my daughter, fear not. I will do to thee all that thou requires. Here's a statement I want you to get. For all the city of my people doth know that thou art a virtuous woman. Notice that all of the city of my people doth know that thou art a virtuous woman. We'll just have a word of prayer, and I want to bring a message this evening on the virtues of the virtuous. Heavenly Father, as we come into your presence, I want to thank you for the opportunity that we have again to pray. I thank you, Lord, for the new and living way that's been opened up. Thank you for the Lord Jesus, who shed his blood and Made a way for the likes of us to approach thee. We thank you for the work of Calvary. We thank you, Lord, for the empty tomb. But we also thank you for an open ear and an extended arm here at the throne of grace. And so we bow just now and pray, help, Lord. Would you help both the preacher and the hearer? Would you do for us what we need, Lord? For thou alone knowest, and Lord, I pray that you'll get all the glory. How flesh exalt Christ. And Lord, may your will be done as we study thy word. Thank you, Lord, for your faithfulness, and thank you for this privilege to pray. We ask these things in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. Thank you for standing. You know, as you study the Bible, you begin to realize that there are some great women in the scripture. Starting off very early in the Word of God, we have Eve. And I think Eve is one of those that we could put in the category of a great woman. You study a little further and you find a lady by the name of Sarah. We often put a lot of emphasis on Abraham, but Abraham wouldn't be Abraham without a Sarah. Sarah was a critical part of that whole account and what God was doing. You know, I've often heard messages preached on Sarah's laughing. That somehow or another it was mockery or something of that nature, but I don't read that in the Word of God. I don't know that her laughing was not a laughter of joy that God would do such a wonderful thing in such a time in her life. To make a woman who was incapable of having children suddenly capable of having a child. Be that as it may, Sarah was a great woman We even have in the Bible, in the book, in the Kings, the record of a woman who helped the prophet, and the Bible says there dwelt a great woman. That's what the Bible says. She was a great woman. We don't know her name. We don't know a whole lot about her outside of her generosity to the prophet, but yet she was called a great woman. And we could go on. We could talk about Mary, and we could talk about Martha, and all of these were great women. But know this: only Ruth is called virtuous. Only Ruth. Of all the women in the Bible. You said, What about that Proverbs thirty one? Well again, uh that was a description of of uh a woman and that was to be desired. It it wasn't a description of an actual. I know I've heard some people say it was a description of Bathsheba or some other lady But in reality, it was a model woman laid out in the Word of God. But there is a woman who's called virtuous. And Ruth is that woman. Boaz makes the statement who would the kinsman redeemer who would take her in marriage and And care for her as we go through the book of Ruth, but he said, All the city of my people doth know that thou art a virtuous woman. You say, Preacher, why is that such a big deal? By the way I do believe that the order of words and the arrangement of words and the usage of words in the Bible are of divine design. I don't think there's anything accidentally said or anything accidentally left out. If if If a virtuous woman, if there was a purpose in magnifying some other lady and calling her virtuous, the Lord would have. But God singles out one woman. One woman and says she 's a virtuous woman. In fact, it was not said by just simply Boaz But it was said by all the people in that city, everybody there in Bethlehem, they knew that this was a virtuous woman. That was the talk. When they talked about Ruth, they said Ruth is a virtuous woman. What's so interesting to me is that Ruth of all peoples called a virtuous woman. You say, What do you mean? Remember where Ruth comes from. Rusia Moabite. And under the law of God, the Moabites were not allowed into the family of Israel. They were outcasts. They were cut off. They were individuals for whom there was apparently no grace nor mercy. Now you trace their lineage, you go back, you find out that they the Moabites and the Ammonites were the byproduct of the ancestral relationship between Lot and his daughters. And God had said, they will not enter into the kingdom of my family. They will not be a part of the Israelites. And so they were under a curse, if you will. But yet here is a Moabite. Here is a woman from Moab, and she is being called a virtuous woman. Well, when I read that, it reminds me of what the grace of God can do. That God's grace can take an outcast, someone who for whom it seems there is no hope nor help. and make a way for them to get in and not just get in but get on. I mean she didn't just get in by the skin of her teeth. She was a virtuous woman The Bible says that, as our brother quoted again in the song, Proverbs 31:10, who can find a virtuous woman for a price that's far above rubies? So, what does that word virtuous mean? It simply means one who is strong in all moral qualities It's not just being pure. It's being strong in all of her moral qualities. Or, if you'll let me say it like this, morally excellent. Now, here is a Moabite. Whom the Scripture says was morally excellent. Again, I see nothing but a magnification of the marvelous grace of God. It just goes to show you there's nobody too far, too too deep in sin, too stained, too low, that the grace of God can't reach down and change their soul. God 's grace is still amazing. And God can save to the uttermost those that come to Him, and as the old preachers used to say, even to the guttermost. God can save. That's what grace is all about. By the way, if you're saved tonight, you got in by grace. You're saved by grace through faith. And I'll remind you that it's not about you. It had nothing to do with you. The only thing you contributed was your sin, but it was God who provided the Savior. So we see the marvelous grace of God in this woman's life, Ruth the Moabitus. But I want you to look at some virtues. of the virtuous. What are some of the elements that made this woman great in her moral excellency? I want you to notice just three things quickly this evening, and you're going to have to go around here with me in the book of Ruth, not a large book, but we're going to go back to chapter number one, and I want you to see the first virtue. In Ruth chapter number one , verse number sixteen, the Bible says that Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave thee. Or to return from following after thee. For whither thou goest I will go, and where thou lodgest I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people. Now here's the key. Thy God, my God. Where thou diest will I die, and there will I be buried. The Lord do so to me, and more also, if aught but death part thee and me. When she saw that she was steadfastly minded to go with her, then she left speaking unto her. If you're making notes this evening, I want you to notice the first virtue is the virtue of commitment. It was a virtue of commitment. You know, she made a commitment here that involved every part of her being Her commitment was just not a shallow attachment, but a strong affection and allegiance. And she said, I'm going to go where you go. I'm sure you've heard this. Some uh you know someone told the little story about the chicken and the pig talking about helping the farmer, and they wanted to make a contribution to his breakfast. And uh, you know, the chicken was all in, and the pig was a little hesitant And the pig said to the chicken, you know, you're making a contribution. It's going to require a commitment on my part if I help the farmer. You'll get that. Some of you had a big dinner, I can tell. You're a little slow here this evening, but the Lord will help you. But you know, this was a commitment. I want you to notice that her commitment began at her conversion. Now I believe, now if you don't believe this, that's all right, but I believe that she was converted here in verse 16. I believe when she said, Thy God shall be my God, she wasn't just going through some little rote or ritual. This was the reality that she had believed on the true God of heaven. You say, how did she do that down in Moab? How did she learn? I'll tell you how she learned. She learned from Naomi. She learned from that mother-in-law who told her the stories of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. who told her the stories of the creation account, who told her of all of the God of Israel and his great power. And through that telling and through that information she came to know the true God. And she there came a place that she made a commitment and it began at her conversion. And she said, I'm turning my back on these gods of the Moabites. I'm leaving those idols and all of that debauchery, and I'm going to make your God my God. Now that's commitment. You know , I know that salvation is of the Lord, but he does call upon us to believe. He does require of us to cry out. And I'm grateful that my salvation is not dependent upon my commitment. See, grace is not how tight a hold I got on him. Grace is about how he's got a hold on me That's what grace is all about. But yet her commitment began at conversion. I would submit to you that Naon or Ruth here would have never been committed had she not come To the Lord Jesus or to the God of heaven. Her her commitment was born out of her conversion. It was part of what God does in a person when he saves them. Not only do we see her commitment in conversion, but we see her commitment through her courage. Look in verse 17. She says this, where thou diest will I die, and there will I be buried. The Lord do so to me, and more also, if aught but death part thee and me Now we read that and we think, well, that's nice. She's saying, I'm just going to stick with you till one of us dies. There's more to it than that. Do you understand who she was and where she's going? She's a Moabite going back to Bethlehem. She very well was putting her life in jeopardy. She was an enemy. She was an outcast. She was an ostracized person. And on top of that, she's a widow woman And so she literally is saying, if it cost me my life, it cost me my life, but I'm going to go with you. Now that's commitment. That's the courage that is required to make a commitment on this level. You know that God would help us to see in this day more of this kind of commitment to the Lord. More of this dedication, this consecration of ourselves to the Lord God of heaven. You know, my friend, listen, he's worthy of our highest allegiance. And our deepest loyalty. He did something for you nobody else could do. And in saving you and I, my friend, he calls us to a place of commitment. And you know, the commitment that the Lord calls the believer to is a radical thing because he tells us to follow him, deny everything and follow him, to put everything else aside and to go after him. And like the song so beautifully says, I have decided to follow Jesus. Here's where the courage is required. No turning back. No turning back. Though none go with me, still I will follow. No turning back, no turning back. Listen, uh if if all oppose me I've got to follow. I've got to stay committed to the Lord Jesus. I'll tell you one of the moral excellencies of this woman named Ruth, who's the virtuous woman Is this thing of her commitment? Oh, what a virtue commitment is. And she was committed to following Christ. And may the Lord help us to have that virtue as well. Let me say quickly number two, there's something about her character. There's something about her character Now, if you'll go over to chapter number two, we see the virtue of character in this woman. And there's a lot of the things that I'd like to say, but I'll just keep this brief concerning her character. I want you to notice three verses in chapter number two, verse two, verse seven, and verse ten. In verse two, the Bible says, And Ruth the Moabiter said unto Naomi , Let me now go to the field and glean ears of corn after him in whose sight I shall find grace. And she said unto her, Go, my daughter. I want you to notice her character is seen in her contribution. She said, let me go glean. I don't want to be just a seat warmer. I want to go glean. Let me go glean. Let me have a part. Let me do something that will be a contribution to the household. Do you know something? I believe God doesn't save anybody just to sit. He saves everybody to serve. And and and listen, it's part of our character that we want to be a contributor. I was Laying awake the other night just thinking and I was thinking of of of when I first surrendered to preach And uh I was 16 years old and and my fear was is that my life would be like some of the preachers I knew in my church. You see, back in those days I bet we had 35 or 40 preachers in our church. There was one whole section like right over here that was full of preachers. But the funny thing is they never preached. When the preacher said, I want all the God-called men to stand, they'd all stand up and say their name. But they never went anywhere to preach. My pastor would often joke and say they're like buzzards waiting on the preacher to die to get his job. And I remember trip being troubled over that. I said, Lord, if you call me to preach, I don't want to just sit somewhere. I want to serve. God, give me a place. Open the door. Make a way. And begin to think about those doors that God opened. Those opportunities to contribute something to the work of God. My, what a privilege it was this I'll never forget the first little church out in Irondough, North Carolina. It's about as big as this sanctuary, I guess. I'm talking about the community. The church was even smaller. And uh a dear preacher, brother, that that had been there for quite some time. He said, I want you to come preach to my young people. I remember getting to go out there and preach, and I thought, wow, this is amazing. I was scared to death and sick all day, but I'll tell you, it thrilled my heart to be able to say, God, I was able to do something. You helped me serve you in some way. And then getting to go to the rescue mission, preaching my home church. The Lord put my heart to have an open-air meeting, and so I went down on the side of the interstate, interstate 40. in a little community called Fines Creek, right off the side of the of the highway there. What do they call that crooked road that goes over into Tennessee? The Gorge. And uh on the start of the gorge, they call it, uh I put up chairs and a pulpit, and my dad took our little camper out there so I'd have somewhere to stay. And the first night I got up to preach, you know who was there? My dad, my mom, and Elizabeth. That was it. We weren't married. I was just young. That was all. Then the next night I preached the whole week and and that next night two neighbors were walking their dogs. And they they they brought, they come around, they didn't come and sit down, but they stood at the back of where the chairs were and just stood there with their dogs. And then a few more would trickle in and drive by. What are you doing down there? That's just weird. That's an odd place to have note, but it's what the Lord put in my heart to do. I'm just saying that that saved people ought to have a desire in some way. God may not call you to preach and God may not put you in some public ministry, but oh how much there is to do to contribute. For the work of the Lord. And listen, if you take a cup of cold water in the name of the Lord Jesus, you'll not lose your reward. That's a way of serving God. I read the story of a of a lady who lived down the mountains, I believe it was Tennessee, and she couldn't read herself, but she heard the preacher preach a message on that servant bringing a cup of cold water. And she had a spring, and I'll tell you something, if you've never had spring water out of the mountains, you've not had good water. The salamanders and the frogs will just give it flavor. Alright? But she got it in her heart that she was going to bring the preacher water every time he preached. And she 'd bring that water. And you know what? To a lot of people that didn't mean anything, but to her it meant everything. And I believe our God is a literal God in that she won't lose her reward. She served the Lord in some way. I don't know what way it is that God will allow or what way it is that God may give to you, but the reality is that we all ought to be a contributor. Ruth said, I don't want to just sit here and watch Naomi. I want to get involved. And she went out into the field and began to glean. I want you to notice not only her contribution, but her continuing. Look in verse number 7. And she said, I pray you, let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves. So she came and hath continued even from the morning until now that she tarried a little in the house. I see in that that she was someone who just stayed at it. Now Gleanin wasn't easy to do. She followed the reapers around and picked up what they dropped. That's back breaking work. She's been over, she's picking up uh the things that they were dropping and trying to glean, just get a little bit of the leftovers. Now, the nation of Israel lived under orders that they were to leave the outer portions of their field And you know, I remember as I uh there were a couple of farmers in my area and they always left the outer edges of their fields. And I didn't and you know what? A couple of them didn't even know why they did it They said, we just always do that. One year dad said, I'll let you have a little workhorse of your own if you come up with the feed for it. And I began to think, now Lord, I really want this, so how am I going to get feed? I didn't have a field to grow feed in, and I said, Lord, you've got to show me, help me, I want this, I want this workhorse. And the farmer had that corn. And I went out in that field, I went around that he left behind, and I cut it up, and it was corn. I cut the corn, the shot the stalk and the whole thing, and took it in and made me a great big corn shock. I had a corn shock that would just feel the front of this church. Dad come home one day and said, What's that? I said, That's to feed my horse. He said, Well, you don't have it yet. I said, That's your problem. That ain't mine You gotta get it. You said if I can feed it, I got enough feed to fill it the whole year. Well, that's what Nay uh Aruth did. She was out gleaning. She was gathering, picking up. But you know, I think what stands out to me is the fact that she didn't quit. She just stayed at it. She continued in her gleaning, no matter how hard or difficult or hot the sun or challenging the task, she just continued. One of the great statements about David in the Bible is found in 2 Samuel 5, verse 10. The Bible says, and David went on. There's a lot said there. Oh, he faced Saul, but David went on. Had deal would go out, but David went on. He had to face a lot of opposition, and David went on. Even after David failed, David went on. After David sinned, he got right with God, and David went on. After that little baby died, David got up, washed his face, and David went on. I believe you could write over the top of David's life the great trait of his character is that David went on. God help us to be men and women. Who learned the secret of just going on, staying at it, continuing for the Lord. Don't let anything shake you. I'm amazed at oftentimes how little character God's people have. May the Lord help us in this. Just go on. Just go on for the Lord. Just just continue on. We're not serving men, we're serving him. And just go on. Just stay at it. Just continue. for the Lord. Don't let something sidetrack you or cause you to stray. Just continue on. When the sun's beaten down or the rain's fallen or the difficulties arise, just stay at it. Just continue on By the way, nobody's ever used mightily of the Lord who doesn't learn just to go on and stay faithful. She continued. The last thing I want you to see about her character is her Christ-likeness. In verse number 10, the Bible says this. Then she fell on her face and bowed herself to the ground, and said unto him, Why have I found grace in thine eyes? That thou shouldest take knowledge of me, seeing I am a stranger. I'm talking about her likeness to our Lord in her humility. The Bible says that even though he was the very Son of God, he humbled himself and became a servant, became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. He humbled himself. And you know something she could have said, look, I'm a widow, my mother-in-law's a widow, and we really need this food. And so You ought to help us. We deserve this. No, no. She fell on her face and she said, I'm just a stranger. Why are you even paying me any attention Why are you looking my way? By the way, you're never more like the Lord than when you choose to humble yourself. And here she is humbling herself. What character. What character. You know the virtue of character is unequaled. It rises above personality, it rises above charisma and charm, it rises above popularity and all of those things, this thing, my friend, of having character. May God help us to be men and women of character. Let me give you the last virtue that I see here of the virtuous. Not only was she a woman of commitment, she was a woman of character. But perhaps this is the most outstanding thing about her. She was a woman of compassion. She was a woman of compassion. Chapter 2, verse 11, the Bible says, Boaz answered and said unto her, It hath been fully showed me all that thou hast done unto thy mother-in-law since the death of thine husband. And how thou hast left thy father and thy mother in the land of thy nativity, and art come unto a people which thou knowest not heretofore. I want you to notice her compassion. She had a compassion that made her concerned about someone in need. Her mother-in-law had been left without a husband, without children. And yet her heart was moved with concern. She was moved with the with the compassion. She was moved. You remember back in chapter 1 verse 14 that uh her her other sister-in-law, Orpus, she kissed her mother-in-law and left. So she turned and they lifted up their voice and wept again, and Orpha kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clave unto her. She had a concern. I'll be honest with you, it concerns me that compassion is dwindling in this day. A lack of concern. You know, I guess we live in such a time people live in fear of getting involved. They live in fear of You know, I I I just can't wrap my head around people standing and taking video of people suffering, somebody being robbed or mugged or things like that happening and not having enough concern to say something needs to be done. Instead of thinking about getting Facebook likes, we ought to be thinking about how we can help and be involved and show compassion on someone. But even in the house of the Lord, there seems to be a great lack of compassion. And we often put ourselves before our Savior in the sufferings of others, and we say, Well, you know, that's their problem. Well, brother, sister. My Bible still says, if one weeps, we all weep. If one rejoices, we all rejoice. I want you to see her concern. It was born out of her heart of compassion. Then look at her care. It says, as we read on here in verse number 18, that she she took it up and went into the city, and her mother-in-law saw what she had gleaned. And she brought forth and gave to her that she had reserved after she was sufficed. By the way, I started to do this and ran out of time, but it would be good to mark every time that Ruth brought Naomi her gleanings. Several times it says she brought what she gleaned. She she was trying to help Naomi out. She was bringing part of what she had gathered because she cared about her. Compassion is something you can't learn just simply by reading about it. Compassion, I believe, is born in the heart that is yielded to the Spirit of God. Where the Lord begins to open your eyes to see others. I heard someone say one time, they said, Lord, stamp others. Over their heart. Stamp others. Let's be honest. This is a me, my, and mine age. It really is. It's where we live. And unfortunately that thinking that thinking comes into the house of the Lord. May the Lord help us. To have compassion, to see others, to see the needs of others, to see the plight of others, to see the condition of others, and to say, Lord, help me to be a help in some way to show compassion on them. We need a revival of compassion in this hour. Compassion is the virtue of the virtuous. Let me just say this as I bring this to a close. What you are will get out on you. You know, it says here in the Bible that all the city knew that she was a virtuous woman. It wasn't because she bought billboards and plastered it all over town, saying, Ruth is a virtuous woman It wasn't because she went and bought a t-shirt that had printed across the front Ruth is a virtuous woman. It wasn't because she paid people to say, go around and tell everybody Ruth's a virtuous woman No, simply put, what she was was seen by all. In Proverbs 22:1, the Bible says a good name is rather to be chosen than great riches. And you know, the whole account just reminds me again of what the grace of God can do in a person's life. Who would have ever thought the one virtuous woman in the entire Bible, God would go down to Moab and get her and bring her up to Israel? That God would go to the place that was forbidden, the place that was rejected, the place that was separated and cut off, a place that represented no hope and no God. And yet God would go there and say, I want to show my people what virtue is. And so I'm going to choose a Moabite and I'm going to put over her head the title, Virtuous Woman. Oh, listen to me. Aren't you glad there's a God in heaven who saves old sinners? Aren't you glad there's a God in heaven who reaches down in the slime pit of sin and digs up the worst, washes them in the royal blood of Jesus? puts their feet on a solid rock and says, here is virtue. It's not about what a person makes themselves, it's what grace does in the life of an individual. But you know her story really don't end here. This is just getting started. Boaz takes her to be his wife. And Boaz and her have a child, and they name that little boy Obed. And little Obed grows up and he gets married, and he has a little boy, and they name him Jesse. Jesse grows up and he gets married and he has a whole bunch of boys, but one boy in particular is very special because his name was David, the great king of Israel. And here's that Moabite, that person who shouldn't have a chance. God goes down there and gets her, and not only does he make her a virtuous woman, But God does something even more special and says, I'm going to put you in the lineage of my son. Now that's what grace does Grace will make the impossible possible. That means, look, every sinner I see, God could do wonders for them. The salvation that is offered is offered unto all. And God is able to save even the case you've wrote off and said there's no hope or help. I'm here to tell you grace can even reach them. And the beauty of it is God can do something with that person that you never dreamed possible. Go back down there to Moab just a minute. Talk to Ruth. Her husband's alive. Everything's going okay. They're surviving this great drought that has caused the dearth, the hunger. Uh in that part of the world, they're doing okay. They're they're eating, and that's that's why they came down there. The family came down there. You say, uh Ruth, I want to tell you something. One of these days you're going to leave Moab. No, I'll never leave Moab. My husband's here. My family's here. This is where I was born. I'm not leaving Moab. No, Ruth, you're going to leave Moab. That won't ever happen. And you're going to go back up to Bethlehem. And she laughs and says, you know my kind's not welcome in Bethlehem. I'm a Moabite. We're just not allowed. That's just not places we can go. But Ruth, let me tell you something else You know that Messiah that Naomi talks about, and that promised seed that's supposed to come? You're going to be a part of that You're it's going to be in your lineage. You're going to be able to say, I'm the great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great grandmother, and and the Lord's going to use me. You say that's impossible. Yeah, that's what she thought until Grace stepped in Can I tell you something, buddy? Every one of us sitting here, we're a testimony of the impossible until grace stepped in. You wouldn't be who you are or where you are had Grace not stepped in But thank God for grace that moves in and changes our lives. Oh, that God would help us see how powerful the grace of God is. These are the virtues of the virtuous, but maybe I should say this. These are the virtues of grace. This is what grace does. Has grace done anything for you? Oh, that God would give us grace to be committed. That God would give us grace to have character. And oh, that God would give us grace to show compassion. It's what made Ruth stand out, really. She stood out so much the Lord said, Here's a virtuous woman. I'm going to name this one. I want the Lord to put some names on me, don't you? And it'll all be by grace. May the Lord help us this evening. I'm going to invite you to stand. If you need to pray, you come.