Amen. I'm glad we can take our burdens to the Lord and leave them there. Amen. Would you open your Bible, please, to First Thessalonians? 1 Thessalonians chapter number 1. And I want to read the whole chapter, but there's one verse in particular I want to draw your attention to. I want to give you a text for the new year. It's in my heart. There are two texts that I want to give you today. The Lord helping me, I want to give you one this morning and I want to give you another in the evening service. But I believe they're key texts for the coming year. But in 1 Thessalonians chapter number 1, the Bible says this Paul and Sylvanus, Timotheus, under the church of the Thessalonians, which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers. Remembering, and by the way, that's what Paul's doing here in 1 Thessalonians. He's remembering what the Lord has done. He's remembering how the Lord worked there in Thessalonica. He's not there now. He got run out of town real quick. He wasn't there but about six weeks, from best we can tell. But he's just looking back and he's he's contemplating, he's thinking about all that the Lord's done. Remembering without ceasing your work of faith. And labor of love and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of God and our Father. Knowing, brethren, beloved, your election of God. For our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance, as you know what manner of men we were among you for your sake. And ye became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Ghost. So that ye were in samples to all that believe in Macedonia and Achai For from you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achai, but also in every place your faith, the Godword, is spread abroad, so that we need not to speak anything. For they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had unto you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. And to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come. Paul had some good memories when he thought about the people in Thessalonica. When he thought about how they had gotten saved, how they turned from idols, they turned from paganism. They turned from uh things that were not gods, false gods, when they turned from those idols to serve the living and true God. He said, When I think about that, man, he said, I just have to give thanks to God for you. He was thankful for all that the Lord had done there. This this very much could be a model church. The church at Thessalonica was a model assembly. They were a people. In fact, he said, Paul said, you are in samples. In other words, you're an example, not just there in Macedonia, but all of Achae in that entire region, you are an example of what a church ought to be. By the way, it wasn't the ministry of the Apostle Paul that made them that. He wasn't there long. He preached the gospel, God saved them, the Spirit of God began to work. You say, what made them a model church? It was the work of God in their hearts. It's what God and by the way, isn't that what's important? It's what God's doing that really matters. It's what God's doing. And then I want you to notice As he reminisces about them, he makes a statement. That's a text that I'm interested in. This is what they're doing. This is what they're currently doing. Verse number 10 Wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come. I want to give you this text because here is the church doing what we should be doing. We're 2,000 years removed from this assembly. We're 2,000 years removed from what's going on there in Thessalonica. But what that New Testament church was doing then, this New Testament church needs to be doing today. You say, preacher, what is that? Wait for his son from heaven. That's what we're doing. As we look into the new year, you know, and I I hope you don't think this or feel this way But a lot of times when you talk about the Lord coming, people say, I've heard that my whole life. And he hasn't come. Well, can I say to you this morning that the reality is I've heard that my whole life. And he hasn't come. In fifty-three years I've heard it, I've heard it preached, I've heard it In fact, there have been times in my life that I thought we were right on the brink of it. I mean really close. I remember my pastor preaching a certain series of prophecy messages, and boy, our hearts were just stirred and tendered about the Lord coming, and Sarah was just a little girl. She fell out of her crib one night. We heard the noise, but we didn't quite know what it was. And I thought, you know, we better get up and look. And when I got up to look, I couldn't find her. And you know what came to my mind? The Lord come. Preacher had been preaching that. He had been getting upset. Now look, he said there'll be some folks that aren't saved and the Lord will come back and they'll run in that room and they'll see an empty crib and and and they'll find a pile of clothes and and and this one's gone and that one's gone. And I'll tell you that was the first thing that come to my mind. You say, preacher, you're not sure you're saved? No, I know I'm saved. But I'll tell you what, my heart was tender in the fact that, hey, the Lord could come. The Lord could come. If the Lord don't come in the next few days we'll pass 2025 and and we'll start a new year, 2026. And I'm telling you that that year, this coming year, could be the year. Every New Testament assembly has lived in light of this truth. I believe the Apostle Paul thought the Lord was coming in his day. I believe that. I believe these early Christians, these n these believers we read about in the book of Acts and so on, I believe they really thought Jesus is coming. Really believed it. By the way, one day you're going to be right. I don't know when. The Bible tells us that we don't know the day nor the hour. Only the Father knows that. A and yet that day is coming, it it could be this year. So I want you to take this text. I want it to be sort of the key that opens the door for the coming year as it also acts as a seal over this year that has passed. To wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come. I want to say three things about this text. Number one, I want you to notice there was an anticipation of his return. You know what they were doing? Waiting on his son. They were waiting on Jesus. In fact, these believers were so convinced Jesus was coming. that someone came around and said he's come already and they got upset and Paul had to write Second Thessalonians and remind them that there are certain things got to happen before Jesus comes back. But they were convinced he was coming. Are we anticipating you say preacher? I accept the fact. No, I'm talking about anticipating the truth. Do you know you can accept the fact? I I venture in this congregation, just looking quickly over it. That I could approach any one of you and say, Do you believe the Lord's coming? And probably almost everybody here would say, Yes, I do. You accept the truth. But can I ask you something? Are you anticipating the reality? Are you looking forward to the Lord coming? Are you anticipating the fact that , and by the way, accepting and anticipating are two different things. Anticipating means to long for. I like how Titus put it in Titus chapter 2 and verse number 13, looking for You know that word looking means to strain your neck for? You know as as you as uh how did that song put it, old age steals on? Um, your eyes aren't as good as they were, right? Or they're printing things smaller now. I don't know which. Maybe Maybe it's the print company's fault, I don't know. But but but you ever have to, you know, really strain to look. Sometimes we'll be out and myself say, hey, look at that. And I'm like, look at what Look at that. Look at that over there. And I'm I can't see it for nothing. You put your glasses on. You still can't see it. And you look, you know, you sort of stretch and squint and strain and try. That's what that word looking for. It's an anticipation. It's a longing. It's the craning of the neck. It's looking for what? That blessed hope. and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. Are you looking for Him? Waiting for His Son from heaven. Here is a a body of believers Who were anticipating the return of Jesus Christ. They're just waiting. They're waiting on his son from heaven Let me say several things about this anticipation. Number one, we ought to anticipate his coming because he promised. John chapter fourteen and and verse number three uh says, If I go, and if I go To prepare a place for you. I will come again to receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. That's a promise. He made a promise, and here's what he said. He said, I'm going away, but I'm coming back. And when I come back, I'm going to get you and take you to be with me. That's a promise. That's just a simple promise. I read the story of a little girl who uh had gotten hurt and her dad went to get help. She had broken a leg, she had fell, and he was not able to carry her out. It was too far and she was too big, and it was uh he was just unable to carry her. He said, Listen, I will come back for you. I've got to go get help, but you just stay right here. I will come back. And when they finally got back with the rescue squad and all the people there to help her, someone said to her, Were you ever afraid? And she said, no. They said, no, really, you can tell us now. Were you ever afraid that we wouldn't get back or get to you? She said, no. My daddy made a promise. And he always keeps his promises. My Father in heaven made a promise. He said to me very clearly that if I go, I will come again. and receive you unto myself. You can rest assured on the promise made, Jesus is coming. Don't get caught up in these last days with all of the foolishness that's circulating. Scoffers will rise in the last day, saying, Where's the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were. In other words, there'll be a whole lot of people say, Well, the Lord's not coming. Some will get to the point they'll change their doctrine about what the Bible says concerning the coming of the Lord. And here's the problem: they're trying to interpret the Bible through the lens of current affairs. We never interpret the Bible through the lens of current affairs. We interpret current affairs through the lens of the Bible. The final authority is the Word of God. And Jesus said very clearly, I will come again. And friend, you can bank on it, you can rest on it, you can trust in it. It very well could be the coming year because the Lord said, I will come again. Not only is there a promise made, but there is a purpose intended. There's a reason that you ought to be anticipating the coming of the Lord. Would you look over here with me in 1 John? First John chapter number three tells me the reason I need to be looking for the Lord's return First John chapter three and verse two Beloved now are we the sons of God. Let me just stop here and say if you're saved, you're as saved as you're ever going to be. You're not going to get any more saved than you currently are if you're born again. Now. Right now. Right now, you're a son of God. Right now, you're a part of the family. Right now you belong to him. Right now heaven's your home. In fact, it's as good your home as if you was already home. Now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. Don't get too down on what you see when you look around, because uh he's not finished yet. He's not done. He's not through with you, and he's not through with me. It doth not yet appear what we shall be, but here's what we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is And every man that hath this hope, look at it, in him, purifieth himself even as he is pure. That's the purpose intended. You want to get some help this morning to live right? Believe right about the coming of the Lord. You want to get some motivation to do right, just know this. Jesus could come at any moment. I've told you this, but years ago my my older sister used to babysit for us and And uh she take care of me and my little sister. And uh as we got a little older, maybe we got to be a bit of a handful, and my sister at least she was a handful. And uh my older sister would say this, Mom, Dad's coming home. And she never would tell us when She would just simply say they were. I'd say, what time are they coming? She said, I'm not going to tell you that. But they are coming. Now we had enough sense to know that they always come home every evening, so we knew at some point they would be coming. And that became a great motivation to behave, especially the nearer we got to their coming. You understand what I'm saying? Our Bible gives us real good help about living right and living for the Lord. We need to live in light of the truth that Jesus is coming and recognize that God made a purpose in that because he wants us to live pure even as he is pure. Then notice with me thirdly there's a preparation that's required. As we anticipate his return, there ought to be some getting ready. Matthew 24 and 44 says, Therefore be ye also ready, for in such an hour as ye think not, the Son of Man cometh. Need to be ready, church. You say, preacher, I'm saved, yeah, but are you close? Are you clean? Are you Christ like? Preacher, I'm I I'm I know I'm going to heaven. I I've got that settled, and thank God I hope you do. But the truth of the matter is that there's a preparation involved in getting ready. And and and twenty twenty six, we ought to live closer than we did in twenty twenty-five. We ought to live closer. We ought to seek to live live live excuse me, seek to live cleaner. Cleaner. Having our hearts cleansed. Aren't you glad for 1 John 1 9? You ought to use it. Well, I don't know if if you've ever been in a situation where you couldn't get cleaned up for a lengthy period of time. We were talking this week about I spent a week in in Cape Britain Highlands in a tent and there was no nowhere to to shower, nowhere to get cleaned up. We were moose hunting up there. And uh even most of the brooks were froze over, so you didn't want to break one and wash in that. I mean, it was cold. And I remember when I got home, the first thing I did was get a shower And that was the best shower I can ever remember taking. Man, you do you understand what I'm saying? You ever just I mean you just felt clean. Finally, finally clean. Isn't it good to get up in the morning and say, Now Lord, search my heart. And Lord, if there's anything in my heart that ought not to be there, show me and I'll confess it, and Lord, you just wash it away. And isn't it good to get up from that point and say, God thank you for the cleansing blood of Jesus? If we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Thank God for the cleansing blood of the Lamb of God. Well, there's preparation that needs to be made if you're not saved, friends. You need to be born again. You cannot anticipate the return of Christ if you're not converted. You can only dread the reality. As we look at the Word of God, I want you to notice this longing and looking and anticipating is the mark of every New Testament church. Every Bible-believing assembly has looked for and longed for and anticipated the coming of the Lord Don't let the darkness of the hour snuff out the light of truth that reminds us Jesus is coming. I read of two martyrs, and as they made their way to the stake to be burned at the stake for their faith, both talked about their physical infirmities. Both had uh one one of the dear men was blind, the other man was was very crippled from many years of abuse for being a Christian. And the blind brother said to the other gentleman, he said, Sir, the flame will fix us both. He said it's going to cure us because the Lord, when he comes, is going to give us new bodies. We leave here, we're going to be changed. Can I tell you something? The coming of the Lord, the coming of the Lord is going to fix all that ails us. There might be a lot of things that we can't resolve and that will not get resolved on this side of eternity. A lot of uh perhaps it's physical ailments, perhaps it's a uh uh uh another problem, a family, social whatever problem. It could be a multitude of things, but I'm telling you the coming of the Lord will cure it all. You anticipating his return? I know people say, well, preacher, that's just a pie in the sky. No, it's the truth of the word. It's the truth of the word. Jesus is coming again. Be looking for him. Anticipate. Take this text to heart. Ask the Lord to write it deep in the recesses of your being and wait for his son from heaven. By the way, we're not looking down here for the answer, we're looking up there. We're not looking around and saying, now we're waiting for Antichrist or we're waiting for this end time event. No, we're waiting on his son. We're waiting on Jesus to come back and head from heaven, just like he said he would Remember what the angels said, that last pronouncement. Those men are standing around. Jesus goes up into the sky. So you men of Galilee, why stand you here gazing? This same Jesus. Shall so come in like manner. He's gonna come again. And so let's anticipate the return of Christ. Number two, I want you to notice an awareness of his resurrection. Look what the Bible says. And to wait for his son from heaven, 1 Thessalonians 1:10, whom he raised from the dead. By the way, these folks were living in the reality that Jesus is alive. Are we? I mean do we oh you say preach and again I could go through this congregation and I think I know about everybody I would say do you believe Jesus is alive? Probably everybody here would say, yep. He's alive. But do we live in the awareness of the reality? He is alive. Jesus is alive. Folks, we're not having a funeral this morning. It's in a funeral. May be similar to one in some ways, but it isn't a funeral. We're here to worship a living Savior. Jesus Christ is alive. He lives in you, he lives in me, those of us who are saved, he's alive, friend, and and we need to live in that reality. Remember this: the person of Christ lives. Luke 24, 5, I love this when the angel said, Why seek ye the living among the dead? You don't go to the graveyard looking for somebody alive. You don't go to a place of burial to look for someone who's living. Thank God Jesus Christ is alive. He lives. The hymn writer said he lives, he lives. Christ Jesus lives today. He walks with me and talks with me all along this way. He's alive, friend. And the reality is that he's a living person. Jesus Christ lives. I'm looking at men and women who are proof of that. You say, what do you mean? Your changed life is proof he's alive. The difference that he's made, it's not religion that made you different. It's not uh belonging to a church that made you different. It wasn't a man that made you different. It's Jesus. He's made you different. And we're living proof of the living Lord Jesus Christ. You say, where is he? Well he's got a place in heaven. Hebrews 4 14 says, seeing then that we have a great high priest. Who's passed into the heavens? Jesus, the Son of God. He's our great high priest. He's occupying a place in heaven right now, and listen, the Bible says he's ever making intercession for us. There's a lot of great truth that goes with that. I don't want to go Uh too far down that road, but I will say this. His place in heaven is why I'm secure as I live on this earth. The fact that I'm saved by the grace of God and securely saved is because of the great work Christ has done on my behalf. And is currently doing interceding for me, pleading my case before the Father. The Bible says that if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. There's someone pleading your case this morning. Thank God for the Lord Jesus. But then let me give you one more thought about this awareness of his resurrection. There is a promised nearness. In Hebrews 13, we're told this, to be content with such things as ye have, for he hath said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Now look, I I may get out of sorts of him, but he'll never leave me. I may get out of fellowship with the Lord, but the Lord will never abandon me I may get in such a way, I think about Abraham of old, and in Abraham's journeys, there was a time or two he had a feigning fit in his faith. And you find him down here in Egypt trying to solve problems on his own. And yet even down there, God was looking after him. When the children of Israel wandered for 40 years in the wilderness, they might have been wandering from God, but they were wandering with God because God was with them. And he didn't forsake them. He was a pillar of fire by night and a cloud by day. He was the manna that fed them for forty long years, the water that refreshed them. When they got thirsty, he was there with them. And I'm glad, regardless of whether I feel it, whether I can fathom it, the God of heaven is faithful, and he is with his children. He will not leave us. He will not forsake us. You've all read probably the little poem About footprints in the sand. You know, and the author of that little poem had a dream and said I only saw one set of footprints, and it seemed to be at the darkest times of my life. And then our Lord graciously reminded that person who was having this dream that it was at those times I carried you. The footprints you saw were not yours, but mine. And every one of us who've been saved any amount of time can look back and say, you know, God's been faithful. Even though I failed the Lord and fallen short, God has been faithful. And can I make an announcement to you this morning? God will be faithful. Because he does not change. He is the Lord and he changes not. His promise near nearness. And by the way, all of that's significant because he lives. Because he lives. There's an awareness of his resurrection. Let me give you one more thought out of this text. I want you to notice not only the anticipation of his return and an awareness of his resurrection, but I want you to see this appreciation of his rescue. Look what it says. Even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come. Even Jesus, who delivered us from the wrath to come. Listen, we can't lose sight of what the Lord has done for us. Have you noticed how many things God's given us to remember? The fact that we're saved. The ordinance of baptism is a reminder of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ for sinners. The ordinance of the Lord's table is a reminder. Christ died for my sin, and his blood was shed to put it away. How many scriptures tell us to remember what the Lord's done? Listen, if you ever forget where you were, you're going to get in a bad way. You know, there was a path, and I want you to see this in the text, there was a path we all were on. That path led to wrath, led to destruction, led to hell. Paul wrote like this in Ephesians chapter 2, you once were the children of wrath even as others. I don't want to get to the place that I forget that I once was lost. It's awful easy. It's awful easy to get to the place where you forget you once were lost. I like this the song Amazing Grace. John Newton says, I once was lost, but now I'm found. Was blind, but now I see. He didn't want to get over, in fact, he wrote in his journal that he did not want to forget what a wretch he was when God found him He wanted to remember that was the path I was on, but thank God not only do I need to remember the path that I was on, but I need to remember the pardon that was delivered. I was headed to wrath, but God made a difference. What is in Ephesians chapter 2 verse 4? After we remember that we're children of wrath, even as others, verse number 4 starts like this, but God To rich in mercy. Isn't that a good statement? Yeah, I w I was once a child of wrath. I once was headed to hell. But God intervened. God buttied in. God saved me. God showed me mercy. And now the wrath that I anticipated is no longer in front of me. There's a heaven awaiting me There's a pardon that's received. And then it is a priority to remember You know, Paul wrote over here in the book of Ephesians, chapter number two, that, you know, let me read the text here that we once Wherefore remember that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision by that which is called the circumcision of the flesh made by hands, that at that time You were without Christ, being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. That's how we were But look what it says, but now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. That's what we are now. And we need to remember it as a priority that God has done some things for me. And listen, this is where worship is born. There's a lot of talk about worship today, and a lot of it's just mere sentimentalism or emotionalism. Worship has as its springboard redemption. We worship because we've been redeemed. We worship because we've been rescued. We worship because we've been saved by the grace of God. I don't need a catalyst to make me worship. That catalyst has already taken place when Christ died for my sin on the cross of Calvary. I don't need ten songs to warm me up or stir me up. The reality is I'm converted And wonder of wonders that the God of heaven would save the likes of me. Oh, listen, here we find an appreciation of his rescue. Here was a group of people. Couldn't you envision them? They didn't sit in an assembly like this or a building perhaps like this. But as they came together, here was a group of people. You know what they did? They anticipated his return. They're looking heavenward. They're saying Jesus is coming. They were not only a people who anticipated his return, but they were aware of his resurrection. They understood he's with us. He's right here with us, and wherever we go, he's with us. And then they were a group of people who appreciated the fact that he had rescued them. They once were idolaters. They once worshipped false gods. And now they know Jesus Christ as their Savior. Now, friend, let's let this text be our guide for the coming year. You learn something after you pass a few years Most years are much the same as the other years that have already passed. There's a great deal of sameness. Have you noticed that? I mean we look at a new year and we say, oh man, I'm going to do this different or that's going to be different. And one thing I've learned in these years, looking back, is not a whole lot different. There's a lot of sameness. Yet that's not bad in this sense. Because nothing about the Lord is going to change in the coming year. Nothing about the truth of the Bible is going to be altered in the coming year. No matter what happens, God remains the same. And you and I can anticipate his return, we can be aware that he's alive, and we can appreciate the fact we've been redeemed and worship him in spirit and truth as an assembly. It's what we've been left here to do. And friend, if you're here today not saved, or you're listening to this broadcast and you've never been born again, can I urge you today to trust Jesus Christ? He is the only way. I'm not being arrogant or ignorant. I'm just trying to be accurate and tell you the truth. The Bible says Jesus is the only way. He's the truth and the life, and no man cometh unto the Father but by him. There's no other way. And the and the the the precious thing of this is that Christ died for the sins of the whole world. That includes you. He died for your sin. He was buried. He rose again the third day. And he lives forever. And listen, he's given us a great promise that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You say, can God save somebody like me? He can save anybody. Anywhere, anytime, because he's the Lord. And dear friend, if you're not saved, you need to be. And if you are saved, let me ask you something. Are we living this text in this local church? Are we really anticipating this could be the year? This could be the year that the Lord comes. Take heart. Be encouraged. This could be the year that Jesus Christ comes. This could be the year, and and listen, if he comes or he doesn't come, the reality is he's going to be with us throughout the whole year. Because he's alive. Look. We'll never have his funeral. He lives forever. He lives forever. He's alive. And do we appreciate the fact we've been redeemed? Some folk I know they get to the point they get so um I don't know what the word is. They get so spiritual, they think, that they get beyond the fact they've been redeemed. I spoke to someone and they said this to me. They said, Oh, look, I got saved 50 years ago and I got over it. And you know what I should have said? I should have said, shame on you. How can you get over being God's child? How can you get over the fact that you once were headed to hell, now you head to heaven? How do you get over the fact that your sins which were many have now all been washed away? Thank God that's not something to get over. That's something to be reminded of on a daily basis that I'm redeemed, redeemed, redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. And appreciate that. Worship Him because of that. Be grateful to God for that. And live for Him because He looked your way and found you in a miserable state. And dug you up out of a horrible pit, put your feet on a solid rock and a new song in your mouth, and heaven in your future. All by His good grace and mercy. My my, what a Savior. And to wait for His Son from heaven, whom He raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come. Oh dear friend, are you close? Are you living near? Are you clean? Are you Christ-like? And and and dear friend, are you saved? Have you been born again? We ought to get these things settled before we leave this place today. Would you stand with me, please, Brother Dow, come with our hymn? Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. Father in