I want you to take your Bible, please, and go with me to Psalm 15. Psalm 15. And I want us to read the entire Psalm. There are only five verses in the Psalm. But it asks a very important question in verse number one and then goes on in the following verses to answer that question. In Psalm number 15, beginning in verse 1, the Bible says, Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? He that walketh uprightly and worketh righteousness and speaketh the truth in his heart. He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbor Nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbor, in whose eyes a vile person is contempt, but he honoreth them that fear the Lord He that sweareth to his own hurt and changeth not. He that putth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall never be moved. I want you to think with me this evening on this thought, living in God's presence. Living in God's presence. The Bible tells us here in verse number one, again asking the question: who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Notice that word abide. And then who shall dwell in thy holy hill? Both abide and dwell are places where you live. They're places that you take up residence. And he's saying here, who's going to live in your presence? Who's going to dwell? Just quickly, look over at Psalm 24, because that same language is used in verses 3 and 5. Three and four rather. Verse Psalm twenty-four, verse three. Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? Or who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully. I want us to pray, and we're going to look at this psalm, maybe for an extended time on Sunday evenings , about living in the presence of the Lord. Who lives in the presence of the Lord? Heavenly Father, we thank you again for the time we've got to be here in your house. We thank you for your word, and we thank you for the Spirit of God. I pray He'd be our teacher. We ask, Lord, for your help this evening. Fix our eyes on thee afresh. Open this book to our hearts and open our hearts to this book. Lord, we need help from you, and I pray you'll grant it and do it for your glory and our eternal good. And Lord, for all that you do, we'll be careful to praise you, for Father, we're all looking to thee. For it's in Jesus' strong name, God's people said. Amen. Just a little background about this psalm. This psalm does not have a title, in that we don't know the occasion for it, but there's really only one occasion that we can put this psalm in. This psalm, I believe, fits in the days when the Ark of the Covenant was being brought back from the Philistines back to Jerusalem. And I want you to go back there for just a minute and look at a few things that happen. We're looking first in 1 Chronicles chapter 13. In 1 Chronicles chapter number 13. Now remember, the Philistines had stolen the ark, and uh Eli dies when he gets word, he hears that the ark's been taken. And he dies, and his daughter-in-law gives birth, and before she dies, she names the child. Does anyone remember what the child's name was? Ichabod. That means the glory hath departed. Now the Ark of the Covenant represented the presence of God to the people. When the Ark of the Covenant was there, it meant God was there. They recognized that it was a symbol or a picture of God's presence with them. And when the ark was gone, it was Symbolically, that God was gone. His presence was gone. Now the Philistines learned in a hurry that you don't mess with God. And we're not going to take the time to go over that, but you remember they suffered greatly for messing with the ark. So much so they said, we've got to get this thing out of here because we're all going to die if we don't. And so they send the ark back. And we read here now David's concern is to get it back up to Jerusalem and to put it in the tent or the tabernacle that's been pitched for it. Beginning in verse number six, the Bible says, and David went up and all Israel to Bala, that is to Kirjath Jerem, which belonged to Judah. To bring up thence the ark of God the Lord that dwelleth between the cherubims, whose name is called on it. And they carried the ark of God in a new cart out of the house of Abinadam. And Uzzah and Ahio drave the cart. And David and all Israel played before God with all their might, with singing, with harps, with psalters, with timbrels, with cymbals, and with trumpets. And when they came unto the threshing floor of Chidon, Uzzah put forth his hand to hold the ark, for the oxen stumbled And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and he smote him because he put his hand to the ark, and there he died before God. Now look at this. Verse 11 says David was displeased because the Lord had made a breach upon Uzzah. And verse 12, David was afraid of God that day, saying, How shall I bring the ark of God home to me? Now I want you to notice something here. When they go back to get the ark, they do it the wrong way with the wrong men. And because they did it the wrong way with the wrong men, they got in trouble, and Uzzah loses his life. Now know this: God has a right way for you and I to live. I'm talking about, again, don't lose sight of where we're going here. We're talking about who shall abide, who shall dwell, who shall live in the presence of the Lord. Well, obviously not those that go about things the wrong way and using the wrong men. Now, David's afraid. We're told that. We get over in chapter 15 of 1 Chronicles. And I want you to see this. 1 Chronicles 15, starting in verse 1. And David made him houses in the city of David and prepared a place for the ark of God and pitched for it a tent. Then David said, None ought to carry the ark of God but the Levites. For them hath the Lord chosen to carry the ark of God and to minister unto him forever. Now, where did David get that information? He got that information from Moses. He got that information. This is the way the ark was to be transported. This was God's way of getting this ark from point A to point B. And so David went back to what God said. David went back to how God instructed him to operate, and he said, This is the way we're going to do it. Now, read on if you will, please. Just skip down to verse 12. And he said unto them, Ye are the chief of the fathers of the Levites. Sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren, that ye may bring up the ark of the Lord God of Israel unto the place that I have prepared for it. For because you did it not at the first, the Lord our God made a breach upon us, for that we sought him not after the due order. Now look at the verse 14. So the priest and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of the Lord God of Israel. David said, even to the men that are going to touch the ark. Now remember, they're going to be literally touching the presence of God. That ark represented God's presence. And he said, You men sanctify yourselves. You're the right men, you're the Levites, but you better have a right heart and be living the right way because you're going to touch the presence of God. And you don't want a repeat of what happened to Uzzah. And he said, We're going to do this thing in due order, just like God instructed us, and so we find that they did. Now, go over to another place in 1 Chronicles 15. Look with me quickly at verse 25 and 6. So David and the elders of Israel, and the captains over thousands, went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the Lord out of the house of Obed-Edom. Notice this with joy. And it came to pass when God helped the Levites that bare the ark of the covenant of the Lord, that they offered seven bullocks and seven rams. And you can go on and read the great joy that they experienced. as they brought the Ark of the Covenant back to its rightful place. Now, I said all of that to say this The way you live matters. If you're a Christian, if you've been born again, it matters how you live. People say, well, we live in the age of grace, we sure do, but grace is no excuse for sin. We have the opportunity as we live for the Lord, and listen Understand this. I enjoy the presence of God to the proportion I live obedient to God God doesn't just lavish his presence on us regardless of the lifestyle we choose I want you to notice again that here in this Psalm, Psalm 15, David asked the question, Who shall abide in my tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? I believe that this was addressed to those Levites who were charged with the responsibility to carry the ark back up to Jerusalem. And he's saying to those men, now the people who live in the presence of God have to live in a different fashion. Dr. James Stewart used to call it living under the open heaven. And I realize that we live in a day of looseness. I don't know what's come over our society, but it seems like everything's just turned loose. We live in an hour of looseness. And even in the church, we seem to just uh it's it's no holds bar, everything goes. And again, I think we abuse what grace is all about. And notice with me again that the answer to this question is not uncertain or unclear. It's quite plain He tells me that those that live in the presence of God are living right. Now know this, you can't be right and live wrong. Not according to the Bible. John says, if you say you have fellowship and walk in darkness, you lie and do not the truth. I mean it doesn't matter what I say, it's what I do that really matters. And again, how I live matters. Do you realize that this question was answered with thirteen verbs? He asked two questions and then he uses 13 verbs to describe it. Now, I was not an English scholar, as you well know, but I've got enough sense to know that verbs equal action. And again, the Bible emphasizes, even in the closing of this Psalm, he that doeth these things shall never be moved. So let's look at these things. I want to just look at one tonight, he that walketh uprightly. Who is it that lives or abides in the tabernacle? Who is it that dwells in the holy hill? Who is it that knows something of the enjoyment of the presence of the Lord in their life? Who is it that knows something of the nearness of God? Well, those that walk uprightly Let me read you something. It says, true believers, this is in regards to this walking uprightly, true believers do not cringe as flatterers. Wriggle as serpents, bend double as earth grubbers, or crook on one side as those who have sinister aims. They have the strong backbone of the vital principle of grace within, and being themselves upright, they are able to walk uprightly. Walking is of far more importance than talking. He only is right who's upright in walk and downright in honesty. That was Mr. Charles Spurgeon, by the way, who said that. What does it mean to walk uprightly? What's that word? That word uprightly, we don't use it frequently in our vocabulary. Maybe you've never used the word. But it's a word that's often used in the scriptures. The Bible says in the Proverbs, he that walketh uprightly walketh surely. So, what does it mean to walk uprightly? Well, let me give you a definition before we look at three things. A definition of that word uprightly means to walk morally complete. To walk in integrity, to be sincere and undefiled. Now let me say this: that the only man who ever walked perfectly uprightly was the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus walked uprightly from the day of his birth until he was hung on Calvary's cross and bowed his head and dismissed his spirit and said, It is finished, and gave up the ghost. He always walked uprightly. But you'll notice here that the command of the scripture is: if I'm going to abide in his tabernacle or dwell in his holy hill, I must walk uprightly. Another word for that. This word uprightly in the New Testament is found in John 1. 47. Jesus saw a man by the name of Nathaniel. And here's what he said about him, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile. Now Nathaniel was not a man without sin, but he was a man who walked uprightly. He was a man who lived his life in an upright fashion. He's walking uprightly. Well, let's talk about this thing of being upright. Or walking uprightly. It's very important because the Bible says it's key to abiding in his tabernacle and it's key to dwelling in his holy hill. Let me just say this before I move on and remind you that that how I live and how you live really does have an impact on us individually and has an impact on us collectively. It does make a difference. People say, well, it don't matter how I live. You hold on a minute. That's not what our Bible teaches. Our Bible teaches us that as we live, as we live our lives, it's a demonstration of what's going on in our hearts. He says, He that walketh uprightly. You say, What is it? What where does this uprightness come from? Let me give you three thoughts quickly. And first will you go with me to the book of James, James chapter number two. And I'm going to read beginning in verse number 14 and remind you that this was a book of the Bible that a certain man in history had a great deal of problem with. His name is Martin Luther. Martin Luther has gone so far as to say that the this book should not be in the Bible. It's a contradiction. And perhaps even men whom God has used often say things that are not true. And that's certainly not true. It's in the Bible because God wanted it in the Bible. And the question of the book of James is not justification before God, it's justification before men. Men only know what they see. And so if you're making notes, what is uprightness? Number one, it's the product of faith. When you believe, now I know Psalm 15 doesn't talk anything or say anything about faith or grace because it's not talking about the inward working, it's talking about the outward working of that inward work that's already been done. You see, the man who walks uprightly has been made upright in his heart by the grace of God. And he walks uprightly because he is upright, because the Lord has done something for him. And James puts the spotlight on the exterior. He doesn't dig like Romans into the heart or dig under the covers and show you what's hidden that no man but God can see. He simply shows you what's out in the open for everyone to view. So with that in mind, look at James 2. 14. What does it profit my brethren Though a man say he hath faith and have not works, can faith save him? Now, what James is driving at here is something very simple. That a man whose religion only exists in his words is just simply deceived. Look what it says. Verse 15, if a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food And one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled. Notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body, what doth it profit? Somebody knocks on your door and says, Hey, I'm hungry. And you stand and ceremoniously say, Be you warmed and filled. God bless you and fill your belly and send them down the road. What good does it Are they still hungry when they turn away? Sure they are. Because all you've done is speak so many words that sounded good to the ear, but left their belly gnawing in hunger. Now James is saying there's no profit in that. Look at his next verse, verse 17. Even so, faith, if it hath not works, is dead being alone. I'm just going to say we've got every right to expect a person who talks to walk. You've got ev listen, we've got every We've got every uh reason to believe that if a person talks the Christian faith, they ought to walk the Christian faith. That our words ought to match up with our walk, that there ought not to be contradictions. Too much of modern-day Christianity is rooted in speech and not in steps. It's rooted in, well, I'm a Christian. Well, you know, I don't know, but it seems like we live in the day where even the devil professes to be a Christian. Because being a Christian doesn't mean what it once meant. But the Bible still tells me, and the Bible still declares, that faith without works is dead. Being alone. Verse 18: Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works. James is not advocating being justified by works. A man's justified by faith. He's justified by the grace of God. And the work of salvation is not in shoe leather, but it's in the old rugged cross. But what was done on the cross is going to show up in the life. When a person professes, he's going to possess something that will make him take a different course. Look what he says, verse 19. Thou believest that there's one God? Again, he's driving at this thing of just mere belief, a belief that doesn't bring about a change of life is is unsubstantiated. You believe there's one God? He says, Listen to this, thou doest well. The devils also believe and tremble. They believe and tremble. Many people believe in God but don't tremble. There's a belief that doesn't move them to an action. Verse 20, but wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? Was not Abraham our father justified by works? When he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar? Seeest thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect? And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness, and he was called the friend of God. Abraham had a faith that altered his direction. He had a faith that changed his steps. Yes, he had faith, and he believed God that was imputed to him for righteousness. And then you go on and read his life and see what God did in his life, and his life backed up his lips. What he said backed up his faith. I'm just saying tonight that to walk uprightly means that it is a product of faith. A person lives what they are. A person lives what they are. They live what they are. You live what God's made you. If you're saved by grace, listen, I know there's growth, I know there's development, I know there's uh a progressive sanctification that takes place in a person as they learn what the Bible says and as they yield themselves to the Lord. But I think a lot of people struggle to be Christians because they've never been made a Christian by the saving grace of God. I remember when my dad and and heard tales of the testimony of my dad when he got saved. God took the love of alcohol away from him. And listen, he uh there have been a lot of things coming in his life that I believe were sent of the Lord to stop that and and because he was destroying everything, but boy when he got saved, his love for that stuff went right out the window. You know why? Because he was upright. God was doing some things. Were there other things that had to fall off as time went on? Sure, there were. There were many other things in growth and grace that brought them about. But what I'm saying is, is that when you get saved, you are fundamentally different from when you were not saved. You are changed. And it's not something you do, it's something God does. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature God makes you the new creature. You don't make yourself the new creature. He makes you the new creature. Old things pass away, but all things have become new. There's a transformation of life that God works in the innermost part of your being. Oh, yes, there's much growing to do. There's much learning. And if anyone ever tells you they've arrived, you tell them that even the Apostle Paul didn't. He said, I am pressing toward the mark. He said, I hadn't apprehended that that I've been apprehended of. In other words, he said, I hadn't got a full handle on what got a hold of me. I've not gotten to the place where I don't need to grow. I'm still growing. And all of God's children are still growing. But fundamentally, you're made different on the inside. Being upright is a product of faith. Look what it says. Go on and read with me in James. The Bible says in verse 24, You see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only. Likewise also was not Rahad the harlot justified by works when she had received the messengers and had sent them out another way? And he goes to another Old Testament example. He says, look at Rahab. Rahab had more than a faith that just spoke or talked. Rahab believed. She believed the Israelites had been given that land. She believed that that Canaan was going to be their possession. She believed that uh the message of of these spies who came in who said, if you don't say a word and hang the thr the scarlet thread in the window your life will be saved. She believed all of that and she acted upon her belief and lived out her faith. I'm saying that that this uprightness is a matter Or a product of our faith. A person doesn't make themselves upright by doing upright things. A person does upright things because God has made them upright in their heart and their bent has been turned. Their nature has been changed. It is a product of faith. Quickly notice with me, if you will, the last verse. For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also. When someone leaves this world, that spirit leaves that body. And that's when we say they're dead. The heart ceases to beat, life ceases to be present, they're dead. And James says likewise: faith without works is a dead faith. It's not real. It's not living. Remember what Peter's words are? We're living stones We're lively stones. You know why? Because we have a living Savior. And if you're a Christian, the Lord Jesus lives inside of you, and you'll never convince me That someone as big as God moves into your life, it's not going to make you different. I believe with all of my heart we need to preach a gospel that saves the whole man. A gospel that changes the heart and changes the hands and changes the feet and changes the eyes and changes everything about. Listen, my friend, that's the gospel of Jesus Christ. He didn't come to save a man just to forgive the consequences of his sin. He came to save a man to deliver him from the very power of sin that rules and has dominion over him. So upright, to walk upright, is a product of faith. Let me try to explain it another way. Go back to the book of Romans with me. Romans chapter number 11. In Romans eleven, we read in beginning in verse number sixteen For if the first fruit be holy, the lump also is holy. And if the root be holy, so are the branches. And if some of the branches be broken off, and thou being a wild olive tree, wert graft in among them. And with them partakest of the root and fatness of the olive tree. Boast not against the branches, but if thou boastest, thou bearest not the root, but the root thee. Now, I said walking uprightly is the product of faith. Let me say it like this: walking uprightly is proof of the root. It's proof of the root. An apple tree produces apples because all through that tree Is the apple tree nature right down to the roots? The roots are are are the life-giving source. And as those roots draw up ne draw up the nutrients and the water and all of that and and and feeds that tree, it's feeding that tree so it'll produce fruit. And as is the root So goes the tree. What the root what's in the roots going to be born out in the tree. We had a a rose one time that The frost killed the top of it and I cut it I cut it off right fair at the ground. And I didn't know that some of those uh those uh roses they would often graft onto a wild rose or something with a stronger rootstock and I I was s shocked when the thing came back, but it wasn't the rose that I had planted It was a completely different rose. It had a different color. It was all different than what I had originally expected. And you say, why is that? Because what was in the root came out in the plant. You ever hear this old phrase, he's got the root of the matter in him? We don't hear that in church anymore, but I used to hear it as a little boy, they'd say he's got the root of the matter. She's got the root of the matter. What does that mean? That means the reality of grace is in their life. How do you know that? How can you say that because you see it in their life? He says, I'll remind you, you were a wild olive tree, but you've been grafted into the root of Jesus Christ. And you remember that the root holds you, you don't hold the root. He's talking about some relations there regarding the nation of Israel. But know this that what's in the root shows up in the vine. Can I say it another way? What's in the heart is going to show up in your life. What's in your heart's going to show up in your life? We can say all the right words, we can do all the things that we think we ought to do, but in reality what's in the heart's going to come out in our lives. One who's in Christ will have similarities to Christ. Those who have the root of Jesus Christ in them are going to see a difference and and the likeness of the Lord Jesus is going to be in them. It's not something I have to go around and force. Look, you don't walk out here And walk by an apple tree and hear that thing straining to make apples. You don't hear it out there just grunting and groaning and sweating and you know, just I gotta pr I'm an apple tree, so I gotta produce these apples It just simply draws up the nutrients of the soil and of the rain and takes in the sunshine and produces fruit in God's good time. And a Christian will be like Jesus, who will abide in the Lord and walk with him and yield their life to him, and they'll have fruit that will say, Jesus Christ lives in that individual. I believe we need an old-fashioned revival of a Christianity that produces a change in a person's life. We need a revival of expectancy that when someone says, I'm a Christian, their life starts showing it. I'm telling you that we're suffering this evening. We're suffering tonight from a lack of this in our churches across the land. Many of our churches struggle with the testimony because so many don't have one out in the community in which they live. There's no likeness to the Lord Jesus. I'm not talking preaching sinless perfection. Beloved, you f listen, the scripture tells us that if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. But I am saying that we ought to be different if Jesus Christ has moved in. And it's not a difference I have to work up. It's something that He works in and then brings out. The proof of the root. This thing of walking uprightly is proof that we have the root of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me try to say it one more way and I'll be through. Go back to Matthew chapter 7 with me. Matthew chapter 7 and let's pick up in verse uh verse number 15. Matthew chapter seven and verse number fifteen reads this way: Beware of false prophets. Which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles? Even so, every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. Listen to this, wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. Not only does walking uprightly mean it's a product of faith, it's proof of the root. But let me say this: there will be positive identification of fruit. A positive identification of fruit. He makes it very clear here that you don't go to a thorn and expect to get grapes. Well, that's foolish. You say thorns don't grow grapes. And he says you don't go to the thistle and look for figs because thistles don't grow figs. That'd be like you going to your garden tomorrow to pick corn off of your tomato plants. You're not going to get corn off your tomato plant. Your tomato plant only produces tomatoes because that's what it is. Your corn produces corn because that's what it is And can I say this? A Christian produces the fruit of a Christian because that's what they are. That's what a Christian is. They have that new life in Christ that produces fruit. You say, what kind of fruit? Well, go to Galatians chapter 5. Love and joy and peace. And you read the list. All of those things, that's the fruit of the Spirit. That's the evidence that Jesus is in there, that He lives. What I'm trying to say this evening is that walking uprightly, walking uprightly Is because the grace of God has done something in your life. Walking uprightly is a product of faith, it's proof of the root. It's the positive identification of fruit. And we've got to get back to the Bible and understand by their fruits ye shall know them. The reality is, my friend, if a person acts like they're lost, lives like they're lost, chances are they're lost. If their lifestyle is a consistent lifestyle of disobedience and a a love of sin and a hatred for God, to say that that's a Christian is to go against everything the Bible declares. And yet we live in a day where it doesn't listen, it it it doesn't seem to matter what a person says or does or how they act or live. It just seems like everybody lives under the banner of Christianity. And I've got news for you, my friend, that you must be born again. And when you're born again, there is an uprightness of walk in your life. There is a definite change that will come about. The Lord will transform you. When George Whitfield started preaching in England, The thing that upset the established religion of the day was the fact that he demanded a life change when someone was converted to Jesus Christ. They weren't Christians because they were members of the church. They weren't Christians because they were under the umbrella of some religious organization. Every man had to go to God Himself. And get his heart right with the Lord and be saved by grace. Every individual. I remember a man from Northern Ireland attended our church up north, and he said, he said, you know , I saw on your website that you preached the gospel. And he said, I I wanted to come to see if it was true. Here's what he said. He said, The problem in my country is that we treat everybody who goes to church like they're saved And he said, Pastor, sorry, sadly they're not. He said, sadly they're not. He said they come and sit on our pews on Sunday morning, and he said they hear a message of comfort from the Word of God. And yes, we need comfort from the Word of God. But my friend, if a person's not saved, there's no comfort to be found in the Word of God. The only comfort I get out of the Word of God if I'm not saved is that there's a Savior and His name's Jesus, and the answer for my sin is found in Him. And so I need to be pointing to him. And let me just say this, my friend, that we're living in a day where we're forgetting the reality that Jesus Christ changes lives by their fruits. By their fruits. You go over here in Melbourne Orchards and uh they've got all of that that orchard divided in various sections. If you walk over where the peach trees are planted, you know what you expect to find? Peaches. I don't go in the peach section of that orchard and hope to find uh apples. I'm looking for peaches And if you go over to where they have the cherry trees and you walk in that section, you walk down through there, you're not over there looking for apples or peaches, you're looking for cherries. That's where the cherries grow. And if you go on the back section where they have the the blackberries and and raspberries and all of that stuff, you go back there looking for apples, you're going to be sorely disappointed because blackberries and raspberry vines don't grow apples. You say, what are you saying? Here's what I'm trying to say. When you see someone who says I'm a Christian, you ought to be looking for Christian life. You ought to be looking for the reality that Jesus lives in there. You ought to be looking at a person who talks different, walks different, acts different, lives different. Why? Because Jesus has made them different. And if someone consistently Now I know what people are gonna say. I'm uh I I I can hear it now. What about Lot What about David? Let me say this. There were moments in both of those men's lives that their lifestyle betrayed the reality. I said moments. But the general course of their life was a whole different story. 1 John talks about a man who do who does righteousness is righteous. In other words, the lifestyle that he's living is a testimony to what he possesses. Christianity is not something we talk about, it's something we live day by day. It's not just something bound up in our words. It's something that's bound up in our walk. It's in the very whoop and woof of our being. Listen, you can't no more separate a Christian from his Christianity than you can wetness from water. Because Jesus Christ makes such a difference in that person when they get saved. I'm thankful in my life I've seen some people who I believe really got it. And listen, they lived it. They were one way. Before they got saved, they got saved, they were another way And it wasn't because the preacher haranged them and harassed them. It wasn't because they tried to clean themselves up. It was because they had fundamentally been made different by the grace of God and they were saved and changed by his great power. Just last week, some friends of ours celebrated an anniversary. I believe it was their 67th. Anniversary. So way up there. And you know what? When that man got saved, his life changed. Now I've told you his testimony, and I love that dear man, and what a witness for the Lord he was. God saved him, and it was just a miracle. His wife had been converted and prayed for years and suffered, suffered really , at his hand. He hated God and he hated the God of the Bible He said one time, if I could throw that Bible that laid on his kitchen table after his wife got saved, he said, if I could throw that thing across Canada, I would have. He hated it. It so troubled him. But when he got saved, when he got saved, he loved it. I've watched that man kiss his Bible You say, why'd he do that? He loved it. He just loved the Bible. That that man hated everything about Christianity. Now the Lord so changed him. He was a hateful man, a vile man He loved to fight and he'd drink and cause trouble. And when he got born again, the Lord took all that out of him. The Lord changed him. I'm saying, friend, salvation equals change. Know this, the Lord makes a difference. David said, Who's going to abide in thy tabernacle? Who's going to dwell in thy holy hill? Answer number one: He that walketh uprightly. And you know who walks uprightly? People who are saved by the grace of God. And my friend, it's incumbent upon us as Christians to live right. Because if we don't live right, number one, we won't be right. We just won't be right. And if we don't live right, we're not acting right. We're not acting right. We're not acting the way the Lord would have us live. Oh, I know we say, but preacher, but but this, and what about that, and and all that. But let me just say, God will give you grace to live right no matter where you are. God will give you grace. There is grace to do right. My pastor, Ralph Sexton Sr. when he got saved, and none of his family were saved. And he said in those days, you know, when uh it was a big family, I forget how many children was in the family, but he said when they sat down to eat, he said it was every man for himself. He had mostly brothers. He said there weren't much to eat, but what little was there, you better get it while the getting's good. And he said they'd sit down at the table. And he said, nope, you know, nobody would pray. And when he got saved, he said, you know, I felt in my heart I ought to be thankful for what God's given me to eat. And he said he remembered going to the table that first night. And he was somewhere down low in the ranking of children, had a lot of older brothers and sisters, and he had maybe one brother, maybe one sister under him And he said, I was scared to death to say to my dad, Dad, we need to pray before we eat. And he said it he just He couldn't get away from it. He sat down at the table and everybody started to reach. And Brother Ralph said, I stood up and I said, Let's pray. And he said all of them looked at him like wild eyed deer. So what's got into Ralph? His daddy looked at him and looked at those boys and And he said his daddy said to those boys, put all that back. I mean they had their hands full, their mouths full. He said food started going everywhere. He said you put it back. He said, All right, pray Ralph And he said they bowed their heads and prayed. He said, from that day till he left home, they prayed at that table. You know why? Because now listen. There are Christians that'll go out in a restaurant in public and you're so ashamed of the precious Lord that you won't bow your head and pray when you get ready to eat. That ain't acting right. That may be bad English, but I'm just trying to tell you some truth tonight. We'll drop a we'll drop a napkin and on the way down to get it, now Lord please bless this food and help me You know why? I'll tell you why. Because we're not living right. That's not walking uprightly. When you walk uprightly, you're interested in pleasing the Lord. You don't care about the frowns of men. You're you're not interested in in the thoughts or opinions of others. You want to please the Lord. You want to walk uprightly. I'm just saying, beloved Listen, God's called us to walk uprightly, and if I'm going to enjoy an open heaven and enjoy the presence of God and enjoy the blessings of the Lord, And know what it is to have his presence near me, then I must walk uprightly. And the only way I can is first is if I'm saved, and secondly, if I'm surrendered to the Lord and saying, Lord, I want to strive to please you Who shall abide in my tabernacle? Who shall dwell in my holy hill? He that walketh uprightly. Friend, it matters how you live It matters how you live. Yes, salvation starts in the heart, but it don't end there. Salvation is a work on the inside that makes its way to the outside Some of you are old enough to remember when people got measles. I've had both measles and mumps. They didn't have the measle mumps and Rubella shot when I was little. And when you get measles, you're sick first, and then the b the the measles show up. You don't know why you're sick or what it is that's making you sick, but then all of a sudden, lo and behold, there's the spots. And you can't no more hide that than anything. It's there. You got it. You're sick. I mean it's a telltale sign that you've got the measles. I'm going to say this and I'll pray and close. You can't fake Christianity very long. You give up Oh, people try. They try to live right, but they're not right, and you know what you do? You get tired of it and you quit somewhere. But you can't hide it very long either. If you get the real thing. You can't cover it up, my friend. It'll show on you like a good case of the measles. It'll come out just as sure as the world. Why? Because that's what Jesus does for everybody that he saves by his wonderful grace. Now, friend, let's walk uprightly. If you're not saved, you need to be. If you are saved, let's ask the Lord to help us to live like it. Help us to walk uprightly. Would you stand with me please? I'm going to ask our pianist to come and just play a verse