Open your Bibles please to the book of Ephesians. Ephesians chapter number five. And I want to begin reading in the first verse, and we're going to read right through uh several verses here. There one verse in particular that I want to highlight this evening, the Lord helping me. And we'll get to that here shortly, but in Ephesians chapter number five, if you found your place, I'd invite you to stand with me, please. We'll begin reading in verse number one. Ephesians chapter 5 and verse number 1. And the Bible says, be ye therefore followers of God as dear children. And walk in love as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling sabor. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as becometh saints. Neither filthiness nor foolish talking nor jesting, which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks For this ye know that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. Be not ye therefore partakers with them. For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are you light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth. proving what is acceptable unto the Lord, and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret. But all things that are proved, or excuse me, are reproved or made manifest by the light. For whatsoever doth make manifest is light. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time because the days are evil. Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. And be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. I want you to look at verse number two, and this will be our text this evening, and walk in love As Christ also hath loved us and hath given himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling Sabor. Father, we bow our heads now and we do need your help once more. We're so thankful for the Word of God. I thank you this evening for the hymns that we've had the privilege to sing, the songs we've heard. And the stirrings of your spirit in our heart. And yet, Lord, we come just as neaty as we've ever been, with an open Bible needing to hear from heaven And I pray in these moments, Lord, you'd speak as only you can speak and help us in the way that only you can help us. Our eyes are on thee. And so we trust in you, Lord, and pray that you would undertake, hide me behind the cross, help me to lift up the Lord Jesus. And Lord, just be pleased to draw near. And we'll thank you for what you do, for we ask it in Christ's name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. When you read Ephesians chapter number five, I think it's very wise that you look for repeated phrases. Now, maybe some of you are like me that you sometimes repeat yourself. Anybody that way? And uh sometimes you say and and you know you're reminded you told me that already. Well, I'm just testing you, right? I just making sure you heard me the first time. Well, I think we know what we're talking about there, don't we? God never repeats himself on accident. If the Lord says something more than once, he's saying something you and I need to really pay attention to. Someone has said that Ephesians chapter 5 is the walking chapter. Did you catch how many times the Bible said to walk in something? Verse number 2, here's the first one: walk in love. That's the walk of charity. Notice again in verse number eight. Walk as children of light. That's the walk of children. And then again in verse number 15, walk circumspectly. That's the the walk of being circumspect or walking circumspectly. Now, when you think about walking, and when the Bible talks about walking in the Word of God, it means to make progress If I can say it in this way, it means go that way. Head that direction. It also has the idea of making progress or advancing. You know one thing about the Lord that we need to remember is that He's always advancing. He's always moving in a forward direction. And if you walk with the Lord, that means you too are going to be going in a forward direction. That you are going to be walking with him and following after him. So again, this is the walking chapter. Think about what he says here. I'll come back to my text, but I want you to notice what he says in verse number eight. Walk as children of light. Here he makes a sharp contrast between the lost and the saved. He said the saved are going this way and the lost are going that way. And they're two different ways. Walk as children of the light. Notice he says in the text that ye were sometimes darkness, not in darkness, but did you see that? Ye were darkness. That's the condition of a lost man. We were darkness, not just in darkness, but darkness was in us that so much so that we identified one and the same. That's what we were. But aren't you glad when Jesus come along, he translated us out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of light? And now we're children, he says, ye are children of the light. Walk as children of the light. You say, Pastor, how does a child of the light walk? I'll tell you how. They walk after Jesus. They walk in the light John said we are to walk in the light. If we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and I like this part, and the blood of Jesus Christ. Cleanses us from all sin. That's walking in the light. We're walking in obedience. We're walking in the word. You know a Christian's not concerned about being cool. They still use that word? I don't know. But a Christian is not interested in being cool. You know what a Christian is interested in? Being Christ-like. That's what a Christian wants to be. A Christian doesn't want to fit in, a Christian wants to follow Jesus. Walk in the light. Walk as children of the light. Well what a contrast. I wish we could spend more time, but and he he he magnifies that in these in these passages about the difference between light and dark and how a saved person and a lost person are going in two different Paths or direction. But then he says this in verse number 15, walk circumspectly. Walk circumspectly. Now the word circumspectly means to walk awake. Or if I could say it like this, aware of danger. On your guard, looking. It's like you're walking through a minefield. Now, if you knew that these aisles in the church, that randomly somewhere landmines had been planted. I promise you you wouldn't walk down the aisle chewing chewing gum and uh whistling some song and just stepping wherever you will. You'd walk circumspectly. You would walk saying, that looks like a lifted spot in the carpet. I don't think I'm going to step there. That looks like somebody's tampered with it there. I'm going to be careful there. It it's it's walking s it's walking aware of the danger that that lies before you, walking aware of the potential of what could happen. Do you realize, dear Christian, that you and I are walking through a minefield? I mean, spiritually speaking, as a child of God, we are in enemy territory. And and the Bible says we're not ignorant of Satan's devices. The devil has all sorts of trips or traps. traps and he has all sorts of tricks and he has all sorts of uh places set for us and you and I need to walk circumspectly Now, how do we do that? Well, he tells us, and I'm not preaching this either, but I want you to see it. He says here, don't be a fool, but be wise. So, what's a wise man do? He gets full of the Spirit of God. A wise man, what's the will of the Lord? Be filled with the Spirit. Be filled with the Spirit. How does a Christian walk alert and aware? You don't do it in your own power. There are a lot of things that we are not sensitive to that the Holy Ghost alone sees. And so we have to walk in the power of the Spirit, and it is the Spirit of God who enables you to understand, hey, that's something the devil sent your way to trip you up. Or the devil uh the spirit of God says, hey, the devil's waiting on you around the corner. Don't turn that corner. It's walking full of the Spirit of God. He commands us And let me just say this before we move on, that this the fullness of the Spirit of God is not a luxury. It's a necessity. I think we sometimes think wrongly about the Holy Spirit, and we think if uh getting filled with the Spirit of God is okay if you want to be a top-notch Christian. It's okay if you've got some duty or responsibility. If you're going to preach or you're going to sing or you're going to be a deacon or you're going to do this, that or the other. Oh no. Every child of God needs to be filled with the Spirit of God. It's a command of the Lord. And the only way to be a pleasing Christian and a circumspect Christian is to be full of the Holy Ghost. And I love how practical the Bible is. It tells you how to get full. Did you notice that? He tells you to be filled with the Spirit, and he starts off by saying, speak to yourselves, or speaking to yourselves. In psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. A lot of the things you put in you Will have a greater influence on you than maybe you realize. Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, do you know what they do? They keep you full of God. They keep you full of God. That's why we need to guard the ear gate and put the right things on the inside. Again, I'm trying hard not to preach this because I want to go where what's on my heart, but I do want to say this. Be careful. Be careful. Music is a powerful tool. Music is not amoral. It has power. There's power. This lost world knows the power of music. And they know and have studied and have found out how to utilize it to produce a certain effect So you and I need to understand that if that be the case, and it is, then it's important that we're filling our hearts with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody our heart to the Lord, because it helps keep us full of God. And man, you need to be full of God, and I need to be full of God. We're walking and need to walk circumspectly. But then the third thing, and this is where I want to park for a little while, we are commanded here in verse 2. To walk in love. To walk in love. And the Bible says very clearly here that as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor. We have the Lord Jesus as our example as to what it means to walk in love. You say, what do you mean, walk in love? What 's the What's the command here and how do I carry that out? How do I walk in love? The more I've studied this subject as of late, the larger it's grown in my heart. There's so much said in our New Testament about our living and walking and demonstrating the love of Jesus Christ in our lives. And I think sometimes we overlook that and we go around that and we perhaps even dodge that because we don't want to be viewed as that crowd, you know. That religious crowd that all they talk about is love. And we know that's not all we talk about, but we do need to talk about it where God talks about it. And one of the beautiful things that we learn about the Bible is that we need to put the emphasis where God puts the emphasis. And God puts an emphasis on this thing of love. He says, walk in love. So what does that mean? How do I walk in love? Do I walk around like that little cartoon character? Um, Peppy Le Pew And he has an aura of love. No, it's an aura of skunk around him, isn't it? I believe that's what he was. He was a skunk or a cat? He was a skunk. I knew he wasn't no low-down cat But he walked he walked around, and you know he he that was his aura. Listen, that's not what he's talking about. We're not walking around some mystical goo or some kind of weirdness like that But there is truth about walking in love. What is it? I want you to make note, please. Number one, it is an attitude of grace. If I walk in love, you know what I walk in? I walk in an attitude of grace. God's grace. Look back here at John with me real quick. John chapter number one. Look what was said about the Lord Jesus. In John chapter number one and verse number 14. And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory of the only begotten of the Father. Full, notice it, of grace and truth. That's what Jesus was full of He was full of grace and truth. Someone said in Jesus was the perfect blend of grace and truth. He was perfect truth and perfect grace, and they met perfectly together in him. And when people saw him, they saw someone who was full of grace and truth. It's an attitude of grace. How many of you know you can do the right thing with the wrong attitude? You ever done it? Sure you have. You can do the right thing. I can still see Dr. Bill Day give the illustration. He said, Now boys, you can preach two ways. He said you can drive people from God or you can woo people to God. And he said, if I was, and Dr. Day was an old farm boy, he said, Listen, if if I was feeding chickens He said, I could take that scratch speed in my hand and I could turn that thing into uh pellets and I could throw it just as hard as I could and I would drive them away. He said, I can take the same handful of feed and I can lay it down gently on the ground, and they'll come towards me and they'll eat it. He said you can do the truth that way. You can preach the word that way. Christian, you and I can live that way. We can live with an attitude that is not a graceful attitude. Or a godly attitude, and our Christianity will repel rather than attract. But Jesus, the Bible says, was full of grace and truth. Look, everything we do ought to be seasoned with grace. Our attitude ought to be an attitude. Do you know you can give a tract out with a bad attitude? Here read this. Well, I don't know about you, but somebody put that in my end. I I don't want to read what they got. They got a bad attitude about it, they can put it in their pocket and take it home. That attitude, again, I want you to see something. When I walk in love, I'm walking in an attitude of grace. I'm demonstrating the reality of the grace of the Lord Jesus. Look at another place here in the Gospel of Luke. This is a fascinating thing to me. Luke chapter number 4, something that's said about Jesus here. Luke chapter number 4. And look at verse 22. And the Bible says, and all bear him witness, and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's son? I mean, they are hearing things they've never heard They're hearing things said like they've never heard them said, gracious words. They said, listen to these words You know something? As I've studied my Bible, a lot of the words Jesus spoke, they heard the same words in the temple. Did he not open up the scroll and read from the scroll of Isaiah? Did he not say many of the same things that were being said by the scribes and Pharisees in the context he was speaking nothing but the word? But what made the difference? Here's what made the difference. He had gracious words. He had an attitude of grace, and he was full of grace and truth. And listen, when you walk in love, you walk in an attitude of grace. Oftentimes it's easier to understand by seeing where it's absent And we find that in Luke's gospel. Go over there to Luke chapter 9, please. In Luke chapter number 9, and then, well, let's just go down to about verse. Fifty one. Luke chapter nine, verse number fifty one The Bible says it came to pass when the time was come that he should be received up, he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. and sent messengers before his face, and they went and entered into a village of the Samaritans to make ready for him. And they did not receive him, because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem Now, I think what's surfacing here is that old battle between the Jew and the Samaritan. Those half-breed Jews and their hatred for the true, for the real Jew, the pure Jew, and and likewise the Jew had a hatred for them And Jesus had set his face. He's going to Jerusalem. And I believe there was a bit of angst or a bit of conflict that came up out of this decision. And look at verse 54. And when his disciples, James and John, saw this. They saw this conflict. They saw these people say, we don't want you to go to Jerusalem. You stay here. Don't go up there. No, no, you you stay here. Look what they did. They said, Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven and consume them even as Elias did? Do you get what they're saying? Lord, they're opposing you. You want us to burn them up? They're standing, Lord, against you. Do you want us to set them on fire? Now what is that? Well, whatever that is, that's not the spirit of grace. That's not a gracious attitude. You know what that is? That's vindictive. That's vengeful. That's spiteful. They said, Lord, they won't listen, then I'll get them back. You know what? I don't think that spirit died with these two fellas I think sometimes God's people get that way. And maybe they're done wrong by someone and something bad comes that person's way. And you know what they say? See, I told you. They got what they deserved. That's not an attitude of grace, is it? Now look what Jesus did. Verse 55. But he turned. And rebuke them. And listen to what he said. Ye know not what manner of spirit you're of. He said, men, you don't know the kind of spirit you're showing. He said it's wrong. And then look what he did, verse said, verse 56, for the Son of Man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. Aren't you glad for that? Because I'm going to tell you something, if he marked sin, not one of us would stand. If our Lord were to give every person, starting with this one. And then it extending out this whole congregation. If he were to give us what we deserve, not one of us would draw another breath. Not one of us would see another sunrise. Not one of us would walk the streets of gold. But I'm glad we serve a God that didn't come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. He said, men, you don't know what kind of spirit you've got. Get that thing out of you, because that's not the spirit of the follower of Jesus Christ. I didn't come to burn men up, bring fire down from heaven. I came to die on a cross and save them from sin, rescue them from hell, put them in heaven, and make new creatures out of them. He said, I come to show them grace. Church, if you walk in love, you've got to walk in an attitude. An attitude of grace. You say, Preacher, how do I get that attitude of grace? The only way I know how to get it is stay with the one from whom it comes. Just get with him. You ever notice that we're such creatures that we pick up on what's around us? And we often reflect it. Some more than others, but the truth is that we tend to be more followers than we are leaders, and what others do. You get in a place where people are all anxious. I don't know about you, but I get anxious. If there's a whole lot of people on edge, you better believe I'm going to be on edge. I don't know why I'm on edge. I don't know why they're on edge, but everybody's on edge, so it's best just to get on edge. And that's our tendency, isn't it? I've seen I I've got a brother who does this every once in a while. He'll go to where there's a whole lot of people, the mall or somewhere, and uh he'll just stop and start staring at something. And you'll be surprised how many people stop and stare with you. And you don't see nothing and they don't see nothing, but nobody knows that you're not seeing nothing. Everybody's just standing there staring. And then he'll walk off. And there'll be a whole bunch of people. Just looking. You know what? That's just the nature we are. And what I'm saying, if you want an attitude of grace You get in the presence of the one who's full of grace and truth. You spend time with the God of all grace and You get familiar with the ways of the Lord and the word of the Lord and get that grace in you. The attitude of grace. If I'm going to be a walk one who walks in love, I've got to have an attitude of grace. But number two, what does it mean to walk in love? Not only an attitude of grace, but I want you to see the actions of benevolence. The actions of benevolence. You know, there's a statement about Jesus that I think speaks volumes. It says he went about doing good. You ever pondered that? He went about doing good. What kind of good? He did all sorts of good. In fact, if if the Bible says if everything he said and had done was written, the world couldn't contain the volumes. So there we don't have everything Jesus did written down for us. But we do know that he went about doing good. James says this concerning this subject. He says in James chapter 2, verse 15: If a brother or sister be naked and dis destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them , Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled, notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body, what doth it profit? Is there any value in words like that? I mean imagine someone knocking on your door and they're obviously hungry and they need clothing and they say, you know, I I need something to eat and I need some clothes to put on. It's cold. So of course it's not cold in here. We're just about that close to the tropics tonight, in my humble opinion. But anyway, they they say, Man, I'm freezing to death. I need clothing and I need food and And you know, you say to them, oh, you you do something real religious. You put your hands up in the air and act like a high priest and you say, be ye warmed and filled, and shut the door in their face. Are they going to leave warm and full? Are they going to leave having their basic need met No. They're going to leave just as hungry and just as cold as they knocked on your door. Why? Because you didn't take action. You didn't take action. You know, I noticed something about the Lord Jesus, he was always taking action. The Lord Jesus was never just saying, Oh, bless you now, be ye warmed and filled, and turning away. The disciples said, Lord, we don't have enough money. We'd take a whole year to get enough money to feed this crowd. Send them home. You know what they said? They're not our problem. Get them out of here. And the Lord said, give ye them de. You do it. The Lord, we don't have nothing. I mean, if we had a whole year's wages, we might be able to feed the crowd. And the Lord said, What do you have? Out of some paraphrasing. He said, What do you have? Well, we've got five loaves and two fish. Well, give it to me. Take what you've got and do what you can and watch the Lord do the rest. And the Lord took the five loaves and two fishes and fed five thousand and sent every disciple home with the takeout box. You know what he said? They took up twelve fragments, twelve baskets, and they all took and I believe those were memorials saying, See fellas what I can do. See, if I walk in love, I walk in an action of benevolence. I act. Someone said a need scene. I I don't know about you, but I I sort of get tired of people saying, well somebody ought to do something. You ever found how how hard it is to find somebody? I mean anybody can do it, nobody ever does. Somebody's always looked for, but that somebody is elusive. That somebody you just can't find them. Look high and low, they're always missing. Well, you know who that somebody is? The somebody who sees the need. I like this statement. I've got it in several places so I will remember it. It says that a need seen is an assignment given. A need seen is an assignment given. When you see that need, when you see a need, friend, act on it. That's what walking in love is. Jesus didn't turn away the five thousand. He didn't turn away the lepers. He didn't turn away the beggars. He didn't turn away the blind and the halt domain. He simply acted and met their needs. That's what a Christian does. That's what's what walking in love. Now, we believe in the gospel of the grace of God. I don't preach a social gospel around here. Listen, but there is a social side to the gospel that if I believe what I say I believe, it'll motivate me to act in a different manner. It'll engage me to be concerned about mankind and his welfare. I've heard missionaries really speak out against you know, feeding people when they're hungry or clothing them or providing medical care. But when somebody's sitting there and they're they don't have food and haven't had it in days, how do you think they're going to hear the message you got to tell 'em? You might as well just go beat your head on the wall. They're not going to listen. Their stomachs are hungry. I appreciate the Baltimore Rescue Mission and their great care of individuals that come their way. And every every person who visits gets a hot shower and fresh clothes and a belly full of food, all the foods you want. You can go back ten times if you want to. and a good place to lay down, and then you get the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's acting in benevolence. That's walking in love. And I'm saying, dear friend, brother, sister in the Lord, that if we're going to walk in love, it's got to engage something more than our mouths It's got to engage our hands and our feet and engage our giving and working and laboring so that we'll realize that, hey, people need to be shown this love through actions of benevolence. I read this text, I think, last week. I don't remember, but 1 John 3. 17. 1 John 3. 17, you know it. And let me turn over there real quick. I don't want to misquote it But it speaks to us about the love of God and how it generates in us actions of benevolence. First John 3, 17, but whoso hath this world's good And seeeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him Listen, God's love is not blind to basic needs. God's love is not blind. God doesn't turn a deaf ear or turn the blind eye and say, Well, I feel for you. I feel bad, and just turn and walk. No, God doesn't do that. There's actions here of benevolence. Thirdly, not only do we see if I walk in love, number one, it's an attitude of grace, number two, it is uh it includes the actions of benevolence But number three, it shows forth the attributes of Christ. It shows forth the attributes of Christ. Go back to Ephesians chapter 5. And look what it says in verse number well, verse 1 and 2. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 1: Be ye therefore followers of God as dear children, and walk in love. As Christ also hath loved us. Notice, as Christ, in the direct proportion that you love. In that same proportion, you show forth the attribute of Christ. You show forth Christ's likeness You know, in Acts chapter 4, Peter and John are on their way to pray. They're going up to the temple. And as they're going up there to pray, there's a man who's been lame from birth, and he's laid out at the gate, and he's collecting alms, or he's taking, you know, whatever somebody will give him so that he can live. He's obviously an adult man because his parents come along after uh the Peter and John get done and and they say, you know, he's of age, you ask him. So He's a grown man, he's an adult man, and he's been laying there his whole life, and he's been begging alms. I love what Peter and John did. By the way, they weren't so busy being spiritual that they didn't take time to be practical. Sometimes we get so wound up being spiritual, we're just not very practical And they looked at this man. And the man said to them, alms? He asked for alms. He wanted something from them. And I like what Peter said. This is a precious text to me. Silver and gold have I none. But Such as I have, give I thee. Such as I have. He didn't have silver and gold. I don't believe that means Peter was poor. It means he wasn't there to give alms on this occasion He said, Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have given by thee. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. You know what happened, don't you? Immediately the Bible says his ankle bones received strength and he began to leap and praise God. He'd never walked on those legs, but he acted like a kangaroo when he got on them. He's jumping around and praising the Lord, leaping and praising, leaping and praising, leaping and praising. Well Some stuffed shirt, I can hear them say, well, I would have act more dignified, would you? You never walked on your legs, you never had to the ability to walk, somebody carried you everywhere you've been, every view you had was from ground level, and all of a sudden you can walk. You'd be like a young colt let out of a stall, buddy. You'd take off and leap it and you know why? Because God had done something for you. And of course that tore up everybody's nerves and the religious people got a hold of Peter and John. You know the account. But I like what it says. I think it is verse 13. They said they took knowledge of these men. When they saw the boldness of Peter and John, they took knowledge then that they had been with Jesus. And I don't believe it's just the boldness that said these boys had been with Jesus, and I don't believe it's just the healing that said these men had been with Jesus. I believe it was the compassion they showed on the outcast that meant they had been with Jesus. Because I'm going to tell you something. You hang around, and I say that respectfully, but you get in the presence of the Lord Jesus And his compassion will get a hold of your compassion, and you'll start having an eye of tenderness to those that are outcast instead of being hard and uncaring. They took knowledge. They said, hey, those fellas, you know what? They they care about the same people Jesus did. They love the same crowd that Jesus loved. Watch them. Watch how they have. I mean, they were going to pray. Do you know how many people went to pray? Do you know how many people pass that old boy every single day? Do you know how many people just said, oh, there's another beggar? There lays another bum. There lays somebody. Just don't look at him if you look at him, you know. He might think you're going to give him something. Don't look at him and just turn a blind eye. But here comes Peter and John. Thank God they looked at him. The Bible says they did. They looked at him. And they looked on him. They looked on him steadfastly. They locked eyes with him. You know why here was somebody? God is about to do something in I'm going to tell you something, friend. There's people today, they might be living under a bridge somewhere that God in his grace could save them and put them behind a pulpit preaching this Bible. There are people that are living in places of degradation and sins took them low. But I've got news for you, friend. If the grace of God were to go their way, and my friend, they were to get saved by his marvelous grace Their lives would never be the same. But somebody's got to have compassion on them. Somebody's got to say they matter. Somebody's got to realize that we walk in love, and walking in love doesn't mean we go looking for our own crowd. It means that we look for opportunities to show God's love to people that need it most. And I'm going to tell you something, the world we're living in, you don't have to look far. You don't have to look far. There's a world around us dying. For somebody show them a little compassion. Now it gets messy. I think of that Samaritan, the good Samaritan. You remember he came upon a man who had been beaten and robbed and left in a ditch And two religious fellows have already passed him and they walked by the other. They didn't want to don't if I touch him, I'll be unclean. If I deal with him, I might get some of what he's got on me. And they turn go another way But not the good Samaritan. You know what he did? He got in the ditch with him. That's not meaning you get in people's sin. But there are times you've got to get on their level to speak to them about where they are. And he got in the ditch and he picked him up. And he poured oil in his wounds. He put him on his own animal and took him to the inn. And he said, Whatever more you need, he paid his debt. And he said, I'll pay it when I come again if he spends more. But he met a practical need. I'm saying, my friend, that the attributes of Christ are seen best when we walk in love towards one another. Please, don't get caught up in the spirit of this age Some of God's people have got so little love or God's love in their heart That we can walk by a sin -filled, sorrowful situation and never bat an eye Jesus warned us that the abundance of iniquity in the last days make many hearts wax cold. You just see it, and I get it, I get it. You see it everywhere you go. You see the effects of sin everywhere you turn. You can't you can't drive down the road or look perhaps out the window or maybe even walk across the hall. You see the effects of sin. And I know that it often makes us numb to what's going on, but oh, that God would touch our hearts and see that these are opportunities for you and I to show forth the attributes of the Lord Jesus who loved all men and gave himself for their sin and is willing to save the vilest offender And show them his great love. So, what does it mean to walk in love? It means to have an attitude of grace. An attitude that comes from spending time with the one from whom all grace flows. It means that we show it actions or demonstrate actions of benevolence that we uh Help in a practical way. We see needs and take them as assignments from the Lord. I believe it was our friends in Alabama. I'm trying to think of that family, the Seminole family, or the Seminole Spring Band family, their gospel family that sing. And uh Brother Norton, that's his name, Brother Norton, um told of a lady they had met who was a missionary, I think somewhere in the Philippines. And she had started a Sunday school class in a landfield, because that's where these kids lived. They go there and pick up food to feed to eat and what was thrown out of the cities. That's what these people were living on. And there was a whole colony of peoples that lived on these trash heaps. And oftentimes they, you know, the kids of course had no guidance and so they were just treated like animals. The police would just shoot them, leave them in the street somewhere. And she got a burden for him. And she went to this dump and started telling them about Jesus. Now friend, if that is not compassion, I don't know what compassion is If that's not, and and she would often take them food and claim and listen, she did that for many years. I think it was not right now on 26, 7 years. that that she had the opportunity to do this and the stories of the boys and girls that were saved and come out of that and the lives that they led afterwards living for the Lord Jesus were remarkable. All because one woman said I don't care what it smells like. I don't care what it looks like. I don't care what they uh what people may think of me. I'm going to go where I'm needed. And she saw a need and she said, that's where I'm going to go. And she preached the gospel and won those boys and girls to cry. That's compassion. That's walking in love. And that shows forth The attributes of Christ. You know, sometimes I think we get in our minds that we show forth his attributes, the more stern we are, or the more straight we are. Or the more doctrinally sound we are, and all those are good things. But listen to me. Nothing shows the attribute of Christ like walking in love. Because that's what he did. And you know what? I'm called not to follow you or any other man. I'm called to follow him. And every one of you sitting here are called to follow the same Savior. Walk in love as Christ hath loved us And giving himself for an offering of sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling Savior. Can I ask you, brother or sister, are you walking in love? How about your attitude? Is it a gracious attitude? Are we benevolent in our actions? Are we showing people who Jesus really is, not by what we say, but by the things that we do? May the Lord help us with that. Would you stand with me, please? Dear Father, we bow just now and pray you'll help us. Give us tender hearts to the Holy Spirit, who no doubt is working even now. And undertake, dear Father, for the great need of each heart in this place. I ask in Jesus' mighty name. With our heads