I believe that's a pretty good declaration to make. On the first Sunday of the new year, Jesus is still the answer. And no matter what the question is, he is the answer. And we appreciate that, Brother Dale. I want you to open your Bible to the book of Micah. Would you please, Micah, chapter number six, if you get to Jonah, keep going. If you get over there into Nahum, you've gone too far. So that's the general area. Micah chapter number six. And I'll just read one verse in your hearing this morning, and that is verse number eight. Verse number eight, and I'm particularly interested in five little words in verse number eight, and that's the last five words that I want to magnify here this morning. Micah chapter number six, and I'll invite you to stand with me, please, once you find your place in God's Word. Micah chapter six and verse number eight says, He hath showed thee, O man, what is good. And what doth the Lord require of thee but to do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God? I want you to look at those last five words. Walk humbly with thy God. The Hebrew construction of that word, of that verse, or that last phrase. literally means or says humble thyself to walk. Humble thyself to walk. God makes two requirements here, and the first one is we've got to be humble if we're going to walk with God. I want us to pray and I want to speak to you this morning on walking with God. As we come into a new year, I can't think of anything we need to do more important as believers than just to walk with God. Father, help us this morning. We need you. I bow before you and pray for your hand upon the meeting. I ask you, Lord, to speak to our hearts, and for these few minutes, would you separate us? from the cares of life and the distractions and all the other things, Lord, that would prevent us from hearing from heaven. And for these few minutes, Lord, would you in mercy empty me of me, fill me with thee Hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. Give each one an ear to hear what the Spirit saith. And Lord, I pray that you would walk and work in this place in a very wonderful way. If there's a precious soul unsaved, I pray that today would be the day they get saved. And Lord, if there's someone out of fellowship with you, let today be a good day. And the day, Lord, they get right with you and draw close. And Father, I pray that you would work in all of our hearts, for we are a needy lot, but we're grateful that we have such a mighty God. And so we look away to you this morning. We ask you to undertake and Father, we'll praise you and thank you for all that you do, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. You'll notice in that verse, and again I want to magnify those five last words: walk humbly with thy God. Walk humbly with thy God. The first thing here that I see is that little word thy. And the only way he can be your God is if you have been saved by God's grace. The Bible says that you must be born again. You cannot walk with the gods you do not know. You cannot walk with someone whom you do not have a personal relationship with The Bible says, how can two walk together except they be agreed? And listen, getting saved is agreeing with God that you're lost and agreeing with God that Jesus is the only way And agreeing with God that He is the only one who can take your sin away and putting your faith and trust in the Lord Jesus, that's how you get born again. And then you can say, He's my God, he's thy God, and we can walk with him. And then you'll notice again the Bible says to walk humbly with thy God. In Psalm 138, and I believe it's verse number six, the Bible says that He knoweth the proud afar off. That means there's a space between the proud and the Lord. Now you say, preacher, can you be saved and be proud? You can, but you ought to be ashamed. Um Sadner said it it's something we got from the devil. It was our birthday present that we all got from the devil. And we all did get that birthday present. But the reality is, is that if I'm going to walk with God, I cannot be proud. I've got to humble myself. Or as I said, the arrangement of this Hebrew statement is to humble thyself to walk. To humble thyself to walk. Now walking with God is going somewhere with someone that's important. Now you say, preacher, I read my Bible every day. That don't mean you walk with God. Preacher, I don't miss a service. That's a wonderful thing, but that don't mean you walk with God. Preacher, I say my prayers every day, I pray every day, morning, evening, whatever, I pray. That does not mean that you walk with God Walking with God is more than just doing a religious step or taking some sort of religious uh exercises And putting them into practice in your life. It's a whole lot more than that. And I hope to make that plain in this message this morning. Walking with God is is of utmost importance. In fact, Micah said, what does God require? What what is it that that is important? What is it that is that is requested of you? And and here is the basis of all of that The do justly and to love mercy at the very heart of all of that is to walk humbly with thy God. I want you to think with me this morning about first the definition of walking with God. What does it really mean? And I think Bible definitions are the best definitions. And so I want you to go with me to the Gospel of John, John chapter number 15. And I want you to look with me at a few verses. You're familiar with them, I'm sure, but I want you to see them in light of what we're trying to say this morning. John chapter fifteen, starting in verse number one. The Bible says, I am the true vine. Now get that in your mind that Jesus is the true vine. And my father is the husbandman. Every branch, now there's something different than the vine and different than the husbandman. It's the branch. Who's the branch? Well, everybody who's saved. You're a branch. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. And every branch that beareth fruit, he purges it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Now you are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. Abide in me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine, no more can ye, except ye abide in me. I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me ye can do nothing. Now that's critical to what I'm talking about this morning. Without me, ye can do nothing. Verse 6 says, If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch and is withered And men gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. If ye abide in me, my and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit, so shall ye be my disciples. I want you to see that great big word, abide. That's what it means to walk humbly with God. The New Testament equivalent of those five words in Micah 6. 8 is one word, and that word is abide. The word abide means to dwell or to live in or to live upon. If you abide in Christ, it literally means that you're living in union and communion with the Lord. Now he illustrates this with the vine and the branch. Now Jesus said that I'm the vine. I am the true vine. And I wished I had. I had my office. I was going to bring it with me. Let me borrow one of these little fellows. I've got a I've got a little tree in my office And uh it's got these little berries on it, and it's obviously a fake tree, as are these, okay But I want you to picture with me just for a minute that these little golden white things are the fruit of this particular branch and of this particular vine. And when you look at this, you realize, and you all know this, whether you garden or know anything about growing plants, is that for for this branch to bear fruit, it's got to be connected to the vine. Because it's the vine that gives that branch its life. And if you snap that branch off from that vine, that branch cannot bear fruit. It's utterly impossible because it gets its life from the vine. The vine is what feeds that branch And it feeds it everything that it needs. It gives it all its nutrients. It gives its all all of the water and everything that it needs. It gathers up from the vine. Now the Lord Jesus taught us something here in very simple terms that is life-changing if you ever lay hold of it. You do not get life by checking off boxes in your Christianity. I think sometimes we have we have simplified, I guess, or we have straightened our Christianity to a list of our okay now this is what I do. I read my Bible, I read three chapters, I pray. I go to church, I tithe, I witness, I I I sing hymns, I pray, and we check the box and we say, now I've got life. Well, that's as mechanical as sitting down and looking at a picture of food and saying, now I'm eating my meal. There's no substance or reality sometimes Now, all of those things I said should be a part of a growing Christian's life, but it's not the same as abiding in the vine Abiding in the vine is you and I making sure that we are in constant union and communion with the Lord Jesus Christ. That like these branches are dry drawing life from the this vine, we've got to be drawing life from the Lord Jesus Christ. We stay vitally connected to Jesus Christ in proper fellowship so I can get everything I need from the Lord. I believe a lot of times we think we need a whole lot of external adornments or attachments to make us spiritual when what we need is an unbroken attachment to the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is Jesus who will give you life. It's Jesus who gave you eternal life. It's Jesus who will give you all kinds of abundant life. It is Jesus alone that is our life. If I could illustrate it this way in a more modern term, there's a plug, you can't see it right here, but there's a plug uh right here behind this piano, down here at my feet. And if I wanted these lights to come on, and I don't think nope, they're not on, but if I wanted those lights to come on, I'd bend down there and plug it in. And if I plugged that that these lights in, they would get electricity from that plug and they'd come alive. The light would come on. They're not on because they're unplugged. They're not vitally connected to the source that gets them life. But when you plug them into the source that gets them life, they'll come alive because there's life in the source. Now there's no life in here, but there is life in here What I'm trying to say is there's no life in you and me apart from Jesus Christ. We sometimes think we can generate spiritual life. You and I can't generate spiritual life. You and I don't generate spirituality. We don't gener listen, here's what Paul said. He said, I know in my flesh there dwells no good thing. He said, I just can't produce it. There is nothing I can do inside of me that produces anything good. But here's what he did say in Jesus Christ. In Christ I have life. It's in Him I live and move and have my being. Abide in Christ. See, the Bible makes it clear, without me ye can do nothing. And I don't know that we believe that fully as we saw we should. I think sometimes we think, well, Lord, we can do everything but the big thing. We can do most things without you. You know. I need you if I go through a real deep valley, but other than that, I think I can handle it. You know what the Bible tells us? Without me you can do nothing. That means you can't leave I mean every you you say, preacher, do I need the Lord to get up in the morning? You need the Lord to go to bed tonight. You need the Lord to get up in the morning You need him constantly. He is our life. Colossians says, when we're dead, we're hid with Christ in God, and it says this, who is our life. See, the thing that keeps us from being self-righteous and just simply being religious or pharisical is the fact that we understand that all of our life comes from Him. That I don't generate it, I don't produce it. You say, preacher, I got standards a mile long. Well God bless you, I hope you do, but the reality is standards do not produce spiritual life. Jesus does. You see the difference? It's not what I do that generates anything good, it's what He's already done, it's who He is that makes me live. And if I can't look I can't live without him. In him is life. That's I've got to have him. I've got to stay vitally connected to the source if I hope to have any likeness to Christ in my life. I mean I've got to draw all of my life. I've got to draw all of my support. I've got to draw all of my strength. God doesn't want me to live on him a little bit. He wants me to live on him entirely , completely, totally, drawing from him life. The Bible tells us here that we're to walk humbly with God. Why? Because it's our life. We're drawing from Him. I don't know if you've ever in the spring of the year, we used to graft trees. And when you do when you graft a tree, you might take a rootstock that has a sturdy, it's a sturdy tree, it's a sturdy stock And you might want to put something on it that is not that sturdy and not that good of a tree, but it may produce real good fruit. Uh we had an apple tree in our yard. It was called a president's apple. And uh we planted that thing and Uh actually we planted on Mother's Day because we got it for Miss Elizabeth for Mother's Day, and that was the producingest apple tree we've ever had. That thing would make apples, I mean bushels, literally, bushels of apples from that one tree It was prolific. And you know what? I I was trying to mess with it a little bit and and reproduce it and it would shoot little uh shoots up from the bottom and I would take those and they would make some sorry old crab apple looking tree It was the rootstock was not the good stock. The the rootstock didn't have the life in it that the other did. But when we went to grass them you would cut that that tree and and cut usually a uh a tr uh diamond shaped thing into it and pull that piece out. And and I was always amazed by all of the stuff, the sap that was running up in that tree at that time of the year And and all of that stuff, that sap that was running up in that tree, was the life of that tree. And if you took that sap uh out of that tree, you'd take the life out of it. And if you take Jesus away from any of us, you take the life out of us. We're not just robots marching around following some train of thought or thinking and and and just reproducing, you know, uh it without life. Jesus Christ is our life. And we've got to remember something this morning. Without him there is no life. That's why a lot of our churches are fundamental, but they're fundamentally dead. They do not have life in them. Oh, it y they've got the outward form. They have a form of godliness that they deny the power thereof. And there is a fundamental form of godliness that is just as wrong as an unfundamental form of godliness. Both are just forms. And forms do not have life. But Jesus Christ brings life. We see the definition. It means to abide. But then I'm interested in this because it helps me understand. The Lord draws a picture and shows me a demonstration of walking with God. Would you go back to Genesis 5 with me real quick? The book of Genesis, our first book of the Old Testament, and chapter number 5. And while we see an illustration or a definition in the New Testament, we find an illustration in the Old Testament, and it'll help us understand what it means to walk humbly with God. Genesis chapter five, verse twenty one The Bible says that Enoch lived sixty and five years and begat Methuselah. And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. And all the days of Enoch were three hundred and sixty and five years. And Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. Now here's an Old Testament demonstration of what we're trying to talk about this morning and understand. Here is a man who walked with God. He's the first man that it's specifically said about him that he walked with God. He's the first man in the Bible. I know Adam and uh and Eve walk with God in the garden in the cool of the day. But but the truth is the Bible says exclusively, specifically, that Enoch walked with God. And I want to remind you something that the days of Enoch were dying days. You say, what do you mean? I mean it was deteriorating. Things were going downhill. Do you remember what happened when his son Methuselah died? What came on the scene? The flood When Methuselah died, the year Methuselah died, the flood came. And so we find that that Enoch lived for God. He walked with God in a deteriorating day, a dying day, a day where sin was running rampant. You say, preacher, I can't walk with God. It's just too hard to in this world. Well, don't tell Enoch that because he did. Don't try to say that my circumstances are preventing it You know what's preventing it? Our heart. It's not a matter of what's going on on the outside, it's a matter of what needs to change on the inside. Now in Hebrews chapter 11, we're given a little more information about this man named Enoch. In Hebrews chapter 11, listen to these words, verse 5, by faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death. And was not found because God had translated him, for before his translation he had this testimony that he pleased God. But without faith it is impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Can I remind you that when the Lord wanted to illustrate a New Testament truth in an Old Testament passage He uses Enoch as the example of the believers who would be alive in the last days when the rapture takes place when Jesus comes. And the and the the primary characteristic of Enoch was that he walked with God You say, Preacher, what are you trying to say? I'm saying the closer we get to the coming of the Lord, the closer we need to walk with God The closer the more serious we need to be about walking with God. Just like Enoch of old, he walked with God, and then he was not, there's going to be a generation of believers who will walk with God and one day they will not be. You say, where will they be? They'll be with the Lord. Because he's come back for them in the rapture. Now, friend, that's taught in the Bible plain and true. And there's coming a day when the trumpet's going to sound, the dead in Christ will be raised first, and we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. He's coming, friend. And the most important thing in your life is that you walk with God. Walk humbly with thy God. You know, there's several things about Enoch that are important here. And the first thing is that he pleased God. That's what the Bible says. He pleased God. He had a testimony, and it was not Earth's testimony, it was Heaven's testimony. The Lord said, Enoch, you please me. Now listen, we don't know anything about this man but this. He walked with God. We don't know if he was rich or poor, if he was healthy or sick. We don't know if his occupation, we don't have a clue what the man did for a living. We don't know anything about him except the most important thing to know is that he walked with God. And the most important thing in your life and mine is that we're aiming to please God by walking with him. Now, by the way, if you walk with God, that might put you out of joint with some men. But it's better to be out of joint with men than it is to be out of sorts with God. I'd rather be in step with the Lord and walk with God than to be in step with the world and walk from God. Here is a man who pleased God. Here's a man who exercised faith. That's what it says. He did this by faith. How did he walk with God? He walked by faith. See, Enoch didn't have the privilege that Adam did. He didn't walk with a physical being. He didn't walk in the presence of tangible God. He walked by faith. What does the Bible say about us? For we walk by faith and not by sight. Faith is the exercise of confidence in the revealed word of God, in the truth of Scripture. That's what faith is. So you say, preacher, I don't always feel such and so or this and that, but the reality is it's not how I feel, it's what does the Bible say. And what I do is put my head on the pillar of truth and rest there. I walk by faith. You see, Enoch walked with God by faith, and so must you and I In fact, I believe the further you walk with God, the more faith he will require. The further you walk with God, the more faith he will require. You know, isn't it interesting that in the early days of many of these men's lives, like Abraham, that God would speak and work and show them things? And then he might go twenty-five years and say nothing. Twenty-five years? Twenty-five years of silence? Twenty-five years uh uh uh uh of no more communication twenty-five years you know what he is doing walk by faith you heard my orders keep going I hadn't changed my mind. I meant what I said, just hold on. You be patient. Faith you know what faith does? Faith helps me trust God when when my circumstances say you can't trust Him. Faith says I can believe God because God's believable, God's trustworthy, He's reliable, regardless of what my senses are saying. See, we're a sense crazy society. If we don't feel it, we don't believe it. You know, if if i i if if we can't reason it out in a i i in a manner where i it makes complete and total sense to us, read Hebrews eleven. When I read Hebrews 11, hardly nothing God told him to do made a lick of sense. In that moment. Noah build an ark. Well, why? It's going to rain, gonna send a flood. What's rain? What's a flood? Build ark. Doesn't make no sense. Abraham, you're going to have a son. You and Sarah are going to have a son. He's going to be the promised son. Lord, we're old And then they got real old. And then they got real, real, real old, and the Bible says they were as good as dead. Right? Some of you feel good as dead this morning. Tell you what. Good as dead. That's what the book says. But God says I'm going to give you a son. I'm going to give you a son. Isn't that something? What what are you going to do? Believe God? Don't make any sense to me. How can a man and woman who's at that point in life, how can they have children? It makes no sense Well, it don't need to make sense if God says it. Need to get a hold of that. This higher criticism crept into our churches simply because we were looking for logical answers. Where we needed to exercise scriptural faith. You cannot reason out Much of what God does and much of what God is. Understand that? I mean, listen, what did he say here in Hebrews 11 6? He that cometh to God must believe that he is. Not understand that he is. If you've got it all figured out up here, you don't have a God of the Scripture, you have the God of your own mind. And there's a whole lot of modern Christians, that's all they've got, an idol that they've made up here. But the God of the Bible makes you realize that this up here ain't big enough to comprehend he who lives above. You recognize that he's greater than us, and infinitely greater. He had faith. Then I noticed something else about him. He must have sought the Lord because verse 6 is talking about Enoch. It tells us that like Enoch, without faith it's impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he's a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. This was the pursuit of Enoch's life. He was seeking the Lord. It's what he was after. Can I ask you something? What are you after? It may be this morning you sit here and you say, Preacher, I'm after the good life. Well, pray tell what that is. I'm after this or that or whatever. But listen, if you're not after the Lord, if you're not pursuing him, you're on a vain journey. Just empty. You're going to find that out. You're going to find out that that whatever you chase, if God's not the goal, then dear friend, you've missed the mark. God has to be the goal. You'll notice he pursued him. He was seeking the Lord. The Bible says God rewards him at diligently seeking. How does he reward them? He rewards them by finding. He re rewards them by by the fact that they find him, that they that they access him, that they get close to him, that they have a close relationship with him. You can know everything I'll never, Dr. Richards, I was thinking of the one of my Bible college teachers, and he used to say all the time, the easiest place in the world to backslide is Bible College. And I thought, how? How do you backslide in Bible college? We had chapel five times a week. Five times a week, somebody gets up for an hour and preaches to us. Every other hour we're studying some book of the Bible, studying some subject. We're constantly in the scriptures and constantly studying. And here's what he said. He said it's easy because it becomes familiar. And you lose the wonder of it all. And you know you can have a book knowledge and be cold in your heart A lot of our churches, we've got a lot of knowledge about the Bible. We know the chapters, the verses, the scriptures. We know what to apply here and to say there. We know all the lingo. We know all the words. But do we know the Lord? I mean, are we pursuing him? A lot of times that's just a mask for, I want to show you how much I know. That thing of uh just pursuing knowledge, a lot of times say, well, we want you to be impressed. I'll tell you something, you you live a while and study the scriptures a while, and you'll find out you don't know anything. The more you think you know, the less you do know. Man, the Word of God just really humbles us and shows us the reality that this is an infinite book because it's about an infinite God who's greater than our understanding. A man spend his life studying the Word of God and he'll find out he's just not even scratched the surface Somewhere we've got to come to a determination. We've looked at the definition and the demonstration here in Enoch, but I believe there was a determination that took place in Enoch's life. In other words, there came a point, there's a time. I'm going to walk with you, God, from here on I want you to notice that there had to be a time where he purposed in his heart. Sixty-five years, according to Genesis 5, he did not walk with God. He lived 65 years, the Bible says, and he begat Methuselah. And when he begat Methuselah, it says he began to walk with God. So, whatever happened when Methuselah was born made him purpose in his heart. I'm going to walk with God from here on out. Now we don't know what happened, but we can conjecture a little bit, because Methuselah, his name Part of the meaning of his name means when he's dead it will come. And somehow or another, by the way, they didn't just name their kids random things. When children were named in the Bible, it was for a purpose. And they were given names that often reflected things to come. And Enoch said, That boy's named Methuselah, because when he dies Judgment's coming. Now God had communicated that to Enoch somehow. Somehow he had heard from heaven That judgment's coming, and so I'm naming this boy as a constant reminder that when he's dead, judgment will come. And isn't it a mercy of God that he's the oldest man to live? That the man who when he died would judgment would fall, that God let him live 969 years. God wasn't trying to impress us with man's longevity. He was trying to show mercy to a world fallen in sin. My friend, listen, the fact Jesus hadn't come back doesn't mean he's not coming back. It just means he's given us another day of mercy. So somebody can get saved, somebody can get right, somebody get straightened out and start living for God. It's just mercy we're living on every single day. Methuselah, listen, when he was born there was a change in Enoch's heart. There was a change. It made him a new man. He said, From this day forward, I'm going to walk with God. You don't walk with God on accident. Now you may get up in the morning and fall on accident, right? You may have been walking in this parking lot and tripped and fell on accident. You may try to go down the stairs. I don't know anybody that aims to go down the stairs without trying to get to the bottom without falling. But not all of them are successful. And so you you but but listen, when you walk with God, you do it on purpose. Daniel purposed in his heart, he wouldn't defile himself with the king's meat. Why did he do that? He wanted to do this to please God. And I believe Enoch walked with God on purpose. He had purposed in his heart. Have you ever, my Christian brother, sister, have you ever purposed in your heart to walk with God? I'm not talking about get your head full of all sorts of knowledge and be able to answer questions and defy arguments and win arguments and debates and et cetera, et cetera. I'm talking about, have you ever purposed in your heart to come low before God and say, God who made me and God who saved me, I want to walk close to you and know you. You ever purpose that? You need to Here this man Enoch he purposed in his heart, but not only that, I noticed it was the priority of his life. You say, preacher, how do you know it was the priority of his life? Because it's the only thing we know about his life It's the only thing we know about his life. It was the priority. It was number one. The Lord made it clear here that Enoch, if anything we know about him has to do with his walk with God. Everything we know about him has to do with his walk with God. What's your priority? By the way, it's as clear as the noonday sun. It may not be clear to you, but it's clear to those that know you. Because they see that in you. I was telling someone about a fella and they couldn't remember who he was, and I said his name and what he did. Oh, that one. He he he's a big time hunter and that's what he li I mean that's all he does, that's what he lives for. He works so he can take so many months off and hunt, and that it's just that's his life, that's his priority, that's his goals, that's what he d dreams of That's what he talks about. That's all his life is about. And it's funny that those that know him call him by his name the hunter. This guy the hunter. There's a lot of guys have that name, but they're not that guy who's the hunter If we're talking about Enoch today, we're talking about the man who walked with God, Enoch who walked with God. The Enoch who walked with God. Hey, could you think of a better priority? Could you think of anything greater in your life to do with your life? Oh, dear friend, there's soon coming a day when very little will matter save this. The most important thing in Enoch's life was that he walked with God, and for, and I love this, for 300 years. He walked with God. Three hundred. Fifty something's a long time. A hundred someth's even longer. But three hundred years this man walked with God And it's apparent that there's no speaking here of a lapse, there's no speaking here of a deviation. He obviously walked with God right to the end, and then the Lord took him. Somebody said he got so close to heaven the Lord said, I better move you. And he moved him. Took him home. It was the pursuit of Enoch's life. I mean, he was he was walking, it was it was it was what he was after in this life. He wasn't here to make a name for himself. He wasn't here to get rich. He wasn't here to establish a legacy. He was here to know God. Brother, sister, is that your pursuit this morning? Nothing else is worthy. Nothing else is worth what it cost to go after it. Years ago my dad and I were driving a Jeep he had just bought. He just bought this 65 Willis Excuse me, 56 Willis. And he bought that old Willis Jeep and it had these big sand dune tires on it. And he wanted to go ride that thing and We drove it up to the end of the road, and at the end of the road the Tiptons had a house, and they had these boxer bulldogs, had I don't know, six or eight of them. That sort of were their guard dogs around the house. Those boxer bulldogs had the awful habit of chasing cars. And we're driving that Jeep and we're turning around there at the end of the road. There's a big cul-de-sac like place, and we turn around, and when we turn around, here they come, full force. Man They're just barking and yapping and showing teeth and they're coming after that thing, and I'll never forget they say it. He said, Reckon what they'll do with it when they catch it. I said, I don't know, Paul. He said, Well let's just sit here. Rather than drive off, let's just sit here. Well you know what those crazy things did? They bit the tires, busted two of those sand dune tires. I said, that's what they did with it. I reckon well, we never drove it up there again, that's for sure. Crazy things. But listen, you and I are chasing a lot of things and we get it and we wonder, what am I going to do with it What are you going to do with that that you're pursuing nearly to death? You're spending your life and your health and your time and you're investing and exhausting all your resources for that thing. And if that thing, let me just say this, if that thing is not God, it's not worth it. If you're not pursuing the Lord, seek the Lord. How? With all your heart That's the call of God upon us this morning. Can I ask you this morning to honestly answer this question? Am I walking with God? I didn't ask you if you read your Bible and pray and witness and go to church and all that. I I pray you do, and that's part that's part of this. I'll be more practical in coming days But I want to ask you something. Are you walking with God? Are you abiding in union and communion, like the branch does the vine? Are you drawing all your life from Him? Is the old song true of you? I'm learning to lean. Learning to lean. Finding more power than I ever dreamed. I'm learning to lean on Jesus. If not, and you're saved, you need to start today You say, Preacher, I got born again, that's a wonderful thing, but it's just the beginning of a life that needs to be lived for the Lord You may be born again, but are you going forward with God? If you're walking with God, you're going somewhere with somebody who's important. Are you walking with Him daily? Are you drawing your life and your strength and your help and your encouragement and your victory and your peace and your joy and your power? Are you getting it all from the Lord? That's what it means to walk with God. The call of this great text is once again, walk humbly with thy God. And if you're not saved, you can't walk with God because you don't know Him, you're dead in your trespasses and sin. You've been born separated. That's the way we all came into this world. Separated from God because of sin. We're sinners by nature, we're sinners by choice, and dear friend, because of our sin, we're cut off from God until the miracle of the new birth takes place. And when a person trusts Jesus Christ to be their personal Savior, they pass from death unto life. They go from being cut off to being welcomed in. They go from being a child of the devil to the child of the king. And it's a miracle of God. And if you're not saved, you need that miracle in your life. No amount of religion will do it. Don't substitute well I belong to, and I don't care what it is. Well I belong to Maranatha. You can be a bl you can belong to Maranatha and and go straight to the devil's hell. Because Marinatha don't save nobody. Baptist Church don't save nobody. Waters of baptism don't save anybody. Lighting candles, keeping rules, following all these, none of that saves you. Jesus, Jesus saves. That's the good news. And he'll save you, friend, if you'll call on him. But let me say to those who are saved, oh, walk with him. Don't waste your life not walking with God. Oh, I know it's not an easy path, and sometimes things happen and our hearts get discouraged and the old devil knocks the feet out from under us. You know what we gotta do? Get up and keep walking. Don't let somebody else's ignorance be an excuse for your disobedience. Because it won't cut it at the judgment seat. Well Lord I was doing good until well we don't walk with God because We walk with God because He loved me. He saved me. And He did something for me nobody else could do. And he's he's worthy. No matter what men who represent him do, he's worthy. He's worthy. I ought to walk with him and love him and put him first in my life. Don't let the devil dupe you. Make you his fool. Get back up and walk with God. You say, preacher, but I failed him miserably. Well, I'm glad there's a remedy. If we confess our sin, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. A precious brother said, that's not in my Bible. And I thought, have mercy, what kind of counterfeit are you carrying? And then he said, I've worried out. Rubbing it. Yeah. Huh? That tells me knows something about getting right with God. That tells me that brother said, you know what, if I'm gonna stay close to God, I've got to deal faithfully with my sin. I gotta get it under the blood, confess it, get forgiveness, and then get up and go on. And dear friend, you might need to do that this morning. But let me ask you once more: are you walking with God? Only you can answer that question. And I'd answer it honestly. And then I would answer it intentionally, not just to give an answer one way or the other, but Lord help me this year. 2026. What am I going to do with it? Am I just going to pass it 365 days like every other year, or am I going to intentionally invest it? In walking with God. May the Lord help us. If you do anything this year, let's purpose this. Let's walk with God. Let's just walk with him every day. Get as close to him as we can. This may be the year we get to join the was not. Amen. Could. You don't know and I don't know, but here's what I do know. In such an hour as you think not, behold the Son of Man cometh. This may be the year the trumpet sounds. And I wouldn't want to be found straying over here in the wilderness somewhere when the Lord comes back. I want to be as close to him as I possibly can. May the Lord help us to do that. Brother Dow's coming with our hymn