Blind see , he makes the dead live. And I praise the Lord for that. Mr. and Miss Mrs. Pharaoh, will you stand up? It's good to have the newlyweds back home. Good to see you folks and praying for you and was in a meeting this morning in Smyrna, if I'm right. Grace Baptist. Dr. Sargan, Pastor, and preparing and getting ready for the outreach this summer in Providence, Rhode Island. And uh Brother Jeffrey will be sharing that burden with us on June the 11th. And so uh, but congratulations again. And uh we're glad that you'd be able to be in church with us this evening. So you can be seated, thank you. And it is our privilege to have Brother Joseph Teague. Uh he's going to bring the message this evening, and uh he's become somewhat of a familiar face around here. And uh you pray for him. His father's Pastor Roy Teague of the Truth Baptist Church in Atwater, Ohio. And his father started that church about eighteen years ago. And uh the Lord's used them there. And Brother Joseph teaches the Sunday school there, leads the music. And I got a suspicion being the pastor's son just all around whatever needs to be done. So uh that's common for that position. But uh I appreciate him and you pray and let's hear him gladly. Let's ask the Lord to help him this evening. Thank you, preacher. Amen. If you take your Bibles with uh go to open up to John chapter number nine. As I was praying this week, trying to figure out what the Lord would have us to look at today. Had a lot on my mind with Memorial Day. And I was praying that the Lord would give me a a text that would would help with that. And uh he didn't. But I think there's something here that we can remember and take a note of. And uh when we were gonna sing I thought, well this would that'd be a good song to sing, so it'll be fitting. In John chapter nine We have a blind man that receives his sight. John chapter number nine, we're going to start reading verse 1. So then Jesus passed by. He saw a man which was blind from his birth, and his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin? This man or his parents, that he was born blind? Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents, but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. I must work the works of him that sent me while it is day. The night cometh when no man can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground and made clay of the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay And he said unto him, Go wash in the pool of Salome, which is by interpretation sent. He went his way therefore, and washed, and came seeing The neighbors, therefore, and they which before had seen him, that was he was blind, said, Is not this he that sat and begged? Some said this is he, others said he is like him, but he said, I am he. Therefore said they unto him, How were thy thine eyes opened? He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus made clay and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to the pool Sloam and wash, and I went and washed, and I received sight The title of my message today, I battled between a man that is called Jesus, and then what I ended up coming to was washed and came seeing. He washed and came seeing. Let's pray and ask the Lord to be with us. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this opportunity to be in your house one more time today. Lord, today's been a blessing to me throughout the morning service and nursing home and here again, Father. I pray, Lord, that We can just honor and glorify you today. Lord, I pray that you'll empty me and myself. Fill me with the Holy Spirit to speak your word. God, I pray that you'll just give me what you want these these folks to have. Lord, no one wants to hear from me, but they want to hear from you. So God, I pray that I'll be the mouthpiece this evening. I pray, Lord, that you just be amongst us. And if there'd be one person within earshot of this, I pray, God, if they're not saved, that today would be the day that they turn to you as their personal Savior. I pray for the Christian in this building and in within your distance, Lord, I pray that tonight would be a night that they would think about some things, and that the the day that they received their sight. And God, I pray that you just strengthen and encourage each one of us. Meet with us here tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This whole chapter, I I really wanted to read the whole chapter, but I I I didn't want to keep you here all night. But uh this first eleven verses give the the the main gist of the story. And we're gonna look at a few other verses here in the chapter. But the first thing I noticed when you come to this text is the first couple verses talk about Jesus was passing by and he sees a man who was blind from his birth, and the disciples were the ones that asked about How this man was born blind. They asked him there in verse two, Master, who did sin, this man or his parents, that he was born blind. Now you gotta remember these folks are Jewish people. And the Bible in Exodus chapter 20 with the giving of the Ten Commandments, Exodus chapter 20, verse 5 gives a reference to how the sins of the followers can go three in four generations. So these these Jewish men with that in their mind are thinking, you know, Lord, why why is this man in this condition where he was born blind? What kind of sin would cause this upon this man? But the Lord answered him, he said there in verse 3, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents. And, you know, we all know that, according to Romans 3:23, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. So clearly Jesus here was not saying that they had no sin in them at all, because we know that that's not the case. For it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. Romans 3. 10, right? But we understand that God Jesus here was speaking, he wasn't talking about the sin, as we would say, sin. He's talking about the sin to cause this blindness. See, a lot of times we get in our lives and we have tragedy and things happen to folks, good Christian people, and we wonder why. I often look at folks, I know there's a this is just one thing that came to my mind with last couple weeks ago being Mother's Day. I know a good Christian couple that have been married for years and they've been praying they couldn't they can't have children And they've been on adoption lists and uh trying to wait and trying to get a baby. They wanna have a child so bad, but they haven't been able to have one. And you look at this and I think about as these disciples question, they say, Why would that happen to those folks? You know, we often wonder why things like that happened. Why was this man born blind and lived all these years begging because he was blind? And you know, Jesus gave us a good answer that we needed to take to remembrance there in verse three. He said it's not about the sin. Neither hath this man sinned nor his parents, but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. You know, so often we get up down on what's going on in our lives when we forget that we are a light to the world. As the Hitchens saying this morning about the being the lighthouse. You know, the Lord is the lighthouse, but we're to shine the light of the Lord, right? And, you know, so oftentimes we forget that this is God has a plan. And the plan is that God should be made manifest in him. In the blind man is what he's talking about. In this blind man, my work will be shown, will be made manifest. The same thing applies to us, folks. God's work is to be made manifest in us. It's to be shown through us. You know, Jesus then goes on to say in verse 4 and 5 that he is the light of the world. And the time's drawing to a close. We understand that as we look around today, it's not uh hard to imagine or believe that the end is getting close. You know, the folks in the Bible time thought it was coming very soon right then and there. That's been how many years ago? But here we are today, and it could be tonight. It could be tomorrow. Are we making the works of God manifest in us? You know, the thing is, I look throughout the Bible here and I read, and people get discouraged about things. But our Bible tells us in Hebrews 13:8 that Jesus is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And just as Jesus here in this day showed his disciples, and this blind man, and this blind man's family, and all those that knew him The mighty work of God through this man's life. This man was sitting there blind, and what a day that was when the Lord passed by him. I think back about the time when the Lord passed by me, right? Think about if you're saved when the Lord passed by you and showed his glorious gospel light to you What a blessing that was. What a blessing that is. If it hasn't happened, today's a good day to accept that. I uh I read this text and my title was for the sermon there comes out of verse seven. That in he washed and came seeing. You know, this blind man is going to see a few things. Obviously, he sees the world for the first time. And I think about what a a gift that would be for someone that was blind to then receive sight. And I can see, I wear glasses, so it helps a little bit. Even without 'em I can see somewhat. I'm not completely blind, and I thank God for my vision. We don't thank him enough for stuff like that though. As this man here, he would have loved to have at least some sight in one eye probably, but he had nothing. Blind from birth. But here, the Lord decided he's going to do a mighty work for this man. Verse 6 there, I thought it this was an interesting It's always when I was a kid, even in Sunday school, and read this text, I always thought it was funny that the Lord spat on the ground and made clay. And you know, I I'm a truck driver by trade and I don't mind getting dirty. I don't mind getting my hands dirty, I don't mind getting my my clothes dirty. I lay under a truck sometimes working on things when I have to. I don't really like to, but it happens. But I don't like when my face gets dirty. When something gets on your face I used to work on the farms and stuff and I'm not to go in too much detail, but I don't like gett stuff getting on my face. It just disgusts me a little bit. But I think about this blind man, you know, you c think about close your eyes and you hear someone speaking to you. You don't know what's going on in front of you. And then the next thing you know, you've got these muddy wet hands rubbing on your eyes What are you doing? You know that's what I would that that's what I picture. But this man he he didn't he didn't get mad at the Lord for rubbing mud on his face. Because the Lord's force is go and wash in the pool of Sloam. It says there in verse 7 that he went his way, therefore. And washed, and came seeing. This blind man, he sees salvation here in verse 7. And uh he sees it because he had the faith to obey. You know, I I think about how often we don't have enough faith to obey the Lord. You know, something so simple as to just go and wash his face in this pool of saloon. But to him might have seemed dumb or silly. I think about this this man he he's blind and gets the clay rubbed on his face, and the Lord says, Go wash. Well, yeah, I gotta go wash now, he just put mud on my face. But he doesn't you don't see that in the text. I don't believe that's what happened. I believe he knew who he was speaking to. Slightly. It shows in the text really that he didn't understand fully who he was talking to, but he knew He had enough faith to know something was going on there mightier than he. And uh he went and washed and came seeing. Think about what a blessing that is. You know All throughout the Bible, every person that's been that's healed in the Bible, I like to take note of how people get healed in the Bible. Just reading through Acts recently and and stuff, you notice it's all their faith that heals them. It's your faith that'll get you saved today, folks. It's all through faith. You look at the Old Testament saints who were saved, read Hebrews 11. It's by faith. By faith. Abraham believed God in Genesis chapter 15. His faith is what made him whole. Throughout the Bible in John 9, uh Excuse me, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9 tells us it's by grace you're saved through faith. And we see all throughout the Bible, account after account, where the blind received their sight, the woman with the issue of blood, thy faith hath made thee whole. Go thy way, thy faith hath made thee whole. We see that. We can see his salvation here because of the faith. The next thing I notice is he sees a shift. The blind man sees a shift. in his position and and his life. And not only does he see it, the people around him see it. I I love how verse eight says it there, the neighbors therefore which had seen him That was he was blind, said is not he that sat at the gate, sat and begged, excuse me. You know, folks see this man that was blind, but now he's going around and he's not blind anymore. And they say, wait a minute, is this not he? They 're confused. They're in verse nine, they say it couldn't be. It's somebody who looks like him because he was blind. But they don't know the Lord. How the Lord can r restore sight to a blind man from birth. You know, just as the same picture applies to us today. When you by faith trusted in what the Lord said and believed on the Lord, and you received your spiritual sight. Folks around you should see the shift just as you should see the shift. There should be a change in your life. Uh I was talking about trying to figure out how to do letters to to uh go with the the text And uh I had in here a change and then I I got out a a dictionary and found out a shift. I looked at the the definition of shift just for curiosity. Well what that means, I think about Johnny over here as a fast guy. Shifting gears, right? Uh I drive trucks like jam gears and I'm not going very fast. But he's a speed guy, you know, gears make you go faster and they change your position. He's shifting here. The blind man had a had a change. What a change that was. And it was such a noticeable change that it stirred some some questions all about the whole people, and not just the neighbors around him But in another area as well, the blind man so quickly sees a spiritually dead religion Verses eleven on down through about verse nineteen or twenty or ish there Is where the Pharisees catch wind of what's going on. The religious folks hear what happened to this blind man and they got it, they got questions. And they call him in there and uh That's when he tells them there in verse 11, a man that is called Jesus made this clay. Pastor preached this morning, but The Lord, but Jesus, right? But Christ. What a blessing it is to think about that man called Christ. That man called Jesus. And when we've seen him, right? What a blessing it is. He sa he tells them there that it's a man called Jesus that did this. And they have questions and they have problems with this because why? Because they're so spiritually minded they can't see God in their own spiritual dead religion. We have the same problem today with dead religion. That they they follow their traditions of man, as the Bible says, rather than the commandments of God. We can see it today so so uh uh relevant on every corner with a different church by a different stripe and a different name. They're spiritually dead. Why? Because they don't have the Lord. They don't know the Lord. They don't see Him. Here in the text in John They have questions. They ask the parents in verse 20. In verse 21, they tell the Pharisees, but by what means he now seeth we know not. Who hath opened his eyes we know not. He is of age, as Kim, he shall speak for himself. If you read on, you understand they're afraid of what's going to happen if they proclaim the Lord. But verse 24, they call the man that was blind and said unto him, Give God the praise. We know that this man is a sinner. Well I'm a they don't know Jesus sin, my friend. Because we know Jesus wasn't no sinner. Verse twenty-five, this is the blind man. The blind man he he he answered and said, Whether he be a sinner or no. I know not. One thing I know, that whereas I was blind, now I see This blind man sees the religion of the world around him and how they're saying that this man that gave you sight can't be of God. Quit saying that this is an honorable thing of God because he can't be. And he says, I don't know the answers to your questions, but here's what I know. I could not see an hour or so ago, but now I can. So there's something to this man called Jesus because now I can see. You know, I think about how many times we as Christians forget about when we couldn't see. And we get wrapped up on things, we just need to go back to the fact that there was a time when I was blind, but now I see. Thank God for that. They ask him again there how this happened, and he just tells them the same thing. He says, I I already told you once before. And I notice something else. He sees a spiritually dead religion, and then he sees a sermon and preaches it. The blind man. Verse 30. The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is a marvelous thing that ye know not from whence he is, and yet he hath opened mine eyes Now we know that God heareth not sinners, but if any man be a worshipper of God and doeth his will, him he heareth. Since the world began Was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind? If this man were not of God, he could do nothing. This is the blind man who a few hours later was sitting on the side of the street begging because he could not work and hold a job because he's blind. He has no idea really the depth of who this man called Jesus is, but he stands up and does a little sermon for him, gives a little sermonette. What a blessing that is. You know, when you see salvation, you see that shift in your life, and you see a spiritually dead religion around you, you ought to see a sermon. If you don't, there's some issues. You ought to see an opportunity where you can say, Thus saith the Lord about something. You know, if this man were not of God, he could do nothing. That's what he says there at the end of it. Verse 34, they they cast him out. Oh, but verse 35. Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and when he had found him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him? Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him. And it is he that talketh with thee. And he said, Lord, I believe, and he worshiped him. You know, this is when it all came together for him. What a blessing that is. The blind man, he's seen salvation, he sees a shift or a change in his life, he's seen the spiritually dead religion, he sees a sermon and he preaches it, but then he sees his Savior. He sees the Savior. I uh none of us in this room have ever seen our Savior face to face, right? No one's two thousand years old? Anybody? No? Okay. We understand that no one has seen him. But this man got to see him face to face. Well, I think about there's several folks that the Lord gave sight to. Several of them. The one particular blind Bartimaeus, I think about, he immediately received his sight. Now think about if you were blind, and the first face you see is Jesus Christ. What a blessing that is. Think about the first thing you see is the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, my friend, if you were saved When you asked the Lord to save you and you you received your spiritual sight, spiritually the first face you should have seen was the Lord. You should have seen that picture of that cross in your mind. I know I did. I know I often think about I love uh Resurrection Sunday. So it's one time out of the year where most all the attention is put towards the cross. We should celebrate that more frequently. But to think about that, usually around that time of year, I spend a lot of time reading the crucifixion text. And how sobering it is to think about. Sad. Just as we were talking about with Memorial Day here on uh tomorrow, all the lives that were given. All the lives that were given so that we could have freedom. To do this right here. And all the other things that we're allowed to do in this great country. What a blessing that is to think about the freedom given because someone gave their gave their life. You know, the Lord Jesus Christ gave his life, just as Pastor preached this morning to free us What a blessing that is. You know, we we see the in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verses 3 and 4, it says, But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. And whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ Who is the image of God should shine unto them. You know, before salvation, we're all blind. And this world around us is blind. You can see it, they're blind to the Lord. You don't have to look very very far out there to know that they're they're blind to the Lord. They're blind to anything that's in this blessed old book. And it's sad. You know what that ought to do? That ought to stir us a little bit. It ought to stir us up a bit. Just as this blind man, when he received his sight, the things he's seen. Maybe the world wasn't quite as beautiful as he had pictured. You know, when you I think about things that Are ugly when you're in a a place a a church or something. I don't know if you've ever seen a a church fight between supposed Christian people. Well it's not very pretty, is it? It's ugly. Now think about how he's in the midst of that Jewish temple with the Pharisees, the supposed religious people. And how how hateful and wicked they were towards him for being able to see now How that should stir us up or think about that. What what do the blind folks that just received their sight see in you? You know, uh we are I've heard it said that sometimes you're the only Bible some folks will ever read, and I probably believe that. Because they do. People watch you, people see you. They know about you uh uh and if you live a good testimony, they'll know where you stand on things. You won't have to tell 'em. I uh My job I I I drive truck for construction and and the my boss is very good. He he helps me out to get out for church and different things like that and and uh if I let him know I got something coming up, he'll usually try to get me off. But he's told places apparently when I go to drive for them. Hey, watch your mouth around him. He's like a preacher or something. That was a quote apparently. And I I I walked into the one place I had been there for a couple days and hadn't been up to the the tower because they all do all on the radio mostly. But I had to go up to the tower, give him some tickets, and I walked up there and he was on the phone just cursing up a storm I was just standing there waiting my time. Hey as soon as he hung up the phone, he turned around and he says, I am so sorry. Never met this man before in my life. Never even seen him. He said, I'm so sorry. Please please forgive me for that. He says, I know your boss told me about you. And I said, Oh, has he? What do you say? But you know, that's that's the way it should be. People should know something. But the problem is, if he'd have hung up that phone and I'd have started cursing right around with him with whatever was going on on the on the other end of that, well he'd heard about me. I didn't know he'd heard about me. You don't know what people see or hear about you. What's the first thing the blind people see in you? Is it the Lord Jesus Christ? That convicts me when I think about that. People are always watching you everywhere you go. This blind man seen that. But he sees the change in his life. What a blessing that is to think about that. And I know a lot of people today want to push this. Non-repentant type of salvation. But I don't understand how something as big as God and holy as God can move into your life and you not have any change. You know, there ought to be a shift. Second Corinthians 5 17 told us that therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. All things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. There should be pure evidence, without a doubt, that there is a change in your life. If you trusted Christ by faith through great through his grace by faith There should have been a transformation within your life, just as this blind man, when he obeyed the word of God, when he obeyed the word of the Lord When you hear the Lord say, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, I will give you rest. When you answer that call, you should feel a change. And that change should display an outward appearance where others will notice it. I notice if you you want to you can flip over to Acts chapter number four When I had mentioned earlier about his sermon, we all should have a sermon to preach Acts chapter number four and verse ten is where we'll begin reading. If you're having any questions about what your sermon should be, this is it. Acts chapter 4, verse 10 says, Be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified. Whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole. This is where Peter and John uh did a a healing on the man that sat and begged for alms, if you remember. Verse 11, this is a stone which was set at naught of you builders, which has become the head of the corner. Verse 12 is one of my favorites. Neither is there salvation in any other. For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Now, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled and they took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus. There's there's some evidence. When we've come from that spiritual blindness into the light of the glorious gospel, and we have that new song, that new sermon in our heart, there should be It should be evident to all those around us. Now I'm not saying everyone has to stand up and and proc and preach, but you should have a personal testimony of proclaiming the gospel to everyone that you can. With boldness, just as Peter and John did here. You know, this this miracle here in Acts, just the same as in John, there, the religious folks have a serious problem with that. The religious people that are lost in the same area we're in today have a problem with a real salvation. When someone is truly made whole by the Lord Jesus Christ, they have some issues with that because it goes against their grain. But the thing that's all that has stood out to me, and this is kind of what kick-started all this with my study, and is there in verse 16 of Acts chapter number 4. A man has been healed and they had this counsel with Peter John asking about it and saying, You got you can't be preaching about Jesus no more But they get to themselves and they they had a little conference there in verse fifteen but when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves, saying, What shall we do to these men? For that indeed a notable miracle has been done. By them is manifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it. You cannot deny when the Holy Spirit moves into a a a lost sinner and changes his life. They can't deny it. You can't deny that. When someone truly is born again, hits their knees with a repentant heart and ask the Lord to say, Lord, be merciful to me to a sinner. That change when he gets up is not deniable. Can it be denied in you and I tonight? If we walked out in the world, would they say, Ah , I don't think he's saved I don't think she's saved. Could it be said about you? Or can they say, we cannot deny that we see the Lord on that person? Can't deny it. There's been a mark a notable miracle done in each lost sinner that's ever been saved. That's a notable miracle. You may not have ever seen a dead person raised up or a blind person receive their sight, but if you've been born again, you've received a notable miracle, my friend Greater than anything uh physically that ever could be done to somebody. You know why? Because you've you've got the Holy Spirit of God that has moved into your heart and your life and has transformed you into that new creature And you're awaiting what what glories are in heaven for you. Whew, what a miracle that is. But think about that. I don't deserve any of that. Walking on streets of pure gold, seeing my blessed Savior's face, just as this blind man did, not of my own merit. Nothing I could do to deserve that But just because Christ said, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. God told us that in His blessed word. Whosoever. I I I I've heard several preachers throughout the time that whenever you come to a whosoever, you just put your name in there I'm glad that there was a time when I prayed and asked the Lord to save me. When I was four years old, I asked the Lord to save me I remember, and just as Pastor said, I I also heard a person say that about a prayer, about remembering the words to what you've prayed. And I don't remember, I was four years old. But I remember sitting there with my dad, and he had his his old Bible that the corners was all tore off, and he sat there on his brown recliner that had Fritos all in it. And he opened that book up and he showed me how to be saved. I remember that when I was four years old. And from then on to my teenage years, I was in church, and I was my dad was the starter of that church. We left our sending church, started our church when I was eight years old, and I was in that. And I I I don't know. W I don't know that uh I can't wrap my mind around why But I I yielded to the devil for a long time. And I ran away from what I had been taught because it didn't seem to mesh with what I wanted and what was popular around me Thank God for the blessed truth that train up a child in the way he should go when he's old and not depart from it. I had enough in my in my head. To understand what I needed. But there was something else. Because I was talking with somebody about this uh a while back, a pastor that had a very similar testimony. And I said to him, I said, was I saved when I was four years old? Or did I get saved when I rededicated my life to the Lord? He said, Well I don't you know obviously he don't know the answer to that. But I tell you what I what I come from while after talking with him for a while No matter what, there was always, I felt that Holy Spirit inside of me saying, You know that's wrong. You know that I'm not pleased in that. And the more I the more I I I would do, the more I felt that. You 'd never be satisfied in that. Let me tell you right now, folks, if you are truly born again, you will not be satisfied with sin. You can't be. Because that with i that is within you can't can't be a part of that. They'll say, No, no, no, that's not okay. And praise God for that loving kindness of our God. 1 John 1:9. That we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins. Cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I'm thankful for that. I'm thankful for a Wednesday night church service. I finally decided that you know what? I'm sorry, Lord. Because I have just squandered what you gave me The blessed Holy Spirit, blessed salvation, that blessed sight, spiritual sight. If this blind man that received his sight here would have gone back and sat down and begged and did nothing with his sight, what a tragedy. What a waste. I think about how worthless and undeserving we all are. But God saw fit while he passed by to give you some sight. If you're here tonight, thank God that he directed you here. Thank God for that. Maybe you have been saved. Maybe you're just off in sin or drifted off or slightly not where you should be. Then we got that Holy Spirit saying, What are you doing with your sight tonight? We have a blessed hope coming for us of seeing our Savior. You know, he's coming again, folks. He's coming in the clouds. And we're gonna see him. Are you excited about that? If he'd come tonight, would you be excited about that? Or are you gonna be like, uh oh. Uh-oh. Think about this man, and I'll be done here now. This man in John chapter 9, when he saw the Lord and he understood who he was. And I think honestly folks that none of us have understood who the Lord truly is. And I I I I I oftentimes pray, Lord, give me that in my heart where I can actually truly understand and see The death of you. How much more we could do if we could actually see that? You know? This man before this had not act seen the Lord. The Lord told him to go wash, and he didn't know where he was when he received his sight. But now the Lord found him. Says that in verse 35, doesn't it? And Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and when he had found him, they said The Lord went and found him. Amen. He said, How's your eyes, buddy? He went and found him, and he said, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? And he answered , Lord, that I might believe on him. Who is he that I might believe on him? He said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and he is talking with you. He's talking to you right now, and you've seen him. You're looking at him. What a blessing that is. When he realized who the Lord was and who gave him that sight and that salvation. When he saw that, he fell down and worshipped him. That's what it says in verse 38. He said, Lord, I believe, and he worshiped him. Friend, that's all the Lord desires of us is our is to worship Him. That's what we're supposed to do. How are we doing on that? How's our witness? How's our testimony? How's our testimony? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you for this opportunity to speak your word here, Lord, is I'm unadequate to do so. But Lord, I thank you for this. Lord, I pray that you would just do what you see fit here in the invitation this pastor takes over. Thank you and we love you in Jesus' name. Amen.