Number 24 says, unto Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better things than that of Abel. The blood of Jesus Christ has something to say to those that will listen. I want you to take your Bibles, please, and turn to Matthew chapter number 27. Matthew chapter number 27. And when you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand, please, as we read a portion here beginning in verse number 29. Matthew twenty seven, starting in verse number twenty-nine. And when they had platted a crown of thorns They put it upon his head and a reed in his right hand. And they bowed the knee before him and mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews. And they spit upon him and took the reed and smote him on the head. And after that they had mocked him, they took the robe off from him. and put his own raiment on him, and they led him away to crucify him. As they came out they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name, him they compelled to bear his cross. And when they were come unto a place called Golgotha, that is to say, a place of a skull, they gave him vinegar to drink mingled with gall. And when he had tasted thereof, he would not drink. And they crucified him and parted his garments, casting lots. that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, they parted my garments among them, and upon my vesture did they cast lots. And sitting down they watched him there And set up over his head his accusation written, This is Jesus, the King of the Jews. Then were there two thieves crucified with him, one on the right hand, and another on the left. I'm interested in that statement found in verse number 36. And sitting down, they watched him there. Can you imagine that mob of people that gathered round to watch Jesus be crucified? I want to preach tonight on what they saw. As they sat around the cross. And may the Lord help us to see some things here this evening. Our Father, we bow now in Jesus' name and thank you for the privilege that we have to pray. We thank you, Lord, for the cross and all that was work, the work that was done there. We thank you for the Lord Jesus who hung on the cross. I'm grateful, Lord, this evening that as we bow our heads, we know, Lord, I'm glad you're not still on the cross, you're not in the grave, but you're alive and well. And I thank you, Lord, that we do serve a risen Savior. Please help us now as we remember what was done in obedience to the word. And Lord, for our own spiritual good, help us to grow in gratefulness for the mighty work of the cross Lord, we'll thank you for what you do in our hearts. We sure need you. Pray you'll undertake, and we give you glory for what you're going to do. Help us to lift up Jesus. For it's in his mighty name we pray. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. You know, nothing in the Bible is there accidentally. Everything recorded is recorded for our good and for God's glory. And our Bible tells us of something that you and I need to sometimes stop and think about what's happening here As this great multitude, this great group of people are gathered around there watching the Lord Jesus die on the cross. Now, in that crowd, there was probably many who were there out of mere entertainment Certainly it was uh a part of their life. Uh hundreds and maybe countless numbers of people had been crucified and would be crucified in this fashion. And oftentimes, for just mere sick amusement, there would be multitudes gather around to watch the suffering and the sorrow and the dying of the individuals who were nailed on the cross. And certainly in that crowd of people who had gathered, there were there those Just just merely there for the amusement of watching someone die. I believe in that crowd there were folks gathered out of animosity. There were people there who hated the Lord Jesus so terribly that they wanted to see him die. Not only did they want to see him die, but they wanted to see him suffer and die. The religious leaders of his day had such a hatred for him that when given the option to release a well-known criminal Or the Lord Jesus, they cried, give us Barabbas away with this man. Let's crucify him, crucify him, crucify him. And in that crowd was a mob of people who hated the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe in that group of people were a handful. We know at least John and Mary were there. A handful of devoted followers. And they were there not sitting and watching as just mere entertainment or not sitting and watching out of animosity But they were sitting there and they were watching and they were beholding a sight that they could not fully comprehend the depth of what was taking place. It was a moment in time that they would never forget. It was a moment that would mark uh make a difference for all of eternity. But they too were gathered in that group, and as the scripture just plainly says, sitting down, they watched him there. I'm not interested in glorifying the gore of the cross. I do believe that the cross was not a pretty place. These artists' renditions of Calvary are quite far from the actual reality. The cross was a very horrible place. It was a place of great suffering for those individuals who were hung on cross and killed. It was a place of suffering that was unseen by the eyes of men. You and I could not see the great transaction taking place. apart from the scriptures, but there on that cross he who knew no sin would be made sin, and all the powers of darkness would marshal against the power of heaven as the Son of God bowed his head and laid down his life and cried, It is finished, and gave up the ghost. There was much happening around this scene that is unseen and unknown without the word of God. But I'm interested in taking the eye of faith and looking on the pages of Scripture and sitting down for a few moments around this cross. And trying to see what we can see as Jesus hung there and died. What we see here, we're not going to see just by mere being present or looking. What we see here, we must see through the pages of truth. And I'm glad, I'm so grateful that God has given me a Bible to give explanation to what we see happening here in the Word of God. Yes, they crucified him. Yes, they took, as the Bible says, and made a crown of thorns and put a reed in his hand and mocked him as the king. They spit on him, they hit him on the head, they mocked him, they led him away to be crucified, they nailed him on an old rugged cross and hoisted him up into the air. And there he hung, and there he suffered, and there he bled, and there he died. It's such an important event that God has given an ordinance to the local church. An ordinance is orders from above that need to be carried out here below. An ordinance that has that has been given to us so that we can remember that we've been bought with a price. We're given in the scripture the commandment to come to this table, not for salvation, but because of salvation. We come to this table to remember his death. Of all the things that we could remember, we're commanded to remember his death. We're commanded to remember that Christ died, that he died, and we're also commanded to remember that he rose again on the third day. But tonight we're focusing on the reality that Christ died for our sins according to the scripture. If you'll take your Bible and for a few moments sit with me around the cross. What will we see? What is it that we see as we watch him being crucified there? If you're making notes, I want you to notice that we see the sacrifice for sin. We see the sacrifice for sin. John made the declaration some three and a half years earlier. John said in John 1. 29, the next day, John seeth Jesus coming unto him and saith , Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. John said, I want you to know that walking on the face of the earth right now is God's Lamb. The provision, the sacrifice, the one who would pay the price for your sin and mine. Do you realize that from the beginning of time till this present moment that we're speaking of Man had anticipated, man who believed God, had anticipated a coming Messiah, a lamb, if you will, a sacrifice. In fact, in the Garden of Eden, I believe that the blood that was shed there was the blood of the lamb. I believe that it would fit what the Bible teaches from that point forward that a lamb was taken. And by the way, God shed the first blood that was ever shed on this earth. God killed that animal and made a covering, a sacrifice. What does that tell me? That tells me that sin demands a sacrifice. Sin must there must be a sacrifice made. And God made that sacrifice for Adam and Eve. Oh, they tried to cover themselves, but to no avail. Nothing man could do could ever hide his sin from God. It took the work of God to do that, and so the lamb was slain, and the blood shed and the covering made But from that day forward, there was an anticipation of a coming sacrifice. We see that pictured in the tabernacle in the wilderness. when the lambs were slain. In fact, we see that prior to that in Exodus 12, when they were delivered out of Egypt and the lamb was provided on that great night of deliverance. That lamb's blood that was put on the doorpost, and that lamb's po that was blood that was put on the lentil, and that lamb that was taken and consumed by the people who were leaving out of Egypt. It was all a picture of the coming sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. Later in the temple, when the lambs were slain and the blood was shed, once again, the Bible's telling us. There's a lamb coming. There is a lamb who will come and take away the sin of the world. Abraham would make the statement to his son, not maybe not understanding fully all that he spoke, but saying it nonetheless. When young Isaac said, Well here's the wood, and here's the fire, here's foot, but where's the sacrifice? And Abraham would say, My son, God will provide himself a lamb. And God did provide Himself a lamb. John recognized it. Don't you love it whenever uh when the pieces of the puzzle all come together? When when you begin to connect all of the dots and realize that promised seed in Genesis 3. 15, that lamb that Abraham spoke of. That lamb that was sacrificed in Egypt, those lambs that were s that were sacrificed in the tabernacle and then later in the temple, all pointed to the day. The very day when Jesus, the Lamb of God, would be sacrificed for the sins of the whole world. Listen, when you sit round this cross and you look at the man hanging there, you are witnessing the sacrifice for sin. Here's what the Bible says. The Bible tells us later in Hebrews 9. 26 that now, once in the end of the world, hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. Let me say this the first blood that was ever shed for sin was shed by God in the garden. It was shed for the covering of Adam and Eve and for the forgiveness of their sin. The last blood that God required, the last blood that God required was shed by God on the cross of Calvary. It was shed there, and the Lord Jesus would be that sacrifice and pay your sin debt in full. That's why we can sit here tonight with such joy in our hearts, knowing that a payment, not just a payment, but paid in full, is written over the record of every one of us who are saved by the grace of God. That last blood, that's the only blood that'll ever be required. We believe our Lord's coming again, but listen, not to hang on a cross. He's coming again not to be crucified as a man. He's coming again not to pay for the sin of the whole world. He did that once. Once he paid the sin that Once he put our sin away. Once he made the sacrifice of himself, and it'll never need to be done again. That's why we believe in a full free salvation. Because we know when Jesus said it is finished, he meant it. It's finished. And all this religious crowd that's trying to help him out and boost him up and do everything they can to aid in their salvation needs to stop their vain work. needs to just stop their efforts and realize Jesus paid it all. Jesus paid it all. He's paid the debt in full. There's nothing you can add to it or take away from it. You just simply need to rest in the truth and reality That Christ died for your sin. What do we see hanging there? We see God's Lamb. We see God's Lamb. By the way, fast forward in heaven. Revelation chapter 5. Who stands up in heaven? That lamb as it was slain before the foundation of the world. That lamb. He's still God's lamb. And listen, when we get to glory one day, we're going to recognize the fact that there's the lamb. There's my lamb. There's the Lamb of God, which took away not just the sin of the world. I'm glad that's true, but he took my sin away. And we'll worship that lamb. They sung a song to that lamb, and they said, Worthy is this lamb who was slain, and they blessed and praised the Lord God. We'll recognize this throughout all of eternity that Jesus Christ is the Lamb of God. He's the sacrifice for sin. Let me say quickly, we're sitting here with our Bibles open. And we like this crowd have gathered round. Now some are sitting there for mere amusement. Some are sitting there out of animosity. Some are those that love him, though they don't fully understand. We're sitting here with an open Bible and a complete Bible, by the way. And it tells me not only do we see the sacrifice for sin, but we see the substitute for sinners. That's what we see. That man hanging there, that man suffering and dying and bleeding, we see the substitute for sinners. 1 Peter 3 and verse number 18 states, For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust. Second Corinthians chapter five, verse twenty-one says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Do you realize that as Jesus hung there, a guilty man went free? But Rabbas should have been hanging up there. He was the criminal. In fact, he was such a notorious criminal, they all knew him, knew what he did, and they they still said, We want him. We want him. You see, the Lord Jesus was a substitute in reality on that day. But in truth, he's a substitute for all mankind. He suffered the just for the unjust. You see, he took my penalty. Paid it in full. He took my punishment. Every last bit of it. He took the wrath of God. That's what our Bible teaches. He took the wrath of God, the very wrath of God for sin was poured out on the Lord Jesus. And because he died, I won't have to. Because he died in my place, I'll not have to suffer. Because he made the way, my friend. Listen, he became my substitute. The fire of God's wrath burned over him. So that you and I could find refuge from the flames of God's anger. I heard the story of a prairie fire and Man, I'm told that when a prairie fire begins and begins to gather steam, that it moves like a locomotive across the land. When a prairie fire, when that dry grass catches, man, it just burns everything and it burns with intensity and it burns rather quickly. When an old farmer was fleeing from his place and knowing that there would be great damage, he opened his barn doors and set his animals free, hoping that they would find a place to hide. He didn't have the time to save them save them himself. And after the flames passed over, he returned and he saw what looked to be the charred remains of a little mother hen. And with his boot, he sort of bumped the charred remains, and when it fell over, all of her little chicks just ran out alive and well. And that farmer said, you know, that's just what Jesus did for me. When the fire of God's wrath came burning my way, I took refuge. In the Lord Jesus Christ, and the fire burnt over him and spared me. He became my substitute. Church, I want to remind you as we sit and look at the cross of Calvary that we see hanging there, the substitute for your sin and mine. We see the one hanging there when we should have hung there and died. We see the penalty and the payment being made, something that we couldn't do, something that was not in our power to be able to do. Man can never atone for sin. But God could in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. He became my substitute. And I want you to notice why he did it. Peter said that he might bring us to God. That he might take a fallen man and a holy God and bring the two together. That somehow or another he had bridged the gap that seemed unbridgeable. That he would fill up the chasm that was uncrossable. That he would make a way where there was no way, and I'm glad Jesus announced it quite clearly. When he said, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Oh how what a happy day, happy day when Jesus Christ became the substitute for my sin. I say to you, sinner friend, you don't have to go to hell. My dear lost friend, you don't have to go to hell. Jesus has already paid the debt for you. He's become the substitute for you. Look to the Lamb of God. He's the hope and rescue of the sinner. Oftentimes we try the secondaries rather than the primary. We try the little things that are associated rather than the individual in whom we should trust. People get religious, turn over new leaves, try to do better. We say we're going to reform our habits, we're going to change our life, but I've got news for you. Only Jesus can save you. Only Jesus can save you. And He's the substitute. He became your substitute. Do you see Him now? Do you see the great substitute? It was a glad day. When I got saved and realized that Jesus took my place. When I realized that, look, I'm no longer under the wrath of God, Jesus took it all. That cup, I believe that cup he spoke of was the cup of God's wrath. And he drunk that cup right to the bitter end. He took all of it. The primitive quartets and dear men back home, they sing a song, The only fire I'll ever feel is burning in my heart. That's the only fire I'm ever going to feel. And I can't boast in my own and I can only say that because Jesus, the only fire I'll ever feel is what he lit in my soul when he saved me by his grace. Why? Because he's my substitute. We see Jesus, the substitute. You know what we see there? We're not seeing God's Lamb now. We're seeing God's love. We're seeing God's love. What would hang what would hang the Son of God on the cross What what would it be? It's more than sympathy, and empathy is far deeper than that. It's divine love. I know that because the Bible says, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him Should not perish but have everlasting life. He gave. Listen, his love gave, his love motivated that gift. It's his love that brought him down from heaven. I think one of the wonders of heaven. Will not be the streets of gold. I don't believe we'll we'll get over that eventually. I don't believe it will be the gates of pearl and all the splendor I don't believe it'll be the physical descriptions that we read about. I believe the wonder of heaven will be one we're there. We're there. We're there because He loved us. And it'll be a love we'll try to fathom throughout all of eternity, but not be able to. Who can plumb the depths of God's love? Who can figure out a love that's so divine? Listen, my friend, the the poet can ha his pen fails The songwriter, he can't put together enough melodies or tunes to describe the great love of God. The preacher i i i is is limited in trying to describe how much God loves us. One of the things that we'll sing about in eternity is the great, great love of God that brought Jesus down to this earth to die for our sin. We'll never get our heads around it, but we'll we'll sure enjoy the benefits of it forever and forever and forever. I'm glad he loves a sinner like me. We see not only God's Lamb, we see God's love. But then I want you to notice something else we see hanging there. We see the Savior of the soul. the Savior of the soul. In Matthew chapter 1, when Jesus was born, the announcement was this, and she shall bring forth a son. And thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Aren't you glad for that? He will save. He's a savior. In Acts chapter number four, we read about this. We read about the message that was declared so boldly. Peter was preaching and said, Be it known unto you all and to all the people of Israel, but but that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole. This is the stone which was set at naught of you builders, which has become the head of the corner Listen to this now. Neither is there salvation in any other. For there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. No other name. There's no other savior. Friend, if you believe there's more than one way to heaven, you believe the lie You believe the lie of the devil. There's no two ways to glory. There's no two ways to heaven. You say, well, that's your religious opinion. No, that's the reality of the truth of the Bible. The Bible does not tell us there's ten ways. It simply says Jesus is the way. The Bible tells us that Jesus is a door. And I want you to think about this. What do you do with a door? A door is no good unless it's hung on hinges. Well, you could take a door and prop it up And you can prop that door up in the corner, but it's not going to do you any good. That door doesn't do any good unless that door's hung on a hinge. And that hinge makes that door accessible and usable. And you know what the cross of Calvary is? The cross of Calvary was a hinge where they hung the door. It's where the door of heaven was hung, the Lord Jesus Christ. He was hung there, and on that cross hangs the door into heaven. There is salvation in no other When you sit and look at that mighty cross and look at the Lord Jesus, you're not looking at one of many. You're not looking at the the possibility of choices. You're looking at the one and only. You're looking at the one and only Savior of man's soul. You're looking at the one. He's the only one who can forgive sin He's the only one who can pardon iniquity. He's the only one who can move put sin away. He's the only one who can give you eternal life. He's the savior of the soul. Oh, do you see him as that? Wasn't it a glad day, you dear brothers and sisters? Wasn't it a glad day when you realize there's a savior for me? There's a savior for me. I believed there was a Savior for a long time, but I didn't really know that he was the Savior for me. But on that glad day when I trusted Christ and he did that work of grace in my heart, I realized there's a Savior for me That I can be saved. That I can be born again. That there's one who paid the price for me. And as I look at him hanging, I don't see just a Savior. I see the Savior. But better still, I see my Savior There hung my Savior. There's my Lord. There's the one who paid my sin debt. There's the one who pardoned me in my iniquity. Oh, thank God He's the Savior of the soul. No, He's not just God's lamb. And that cross not only demonstrates God's love. But it shows us how to get God's life in our soul. God's life. Isn't it a strange thing that life springs out of death? John said, except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. What was he talking about? He's talking about Jesus. He's talking about the Lord Jesus. And when the Lord Jesus died, my friend, he brought life to many. He brought life to all. His death was an opening of life for lost sinners. You know, I was reading this week about Elisha when they buried him. And it's told in the Kings that when Elisha was buried that some uh robbers came along and someone died and they threw his old body in the in the grave there where Elisha's bones were and they said when his when his body touched the bones he revived You know why God's power was still on that old prophet? His old carcass still had power resting on it. I can't explain all of that, but I believe it. You imagine the shock on them boys' faces when they threw their their criminal buddy in the grave and he hops out and beats them running down the road and said We better get out of here. I don't know what just happened, but I'm alive. Well, that was God's power. But there's one greater than Elisha That we're preaching about tonight. And the Lord Jesus give everywhere he goes, He gives life. Friend, He gives life. He gives life to the dead sinner. He gives life to the dead soul Don't talk to me about a dead salvation. There's no such animal. God gives living salvation, eternal life. And listen, you and I don't have to wait until we get to heaven to enjoy it. You can be alive right now. You can be alive in the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen, our outward man's perishing. Isn't it? Old preacher used to say, every ring you leave in the bathtub is a little bit of you. That's a little bit of you just wasting away. All of us, all of us here to some degree know that the outward man's perishing. She's on a downhill roll. And we know that we're not what we used to be. We know that our old life, our bodies are decaying. We know that there's a place out ahead where it seems like death will prevail. But I want to tell you something. That inward man's renewed day by day. I've got news for you, brother, sister. Inside of you is the life of God. If you're saved by the grace of God, you're alive. You're alive in Him. And when your old body stops in death, there's going to be life, swallow you up. And listen, you're going to be taken into the presence of the one who lives forever and ever. There's a life waiting you that you know nothing of, but hallelujah, you're going to soon taste. Life. Swallow. Thank God for God's life. God gives life. Everywhere the Lord Jesus went, he brought life. Did you notice that? He brought life to the graveyards. He brought life to the sick rooms. He brought life to the suffering peoples of the world. Listen, he brought life. And if what you've got didn't bring life, you better go back and get again what it is you really need. Not get again. Get it for the first time. Because Jesus brings life. Jesus brings life. You may not know all the terminology, but you know the reality. I was eight years old when God saved me, and I couldn't tell you the theological dissertation of what God had done in my heart, but I knew I was once dead, now I'm alive. I knew that I had passed from death into life. I knew inside of me was something I didn't have before. I understood that there was a principle alive, there was a person alive. There was something different inside of me. It wasn't given to me by the preacher. It wasn't given to me by the church. It was given to me by the Lord. And the Lord made me live. And when the Lord Jesus makes you live, friends, you're alive forevermore. When we lay these old bodies down in the grave. D. O. Moody said, You'll read one day that Lyman Moody died, don't believe a word of it. He said, I'll be more alive at that moment than I've ever been before. And that's the truth of everybody who's saved. That's the truth. Death is just a change of address, not an end of existence. You just move out of this old broke down house and go to be in a better place. You just leave a a world of sorrow and and woe and and go to live in a land of glory. That's the reality, friend. I'm not preaching pie in the sky. I'm preaching the truth of the Bible. And my friend, everybody who knows the Lord Jesus knows there's a principle of life inside of you. God put it there. You're alive in Jesus Christ. We live in him. This Bible reminds us every once in a while we get a tug from another world. We know that that that there's listen like the little boy out there flying his kite and he let it get so high he couldn't see it no more. Someone said, How do you know that kite's still up there? He said, I feel it tug every once in a while. And I'm glad, listen, there's a tug from another world in my soul. Sometimes I read my Bible and it comes surreal to me, and it it's not just a mere movement of the emotion, it's a working of the Spirit of God in my heart as that Bible comes alive. Isn't it good to know that the Lord Jesus has brought you life? The sinner has no hope apart from Jesus Christ. Dead in trespasses and sin, no life inside of them, no interest in the things of God. And I'm I'm going to tell you something, dear friend. If you're sitting here listening to this uh broadcast this evening And you're spiritually dead, dull towards God. You need to say, listen, you say, but I'm a church member. I prayed the prayer. I've done all of these things. Yes, but do you have life? If you don't have life, listen, here's what Jesus said. He that hath the Son hath life. And he that hath not the Son hath not life. There is life inside of every saved soul. There is a life that God Himself brings. And if you don't have that life, Jump that membership, jump that profession, jump that prayer, and run to Jesus Christ and say, Lord, make me live. And I'm glad He'll make you live. Everywhere He shows up, He brings that life I remember being told now if you get if you when you do a funeral, you study your Bible and see what Jesus did. Well that was bad advice, Andy. Because he never conducted a funeral. He caused the many a resurrection, but he never conducted a funeral. But the more I studied it, the more I realized, you know what, that's true. Because what Jesus did is he brought life in a place of death. And what more do we need in a time of sorrow than to know there's hope and to know there's life? And to realize that listen, though we be if a person's saved absent from the body, present with the Lord, and if they're not saved, the ones who are s who who are there that who need to be saved need to know that there's still life in the Lord Jesus Christ. It is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment. But oh thank God there's a sacrifice There's a Savior. There's a substitute for me. And I can leave this world knowing I'm headed to glory because of what Jesus did on the cross. And he'll bring life to me. He'll bring life to me. Now, what we'll do in a few moments is recognize death. The reality that Jesus Christ died. We do it out of obedience to this ordinance in the scriptures. But I believe we do it because God wants to remind us tangibly. We don't belong to ourselves. He died for us. And I don't know about you, but we can't come to this place and to these tokens. These little elements of memorial. We can't come without saying, Lord, thank you for doing that for me. Thank you for shedding your blood for me. Thank you for giving your body to be broken for me. By the way, it was all for you. It was for me Christ died. Friend, when you sit around this cross and gather with this multitude who the Bible says, as they sat there, They watched him. What do you see? Do you see a religious story has no meaning to you? Dear friend, you must be born again Do you see something that's almost fanciful? Oh, you need to see its reality. It's the hope of every sinner. It's it's it's why we're here. It's why we're here. Christ died for our sins We see him as that great lamb, God's lamb. God provided that final lamb. Oh Blood was shed and sacrifices were made, and somewhere around the world today, people still think that they need to do something or make a sacrifice. And yet it's not recognized in heaven. When Jesus died, God said, That's my Lamb. That's my Lamb. Oh, God's love is put on display. When you take that bread and you take the cup, remember He loved you and gave Himself for you. And then God's life is there. Oh, not in these tokens. These are just tangible reminders. There's no salvation in the bread and the juice will serve. There's no supernatural spiritual change that takes place between the hand of the deacon who serves it and the person who places it in their body. There's none of that. Isn't mystical? Or superstitious. This is just a tangible reminder of the broken body and shed blood. But in Jesus Christ, the living Savior, there's life. I'm reminded that as I consume him by faith, as I put my eyes on the Lord Jesus, as I feed on his excellence, as I look to him for his glory, there's life in my soul. I get life in the Lord Jesus Christ. And I'm reminded that that life came the moment I trusted him. The moment by simple faith I received what the Lord Jesus has done. I received him. The Bible says, as many as received him, to them gave you power to become the sons of God. Even to them that believe on his name. He gives that life to us. Do we not owe him everything? Because he gave himself for us? Oh, may the Lord help us tonight. Friend, let me just simply say, as we come to the communion table, This table is for those who are saved. It's a remembrance. It's a remembrance by those who have been born again by the grace of God. If you're not saved, this is not something you participate in. But can I give you good news? You can be saved tonight. You can be saved in this moment. You can be saved on the spot. If you'll just simply receive what the Lord Jesus did and who he is and trust him and call upon him, friend, he'll save you by his grace. And, dear believer, let me remind you that there is such a thing as taking the body and the blood of the Lord Jesus unworthily. Our Bible tells us to let a man examine himself. And I trust we've done that, and I pray you'll continue to do that as we get ready to come around the communion table, because it's important that we be right with God and right with each other. Paul rebuked the Corinthian believers for coming to the communion table divided, at odds. And he told them very clearly that the physical suffering that they were encountering was because of spiritual misjudgment on their part. They were drinking and eating this this body and blood unworthily. They were not right with God, and they were not right with each other. And he said, fix that, tarry and fix that, and then come to the communion table This is not a mere ritual that the church observes. You say, Pastor, we haven't observed this for some time, and I'm going to tell you why. I fear sometimes we write it in our calendar and we check it off the box and we say, well, we've done that this quarter. It's far more serious than that. It's far more serious. The early believers, I believe, more than likely, what we can gather would have remembered the broken body and shed blood on a weekly basis. But our Bible tells us as oft as you do that, giving us the liberty. And I say that only to say this, folks, it's a it's a serious thing to come to a communion table and remember what Christ did on our behalf. And as a church, may we ever elevate that ordinance to a place of specialness And recognizing that it's a tremendous responsibility on our shoulders to rightly show the Lord's death till he comes. One day we'll sit down at another table, but it won't be the Lord's table. One of these days we're going to gather around not a communion table, but we'll gather at the marriage supper of the Lamb. And at that table there'll be no remembering death because the Prince of Life is going to be present. And we're going to worship him who lives forever and ever and ever We're going to sing his praises and give him the glory. But until he comes, we must show his death. Because it was his death that brings us life. Father, help us tonight, please.