Pray with me for just a moment here. I've been meditating on a verse. This is not what I'm going to preach on this morning. But in first Peter five seven, the Bible says, Casting all your care upon him. For he careth for you. Now I don't know what care you brought into this building, but here's what I do know about care. Most of the time, you can't do nothing about it. You can't change it. You can't fix it, you can't solve it. And if you've got a personality like me, that drives you up the wall. I remember having to learn having a daughter that sometimes they talk to you not so you'll fix something, so you'll just hear. I had a problem with that. If I hear a problem, I want to fix it And I'm probably aged beyond my years for that reason. Because I've heard a lot of problems and I've wanted to fix a lot of them. But I've never been able to do the things that only God can do. And here's what he said, casting all your care. That means take it off you and put it on him. Casting all your care upon him. Why? For he careth for you. He really does care. That old beautiful hymn says, Does Jesus care? He does care. That cross two thousand years ago declares eternally he cares. And he cares. He cares for you, friend. And so may the Lord help us today to take all our cares and cast them on the Lord. Knowing He cares for you. You know what you're doing? You're taking them out of the hands that are limited. And you're putting them in the hands of omnipotence, who knows no limit, who can do all things. So would you pray with me, please? Our Father, we come in Jesus' name and thank you for the opportunity that we have to come into your good presence. Qui as reminded us already come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And then, Lord, these dear ladies reminded us, Lord, we can bring all of our anxieties and all of our fears and all the cares and we can place them at your feet. Father, I'm so grateful today as I stand here, and Lord, as these sit here, as the people who know much about care, that there's something we can do with them. Lord, I'm grateful that you have taught us in your word that we can do nothing about them. There's something we can do with them, and we can cast them upon you. So we come in simple obedience, laying at your holy feet those things, Lord, that we just want to call cares. Lord, I'm grateful that you're able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. And we trust you now and praise you, O Lord. That no longer do they have to weigh our spirit down. But dear Lord, there's great liberty. And letting you carry the load. So I bring my cares, Lord, and I pray each of these dear precious people bring their cares, and we lay them at your feet. Thy will be done. Lord, would you help us now from the Word? I pray the Spirit of God would just undertake and meet the great need of every heart in this place. And we'll be very careful to give you all the glory and the honor. We're an awful needy people here this morning. But we're glad we serve such a great and mighty God. Lord, we love you. Help us to love you more. And we ask it in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Romans chapter number five? Romans chapter number five. And I want to read two verses in your hearing, and when you find Romans chapter 5, I'll invite you to stand with me as we honor God's precious word. Romans chapter five and verse one says, Therefore And I don't know if your Bible does this, but when my Bible starts a new chapter and a new verse, that first words in all capital letters. Your Bible do that? Therefore, that's there for a reason, by the way, therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. By whom also we have access by faith into this grace, wherein we stand and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Do you notice two times he says in two verses, we have? We have. Now that's a qualified we. That's we who are saved. The word used here is justified. All the saved are justified, and all the justified are saved. Father, speak to us, please. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You can be seated. We have. I want you to think about what we have. What we have. I've been emphasizing the gospel as of late, that's been in my heart to do, and you say, Preacher, why? That little word there reminded me of why we're emphasizing the gospel out of the book of Romans, and the first reason is Romans 1 16 says, the gospel is the power of God and to salvation to everyone that believeth. That's the reason we're emphasizing the gospel. Why? Because there's power in the gospel to save sinners. It is, the Bible says, the power of God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. The gospel, my friend, is life eternal. Jesus said this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God. And the Lord Jesus Christ, whom He sent. The reality is that salvation is in the person of Christ, and we emphasize the gospel this morning because of its mighty power to save. Let me say number two, we emphasize the gospel simply because all men are sinners. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. All of us. There's nobody here any better than anybody else. We're all in the same boat and like the old sailor preacher used to say, she's sinking fast. And the reality is the only remedy for any one of us here today and all of us is the Lord Jesus Christ and what he did on the mighty cross. We emphasize the gospel because it's the power of God as a salvation, and because all men have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Now, Romans chapter 5 begins like this, therefore being justified by faith. We are in a courtroom. I want to remind you that. The whole book of Romans really is a courtroom setting. And in this courtroom we stand condemned because of our sin. We're on the stand. Is that the right word? We're on the stand. We're in the box. Eyes are on us. We're the accused. We're the guilty. And the law has come marching by, and the word has come marching by, and the truth has come marching by, and it's all said guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, The Bible makes it quite clear that we all have sinned. I mean, I don't have to belabor the point here this morning. We've all sinned. Every honest soul would say, I'm a sinner. I'm a sinner by nature, I'm a sinner by birth, I'm a sinner by choice. I sin not because necessarily I want to, I sin because it's in my nature to do it. Charles Wesley wrote in that hymn, and of course it's a different understanding than what we believe, but he said, Take away my bent for sinning. Well, would to God. And and by the way, one day he will. When I get re uh glorified and get my new body, gone will be my old nature. Hallelujah. But may I remind you this morning that there is in all of us that seed of sin, the fallen we're all sons and daughters of Adam's fallen race. We all partake in that one thing. Wherefore By one man sin entered in, and death by sin, and death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned And yet God has given us, as we study here in Romans and come to chapter number five, there's a whole change of tone. There's a whole change of atmosphere, if you will. No longer is the accusations being leveled and the condemnation being settled. Now he says, justified. Justified. Not guilty, not condemned, you're justified. Therefore, being justified by faith. Can I say this? If you're saved today, you're justified. Say, preacher, I don't understand it. Well, praise God anyhow, you're justified. You're justified. It's a legal declaration of perfect righteousness in the eyes of God. And you say, hold on a minute. That's too good and that's not me. If you're saved in the eyes of God, that's true. You're justified. Therefore, being justified by faith, in the eyes of God you have perfect righteousness. That record has been obliterated. The handwriting of ordinances, if you will, the docket of accusations Has been nailed to the cross of Jesus Christ. All that you were, and all that you are, and all that you will be has been remedied by the sacrifice of Jesus Christ on the cross? Well preacher, that's that's impossible. Well it may be for us, but it's not for the Lord. Therefore, being, by the way, it's a state of being. It's the state you're in right now. If you're saved, you're as much saved as you ever gonna be. People say, I know I'll be I I know I'm saved when I see the lights of home. I don't have to wait to see the lights of home to know I'm saved. I know I'm saved on the authority of what God has said. And the truth of the Scripture declares me justified. Therefore, being justified how? By faith. Can I remind you back up just a little bit in chapter 4? The Bible tells us in chapter number 4 here that we've been justified, or rather excuse me, chapter number 3, back up a whole lot. Verse 24 says, being justified freely. That's a big word, freely. That means it's of no cost to you. Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past Through the forbearance of God to declare, I say at this time, his righteousness, that he might be just and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. I'm not justified today because I preach the gospel. You're not justified today because you're sitting in a church. You're not justified because your name's on the roll or because you've been member of the church for a long period of time. None of those things justify man before God. You're not justified because you're a good person. You're not justified by your morals. You're not justified by your uprightness. You're not justified by your deeds of kindness or your goodness. You're not justified by your identification with any religious body. You are justified freely by the grace of God in the person of Jesus Christ. When you put your faith in him, God declared for all of heaven to hear, justified. Just like the word went out guilty, and we're all stamped with that guilt of sin, we're all labeled as sinners, we all carry that mark, if you will. When God forgives his children, when God saves a soul, he marks them just as plainly justified. Just as clearly he is, just as clearly righteous, just as just as plain as you can see, he says, now that one who was guilty is now justified, and now justified by faith. I want to say to you, if you're trying to get to heaven, stop. Stop in your tracks. Preacher, I'm trying to be a Christian. My mother used to say, I I thought my name was Quit It for a long time. I wasn't sure I even had a proper name. It was always Jamie Quit It She got real mad and real anxious, it was no longer Jamie, it was just quit it. If you're trying to be a Christian, quit. Stop. This thing isn't about you trying. It's not about you struggling. It's not about you holding on. It's not about you uh making some effort on your own, you say, oh, but preacher, I've got to help, I've got to do something. Oh, here's what you must do. Rest in the Lord Jesus Christ. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. Trust him and only him, for only he can save you. Being justified by faith. By the way, that's not a process. That's something that happens immediately. The moment you got saved Heaven heard the words declared over you. Justified. Justified. Brother Andy, do you remember the year? I know I'm putting you on the spot, but the year you got converted. Nineteen sixty-eight. That was before I discovered America. Nineteen hundred and sixty-eight, not saying anything about you, brother, but nineteen sixty-eight. Brother Andy Bishop put his faith in Jesus Christ. Up until nineteen sixty eight, what would you be in uh can I ask when you were born? Fifty four. Fifty four. Nineteen fifty four. So from nineteen fifty four to nineteen sixty eight Brother Andy Bishop was guilty before God. A condemned sinner. Not condemned because he had already come to the bar of judgment, but simply because he that hath not the Son hath not life. And he's condemned already. So he's standing in a place of condemnation. He's standing in a place of judgment. He he he is lost and And and before him is the charges, and they're mounting by the day that he lives. Until 1968. And in 1968, when he put his faith in Jesus Christ, here's what God did. God said, no longer is this man guilty, this man is justified. The righteousness that God Himself has and was demonstrated in the person of Jesus Christ was placed on him. Now, when God looks at him, he doesn't see him as guilty, he doesn't see him as condemned, he doesn't see him as lost, he doesn't see him as dead. in his trespasses and sin, he sees him justified in his own son. In fact, when he looks at him, he does not see him as the sinner, but he sees him as in the Savior. He sees Jesus Christ in him. By the way, the only good thing in any of us is Jesus. Before you get that little banny rooster attitude and start saying, look at me and what I am Remember this: the only good thing in any of us is Jesus. The only good thing in any of us is Jesus. He justified us. Justified. Now, from that moment to this. Brother, upon the profession of your faith, you're as good for heaven as if you're already there. You're no more saved all these years later than you were then. Justified. At that moment that you were justified, now let me ask you something this morning. Have you been justified? Are you saved? Have you put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ? You say, Well, preacher, was that a dramatic thing? Was that was what did did did Andy hear that the angel say, justified? I'm going to venture something here. I doubt he even knew what the word meant when he put his faith in Jesus Christ. Here's likely about all he knew, and I'm not insulting any any of his knowledge, but I'm saying here's likely all that he knew. I'm a sinner, and Jesus is a savior. And he placed his faith in what Christ did on his behalf. You don't have to know the whole Bible to be born again. Isn't that a mercy? God has made salvation so simple that a child can believe and be saved. Now, some of you may not agree with that, and that's okay. But I believe that God has saved children. God has saved children. You know why? Because I was a child when God saved me. And if you had asked me what justified meant as an eight-year-old boy, I would have had to look it up in the Webster's dictionary. And I don't think at that time I even owned the Webster's Dictionary. But I'm going to tell you something, I was just as justified whether I knew it or not, because of what Jesus Christ did on my behalf. And my brother and sister know this this morning. Whether you understand or know all of the things that God has done for you, the reality is he's done them anyhow. Justified. Then he goes on to say, we have. From that moment on, notice not we're going to get, not that we're going to somewhere down the road You know, this is going to be our possession, but we have it right this moment. What do we have? Three things. Number one, we have peace with God. You see it? Verse 1 Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. I hope this is news to you, but do you realize that an unsaved person is at an enemy of God? They're at war. Your heart rises up in rebellion. It says, This man will not rule over us. That's the lost. That's what an unstayed person's spirit says. They're sinners. The word is in the New Testament enmity. They're at odds. They're adversarial. Sort of like the proverbial Tom and Jerry. Them two couldn't be friends if I mean they sat down at a at a uh peace treaty table and signed, you know, Tom would flick him off the table and try to eat him. He was just they just could not get along. Why? Because they're two opposite natures. And beloved, listen, a sinner cannot be at peace with God until God does something about his nature. We're adversarial by nature. We're born in rebellion. We're born in sin. Don't let anybody tell you this morning that, well, there's a little spark of good, it just needs to be fanned into a flame. That flame that gets fanned is often set on fire with hell itself And I need something more than a flame flickering in my heart. I need a new nature put on the inside of me. I need a miracle called the new birth. But at that moment of the new birth I now have peace with God. Ephesians chapter number two says this. It says that at that time you were without Christ. Notice what we were, aliens from the commonwealth of Israel. Strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. Imagine being in any worse predicament Having no hope and without God. That's where they are. That's where they live. They had no hope. They're without God. They just as a saved person is as good as heaven if they were already there. A lost person is as good for hell as if they were already there, because they're dead in their trespasses in sin. Oh, may God help us to see it this morning. Man's problem is not his morals. Man's problem is not the fact that he's poor, has uh wrong upbringing. His his problem is he's a sinner and sinners have only one solution and that's to meet a savior. The remedy is in Jesus Christ, beloved. And we see man's problem, he's without God. But verse 13, I love the change of this, but now in Christ Jesus. Ye who sometimes were far off or made nigh by the blood of Christ. For he is our peace, who hath made both one, and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us. having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances, for to make in himself of twain one new man, so making peace And that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby. I want you to see something. The cross became a focal point where the wrath of God and the rebellion of man met on the person of Jesus Christ. And it was there the peace, the peace, the peace of God was made, peace with God was made on the cross. Now think about that for a minute. You know people say things like this, well, I made my peace with the Creator. Well, what does that mean? Does that mean you struck my dear wife, had an uncle, and I tried to witness to him again and again, and he said, Me and the Creator have a deal, he said. And I said very respectfully, I said, sir, if that deal does not evolve or revolve around the person of Jesus Christ, then there's no deal. The only dealings of God is through his son. God saves men through his son. Why? Because it was on his in his son, and on his son That sin was leveled and judgment was poured, and God's wrath was met, and my sin was answered for in him. And so now it's as if God takes the cross and he takes these two warring parties and with one holy arm he reaches up to heaven and takes hold of a holy God And with another holy arm he reaches down and takes hold of fallen man and he brings the two together at the mighty cross of Calvary, making peace with God. God doesn't make peace on your terms. Preacher, I think God will forgive me if I just do more good than bad. Please hear me, friend. I say this as kindly as I know how. You're thinking wrong. Because the Bible says there is none good. No, not one. All the good that you think you can muster, don't cut the muster. All that good you think you can come up listen, it just don't do it. If all if every good thing you could do could be accumulated, let's do it this way. If all the good that could be done in this room were put in one pile, it would still be far insignificant so far as the righteousness of God. It would fail. God would say that's filthy. Let me explain it this way. Sometimes you and I think we've cleaned something up. You ever done that? If my wife were were to go away, maybe go up and see Sarah's baby, and uh before she comes back, all you men know what you're gonna be doing. It's marathon cleaning day. Right? You're washing dishes, you're doing something with clothes, you're vacuuming the floor. I you know, I'm thankful that my wife has an eye for that. I I I'm I'm very fearful if I was left to leave by mys live by myself, it'd be a mess. I I I was pretty content when we lived on the farm when I lived on the farm by myself. I mean my coveralls hanging right by the kitchen table where I ate dinner. My work coveralls didn't really bother me that bad. And my chainsaw stuck under the table so I could get it out work on it when I wanted to. Didn't really bother me that bad. But now when I got married, it bothered her real bad. It bothered her so bad I had changed my clothes on the back porch. I did not come in with those clothes, you know. They had a smell. I couldn't smell it, but she said they had a smell that offended her and didn't want in that house. And so you begin to clean. Every man sitting here, if you've ever been through this, you know what I'm telling you. You've cleaned and cleaned and cleaned and cleaned, and your wife comes home, and I guarantee you she'll find something that ain't clean. Or it's not clean to the standard. You know, I can use and I have, when she's gone, I have used one cup, one plate, one fork the whole week long And I can take a napkin and wipe that thing out, and it's clean enough for me. You know I didn't die. I might have a good constitution now, but it it didn't kill me. You say what are you trying to say? I'm saying there's a level of cleanness that only God can achieve. There's a level of righteousness that only God can achieve. Brother, sister, when God pronounces us justified, that's a cleanness this world knows nothing of. And know this this morning that all of our goodness could never achieve what God did on the cross. Notice it is back in our text quickly. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God. Watch this. Through our Lord Jesus Christ. If you don't hear nothing, hear this. Peace is not a feeling. Did you hear that? Peace is not a feeling. Peace is a person. How do we have peace? Through our Lord Jesus Christ. It's through him we have peace. If you're troubled this morning over sin and perhaps troubled about sin, and sometimes saved people get bothered over past sin. In fact, I think a lot of people who have been forgiven somehow or another forget they've been forgiven, or the old devil gets them thinking about of all the things that they have done and all of that And really troubles our hearts and minds. But can I remind you of something? That when God forgives you and cleanses you and puts it away, it's not your remembrance of the sin that's the problem. So far as God is concerned, your sins and iniquities He remembers no more. He doesn't remember it. He has put it behind his back in the sea of forgetfulness, and he says to you, There's peace. You know where that peace is? It's in the person of Jesus Christ. I would say to you today, If you're saved and maybe a bit troubled in your heart, turn your eyes on the Lord Jesus. Look to what he did on the cross of Calvary for you. Remember, it was his great sacrifice that saved you. It's not how you feel about it, it's what God did about it that matters. Peace is a person. Quickly, let me point out a couple of more. Notice the position we have in grace. By whom also we have access, we have access by faith into this grace Notice the emphasis here again is on him by whom. My position in grace is complete because I'm in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me explain it like this. There's no half-saved people here. You're either saved or lost. Okay? You're not almost in, almost out. You 're his or not his. You have the son, you don't have the son. You have a position in grace, or you still are in your sin. And I want you to notice what it says over in Ephesians chapter 1: Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings and heavenly places in Christ. According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. Having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ Himself according to the good pleasure of His will. Can I remind you this morning that in you you have nothing, but in Christ you have everything? In yourself you have nothing. We're beggars. That's all we are. We're beggars, we're destitute, we're we're we're helpless and hopeless. And dear friend, but in the Lord Jesus we have all blessings and those spiritual blessings and heavenly places in Christ. But I also want you to notice wherein we stand. Where do I stand this morning? See, your standing is quite important. Do you know there are people who have good standing in church, but they have no standing in Christ? Oh, they're members, they're respected members. They might have some sort of air of reverence about them, though that should be reserved for God alone. But they're still that standing, you know. Upstanding you might call them. They have that standing, they have that name, they have all of those things. But can I say to you, beloved, this morning, that that standing down here does not work up there. Our standing is either in grace or in sin And can I remind you that according to the scripture, that we we have this standing here according to Ephesians chapter one, by the work and mercy of God. Here's another way the Bible puts it. He's translated us out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of his dear son. That means he dug you up out of the filth and pit of sin and he took you over here and put you in his precious family. That's a work of grace. Dear brother, sister, we need to get back to a God-centered gospel where men are called to repent and turn to the God of heaven who alone can save. It's not your tears, it's not your prayers, it's not your weeping, it's not your efforts, it's salvations of the Lord. And accept God come and save you. Now, label me what you want to label me. I'm just trying to be faithful to the text. We got people praying prayers and sitting on pews, and they'll die and go to hell. Because they've never been born again. Never been changed. Maybe sitting in this church, maybe sitting on these pews, maybe sitting here this morning, listening to this preacher. And your faith is in something other than Jesus Christ. And you don't have a leg to stand on if that's the case. Our faith must be in Him and what He did and in Him alone. And oh what good ground it is. What does the scripture say, on Christ a solid rock I stand? I've told you this, I'll tell you again, for years I struggled with that. I I couldn't remember what I prayed and I wasn't sure if I was sorry enough and I couldn't think about all the things that I learnt as I grew. And and and I'm trying to figure it out and and and finally one day I realized it's not me, it's not what I've done, it's the work of God. He came and translated me. He came and saved me. Put me out of that sin and put me in himself. I've got a standing this morning. And by the way, I can't brag about anything but him. I can't boast in anyone but him. Why? Because he's the one that came and found me. What's that standing? It's the standing of a son. It's sonship. I'm in the family. I'm in the family. Imperfect as I may be, I'm in the family. As much unlike Christ as I currently am, God help me, I'm in the family. The Bible says He's given the Spirit Not of fear, uh, but he's given us the spirit of adoption. Romans chapter 8, we'll get to it, whereby we cry and the Father. And because we cry to him as our Father, because we have that Holy Spirit living inside of us, there's a recognition of sonship. There's that family connection. I'm his, he's mine. If we could just see that. By the way, it'd help us if we could see that in one another. You know what we often do? We look at the imperfect picture and forget the perfect work. Andy, you're looking at a very imperfect man. I don't have to announce that, but it's true. But I'm in the family. In your family. We're brothers through Christ. Because of our elder brother, the Lord Jesus. Sonship. That's my standing. Preacher, you might be sitting here feeling like the sorriest Christian in the building. Well, you're going to have to be sorry Christian number two, because I'm sorry Christian number one. But I'm still in the family. Do you understand what I'm trying to say? We have a standing. We have a standing. And he says where by where we have access, again, over here in our text In Romans chapter 5, by whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand. And if I understand that word appropriately, that word means where I'm situated securely, never to be removed from. I'm never gonna get kicked out of the family. Let me just be plain here this morning. I oughta be. And you too. But I'm not. Jesus said it like this, I give unto them eternal life and they shall never perish. That's what he did. And so I have a standing this morning in grace. That's what I have. He don't look at me in all of my failings and all my imperfections. He sees me in his son. That one's in grace. When death came through Egypt, all he was looking for was the blood on the doorpost. And when he saw that blood, he passed on. That old house could have been as rickety as a shack on the side of the road. Or it could be as ritzy as the Pharaoh's palace itself. But if it had the blood, they were still safe. You can be as weak a Christian as you can imagine, or be as strong as you can think of, and yet still what matters is the blood of Jesus Christ justified in his eyes. Oh hallelujah. For such a good salvation in God. Folks, that's our position in grace. Let me close with this, our praise. Here's what else we have. We had praise to God only. Look what it says. And rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. We have praise. We're rejoicing in hope. What does that mean? That means that we're rejoicing in unseen realities. We're praising God for things we've never put our eyes on. We sing about heaven like people who've been there, but yet not a one of us has darkened the door. We rejoice in a forgiveness and salvation and in the eternal work of God, and yet we've never seen it with these eyes, but we know it to be true because of the word of God. We're rejoicing in hope and the glory of God. By the way, we're not only praising for these unseen realities, but we're praising God. Do you see that? We're praising God. Philippians 3:3 says that we are the circumcision Who rejoice in Christ Jesus and worship God in spirit and have no confidence in the flesh. What are we rejoicing in? Listen, what you praise this morning tells a lot about what you're trusting. What you praise. You hear people talking about their church, praising their church? That scares me. Because that tells me they might be trusting their church more than they're trusting Christ. Let me pause here and say, you ought not to run down your church. You ought not to run down your church. But we don't praise the church. We don't praise the denomination. You hear people talking about, I'm a Baptist, you know this, but I sort of get tired of these fellas because all they do is praise the Baptist Or they praise the Methodists, or they praise the Catholic, or they praise whatever. The reality is that none of those things save us. It's Jesus. What we praise talks about what we trust. It tells on us. Listen to what the psalmist said. He said, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. He brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goins, and he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. I'm worried about you if you just don't have no praise for God. This crowd that's saved and are sorry about it, I just wonder. That 's between you and the Lord, but I it just makes me wonder. You know, I'm saved. I'm frowning by the way if you can't see this far. Aren't you glad to be saved? And we ought to praise the Lord we are. Because He's the only reason we're saved. We're not saved by the work of man. We're saved by the Lord. And he said, We're praising. Here's what we're doing. We're rejoicing in hope of the glory of God. God has put praise in our heart, and it's praise that tells of what Christ has done. Now I'm through. But I want to say this, if you're saved, what you have is greater than what you don't have. Preacher, if I just had, and it may not be a possession, it may be something else. I mean, I'll tell you, if I just had recognition, if I just had respect, if I just had you got the Lord. What you've got's bigger, greater, better, eternal. We have peace with God. We have a position in grace And we have praise in our hearts that God Himself put there because He saved us. Instead of living in this old world, saying, well, I'm just a Christian. I don't have much. Well, if you've got the Lord, you got all you need. Both to live and most importantly to die. Because it's appointed unto men once to die. And after this the judgment. And when you get there, or when we all get there , The reality is what we have in our hands is going to be just what we came here with. Nothing. Not a thing. But if you have Christ, you've got everything. What do you have, friend? Do you have the Lord? Do you have him this morning? Be be honest and serious about this question. And dear friend, if you have him, oh how our praises ought to just flow. Lord, I want to thank you. Sometimes we get ungrateful for what the Lord's done. Because he's not doing what we think he should do. And forget, if he doesn't do another thing. He's done everything I He's done more than I deserve. Huh? I'm saved. Go on to heaven. On God's good grace. All this down here ain't even gonna be a memory. Up there. Do you have him? He that hath the son hath life. He that hath not the Son hath not life. But I've got good news for you today. If you don't have him, the Bible says you can receive him. God dealing with your heart? Are you understanding your need for Christ? It may be you've hung to the church or you've hung to your prayers or you've clung to something else. And you realize I need Christ. I need him. You know what? He's just a prayer away. He is a prayer away. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And he'll save you here, he'll save you in this altar, he'll save you in that pew. If you're listening to this broadcast, he'll save you in your living room, won't he? He'll save you wherever you'll call on him. Will you call on him if you don't have him? And my brother, sister Let's not depreciate what the Lord's done. Don't let the old devil blind your eyes. Get in your Bible and let the Holy Ghost say, This is yours, and this is yours. And this is yours, and it's all because of him. So that you'll love and worship him for who he is. I don't know the need of your heart this morning, but I pray you'll let God meet it. Because he'll meet you right at the point of your need if you'll come to him. We're going to stand our heads or bowed or