Of a great truth that God is still on the throne. I want you to take your Bibles, please, and go with me to 1 John chapter 4. 1 John chapter 4. And I'm going to invite you to stand when you find that passage, and we're going to begin reading, starting in verse 7. Down to our text in verse number 19. First John chapter number four And let's begin reading in verse number seven. Notice what the Bible says, beloved, let us love one another. For love is of God. And every one that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. Herein is love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Hereby know we that we dwell in him and he in us, because he hath given us of his spirit And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God. And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God is love. And he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment. Because as he is, so are we in this world. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love Now we're at verse 19, which is our text. I would ask you to read that with me, please. We love him because he first loved us. Father, we bow our heads now and would ask once more for your help. I pray, Lord, that you'll use your word to work in your hearts, and you'll be glorified in this gathering. Lord, we look to you for what we need, for we know it must come from heaven. In these few moments, Lord, hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up Jesus. Spirit of God, please speak to us that we'd understand the great love that you have for us. That it might ignite a greater love in us for thee. And Lord, we pray you'll accomplish all you desire, and pray there be no hindrance to the Spirit of God. Pray you'll bind a strong man and spoil his goods. And do a work for your great glory. We love you, Father, and we thank you for your love for us, and thank you for the scriptures that teach us about this love. Father, we again we just pray that you'll have your will and help us in Jesus' mighty name. And God's people said , Amen. You can be seated. I want to read again verse 19 because I pray that the Lord will take these eight words and burn them deep in our hearts. He says, We love him because he first loved us. This is the conclusion of the previous twelve verses. All the verses about love All of the manifestation of love, all the teaching and doctrine about love. Here's the conclusion of the whole matter. And I love how the Bible can take a whole lot of truth and compact it in a little bitty package God often says the most when he says the least. And he doesn't say much in this one verse, but he does say a lot. He says, We love him. We love him. Because he first loved us. Christianity is more than a doctrinal persuasion You think about all of the religions of the world, and all of the religions of the world have a doctrine They have something they believe. They have some framework or some sort of system that they adhere to. And all of the religions of the world have their doctrine. But Christianity is more than a doctrinal persuasion. It is a devotion in our heart to a person. Christianity is more than just simply a framework of beliefs or a religious structure that we fit into. It's more than just saying, well, you know, I'm a Christian as opposed to being a Muslim, or I'm a Christian as opposed to being a Buddhist. It's more than a religious framework. In fact, it is a relationship with a living person. And that person is the Lord Jesus Christ. I say again, we love him. Because he first loved us. We love him because he first loved us. I want you to notice as we take this text apart four things. Number one, I want you to notice the people that are identified. There's a people that are identified here. And then I want you to notice a priority that is magnified. There's a priority that is magnified, something that's more important than anything else. And then I want you to notice the person that is emphasized. There is a person in the text that is emphasized, and by the way, not to give you the answer ahead of time, but I hope you already know. The person who's always emphasized is Jesus Christ. He's that person from Genesis to Revelation. He is the person who's emphasized. And then I want you to notice the passion that is recognized. There's a passion here that is recognized in the latter part of this verse. So look with me, if you will, first at the people who are identified. Here's what he says: We, we , we love him because he first loved us. Now, this really got a hold of me as I started studying. Do you know how many times John talks about the we? Ten other times in these verses I just read, he identifies the we 's. He says this. Go back with me here quickly. In verse number nine, in this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world, that what's the word? We might live through him. That's the we. You say, who's the we? Who's the we who love him because he first loved us? It's we who live through him. That's the we. The we are the people who've been made alive in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ A people who live through him. You say, what does that mean? That means that you have accepted him to be your Savior, and you in your sinfulness have come to God for His righteousness. And he's given you life that you did not previously possess until you trusted Jesus Christ. That's a we. That's a we who's been made alive through him. Now there's a we, uh and and mercy, there's there's ten of them. Ten more, ten more. I'm not going to preach all ten of them, but look at them. Verse ten. Herein is love. Not that, what's the word? We loved God. Now wait a minute. The Bible says we love him because he first loved us. But now it says we didn't love God. And the truth of the matter is, if you love God, it's because you understand God first loved you. You didn't love God in your lost state It's impossible to love God apart from being saved by the grace of God. Oh, I know there's people who love the concept of God, or they love their religion. Or they love their tradition, or they love whatever it is that they have deemed to be God in their life. But to truly love the God of heaven who sent his son to this earth to die for sin takes a supernatural work of grace in a man's heart that makes him not only not no longer an enemy, but a friend of God. Takes him from being lost and makes him saved. Takes him out of the kingdom of darkness and puts him into the kingdom of light. Now that's a that's a supernatural thing. That is a supernatural thing And I don't know who built this button on this shirt, but I can't get this thing unloose. Pardon me if I take my pocket knife to it here in a minute. It's choking me. Yeah, this is this one's knife or scissor material. There. Pardon me. But we're talking about a we. We the Bible says we did not love God We did not. Dr. Hitchin said in Sunday school this morning, we weren't pursuing God. When you got saved, you weren't looking for God. When you got saved by the grace of God, God was looking for you. And any work that was going on in your heart was not generated by your will, it was generated by a work of the Holy Ghost of God. God's spirit was looking. God's spirit was convicting. And although you might have looked at that time as being a very difficult time and and perhaps a sad time. I'm thinking of a fellow who's in heaven now, and he said it took the Lord taking his wife for him to get saved. And she was a believer and she preached Christ to him. and told him that he needed to be saved. And as a young man with just a wee little girl, little baby, uh God saw fit in his mercy to take his wife on to heaven and he said, Now what am I going to do? I'm left all alone and all he could hear was she saying Don, you must be born again. Don, you must be born again. Don, you must be born again. And he said the pastor said, If you ever want to see her again, you must be born again. And although that was a very difficult time for him, he would say later, God, use that time to bring me to Jesus Christ. See, we do not love God. You say, but preacher, I've loved God my whole life. Well, you better back up a minute and read your Bible and find out where you really are. You may have loved your religion all your life. You may have loved your thinking about God all of your life. But no man's loved God all of his life Listen, when you understand that your sin has made you an enemy, it's made you at enmity, the scripture says against God. And so there must be a reconciling. There must be a place where that sin is laid down and where something is taken up, which is salvation. And Jesus Christ is trusted. You'll see this. We love him because he first loved us, but we, that we, didn't always love God. Notice another we, another we, quickly down in verse 16. And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. We have known and believed. That's the we. Who are the we 's? The we 's are the people who know that Christ loved us and gave himself for us. The wees are the people who know that that that Christ gave himself, that he made a sacrifice that he was the offering, the payment, the propitiation for our sin. We know that. You see, you can't be saved apart from that knowledge. Salvation is not some uh, you know, sort of superstitious thing It's not like, you know, people talk about, I don't know where this happens, but they rub the Buddha's belly You know, and I guess they kiss Peter's toe over in Rome, the statute, and somehow or another they some kind of good fortune comes their way. And there's all sorts of silly, fanciful things of that nature that men put stock in. But listen, you cannot be saved without a knowledge of what Christ has done. Salvation is not some mystical goo that you step in and get on you. Salvation is an understanding that Christ died for my sin according to the Scriptures. And that he was buried and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. It is that understanding that the Bible teaches me something. That's why the Lord told us in the Great Commission not only to go into all the world and preach the gospel, but we're to go into all the world teaching them. What are we teaching? We're teaching what the Bible teaches. And the Bible makes a very clear message, very plain to us, that Christ died for our sin. Now we've got to know that. But not only do we have to know that, but we know and we believe the love That God has for us. There must be a knowing of His love. I know that He loves me. How do I know that He loves me? I've only got to go back to Calvary. Preacher, but you d he he can't love me. My my life's a mess. He can't love me because you you wouldn't believe all the things that have happened to me in my time. Well, preacher, if he loved me, then why? And I'll be honest with you, I don't have an answer for that. I don't have an answer for all the whys. I don't have all the answers for the whys in my life I don't have the answer to all of the whys, but here's what I do know. When I look back 2,000 years ago and I see Jesus hanging on a cross, for sin he didn't commit, dying for sinners that he loved because nothing else could hold him there, and him paying the sin debt in full for the sins of the whole world, I have to confess that is love. Do you know he loves us? The Bible says that God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. That's love. You can't linger around Calvary and say that he doesn't love me. In fact, our Lord wrote a love letter. Do you remember writing those? I guess I'd have to say a love text now. But do you remember writing love letters? Do you know? Come on, shake the cobwebs off a little bit. Dust that part of the memory. Remember those love letters? And you wrote them out of a heart that was just gushing with feeling and affection. And and I mean, listen, and when you got one of those, you didn't just throw it on the counter somewhere and say, I'll get to that eventually. Oh man, you wanted to read it. I mean you looked at it just to see how it was was folded, you know. See, back in the day when we didn't have text, you had to slip letters in the hall as you walked by, you know And you had to fold them so that you had to fold them so, you know, they'd move quickly from one person to the other. Because you get in trouble for passing notes like that, you know And uh listen, those things were those things were valuable. They were valuable. I remember sitting in class and someone had gotten one such letter, and we had one of those mean teachers that Uh he said, uh if I catch you reading a letter, you're gonna have to read it to the class. Oh, it was one of them you didn't want to read to the class. But he called him and had to read it. But it was an expression of affection. I'm telling you something. Calvary is an expression of God's affection for you and me. And it's written not in just simple ink on paper, but it's written, my friend, in the pages of history. It's written in the pages of Scripture. But it's burned for time and forever, my friend, because Christ would write his love not with just simple ink, but he would write it with the blood that he shed for you and me to save us from our sin. We love him because he first loved us. And we have known, we've got to know that. We ha we we must understand that. We must comprehend that. And I truly believe the law has a purpose. Dr. Hitchens talked about having the Ten Commandments as a boy. And all the Ten Commandments could ever do is promote or produce terror in the heart. Because I can't keep them. I can't live up to that. It's utterly impossible. Despair. That's what throwing that way was. That was despair. He despaired in his heart. There's no hope in that, and there's not. There's no hope in that But I'll tell you where there is hope. There's hope for a Savior who would die for the sins of the world. John said it here in verse 14, the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. He's saying, I want you to know something. I've demonstrated it. I've shown my love. I want you to know it, and I want you to believe it. Now here's the key. You've got to believe it. Does no good to know it. Listen, there's hosts of people, multitudes of individuals. They know this. They know the gospel. They know Christ died for their sin. They know about the love of Calvary. They have it all packed neatly and compactly up here. They know it, but they've never believed it. They never believed it to the point of committing their soul to him. They'd never believed it to the point of trusting. They've never believed it to the point of resting. There, Paul wrote to the Hebrews, he said, there remaineth a rest to the people. There's a rest. There's a place to pillow your head. There's a place to stop your works. There's a place to lay down your sin. There's a place for your soul to repose. It is in the person and work of Jesus Christ. There's a rest How many dear people this morning are laboring and burdened, and they're like that person Jesus invited. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. They're laboring under the great bondage of religion. They're laboring under the great load of works. They're just trying to get by. They're just trying to get in. They're just trying to get along. They're Just trying to do the best they can But yet, there is a God in heaven who saves sinners that are weary and burdened, and at the very end of all their efforts find a place where they can rest in the Lord. We have known and we believed. We know, we hear the message. We respond in faith. We know that it was for our sin. It is not until you say, He's my Savior. It's not until you lay hold by faith that salvation becomes yours. You must believe that what Christ did was up for you. It's one thing to say, oh, I believe, it's another thing to commit. I know I've told the story, but many years ago in the 1800s there was an Italian tightrope walker that crossed the Niagara Falls on a tightrope. 1890 something, I believe. And uh he he was one of the first men, I think he was the very first to ever do that. And he not only did it once, but he did it several times. I think fourteen times. I'll tell you what, I don't know how much sense that man had. If I'd done it once and survived, I'd say, point proven, I'm moving on. But he he crossed. He he pushed a wheelbarrow across on one occasion. He took a stool and a camp stove and cooked an egg. Out over the falls. I could find a better place to see than the egg, wouldn't you? He he did all sorts many times and and in one of his episodes of going across, he was going to push somebody in the wheelbarrow blindfolded to the other side. And he had made, I think at this point he had made nine Nine or ten crossings. And so it was almost like you know he can do it And they were really hyping the crowd. How many of you believe the great and they called his name? How many of you believe he can do it? And the people that cheered, roared, they I mean, they'd watched him. They knew he could do this. And then they said, who volunteers to ride in a wheelbarrow? Silence. Oh, we believe. We don't believe. We don't believe enough to risk our lives by getting in the wheelbarrow. I'm going to tell you something, there's a lot of people sit in church. They sing Amazing Grace, How Sweet the Sound. They sing Victory in Jesus. They open their Bibles and they read the text. They bow their heads and pray along with everybody else. They go through all of the motions they believe, but they don't believe in the saving of their soul. They don't believe to the point of committing themselves to Christ. They do not believe to the point of pillowing the head of faith on the promises of God and in the person of Jesus Christ. so that they can be born again. We have known and believed the love that God has to us. You know what captured your heart, dear believer? The love of God. The terror of the law condemned it. The love of Christ captured it. You mean he loved me? He loved me like that? He loves me like that? I mean, I'm a sinner, yes, but that's who he loves. But I I failed. I failed miserably. And by the way, after you get saved, you continue to fail betimes. And yet he loves you, knowing you. We have known and believed the love that got it through us. We've laid hold of that. We recognize it. And I really believe they're dear saved people that really don't enter into the joy of knowing they are loved by the Lord. Well, if I get out of line, I'm gonna tell you something. He loves you when you get out of line. Because if he didn't, you'd be in a whole lot of trouble. Well, I I I I know he loves me when I'm doing good, but what about when I fail? I've got news for you, he loves you when you fail. The love of God's unconditional. No strings attached. He doesn't put hoop now listen, we live in a world full of hoops. Huh? Now if you'll jump through this, you'll get my favor. It'll please me, you know. And our world's full of that. Church is full of that. Christianity's full of that. Jesus isn't. He loves you. You get a hold of that, it'll change your life. Or rather, it gets a hold of you. That we have known and believed. We believe this. We don't just give mental acknowledgement. We believe it in the depths of our being that I am loved with an everlasting love. So let me ask you something. If you think you've got to do something to make God love you, tell me what that is. Because the Bible says he commended his love towards you, towards us, while we were yet sinners. He loved you in your sin. He didn't love your sin, but he loved you in your sin. He loves you and your lost estate. He loves you this morning. You may be backslid, cold, indifferent, careless. You may be lost and undone and on your way to hell. You may be saved and on your way to heaven. And I can say with great confidence, because the Bible teaches us this, that He loves you no matter the state of your person. You may be sitting here mad at God. Now you wouldn't dare say that But you're mad. You say, preacher, I'm mad. If I could be honest, my heart be open, you'd say, but I I'm just mad. There's things I I don't agree with that God's allowed. Now you've got enough sense to know that God is God and He's in charge. I commend you for that. I commend you that you realize that nothing in life is by accident. I don't believe in such a foolish thing as luck. There's nobody lucky. There's God who rules. He rules in the affairs of men. If that word's in your vocabulary, ask the Lord to help you to get it out. Because it don't represent the scriptures, nor does it represent the Lord. But God's in charge. You say, I know He's in charge, preacher, but but this happened and I don't like it. And so I'm going to be mad about it. My dad used to tell me you can get glad in the same breeches you got mad in. Did you ever get told that? I didn't tell him much, but every once in a while something made me mad. I said, Dad, I'm mad about that. He said, Well, you'll just have to get glad in the same breeches you got mad in. That meant get over it. I'm not being harsh or cruel or hard. I've had things just as you that have come and I've said, Lord, I don't understand that. And Lord, I really don't like that. It it really hurts me and it bothers me and I can't understand it. God, I can't I know what the Bible says, I know all things work together for good. But I I I just can't comprehend how how you're gonna do all of that. But listen, that's his job, not mine. He's God and I'm not. But you say, Preacher, I'm mad. What look can I can I just help you with something? He loves you still. He loves you still. He loves you no matter how upset you are, how aggravated, how bitter. You may have gotten to the point you're not just mad, you're bitter about it. You're bitter in your spirit against God. You're bitter to the point that there is just a corruption that's eating you up on the inside. But he loves you. He loves you. Now can I say as human beings, we don't really know much about that kind of love. I I I don't know that we know it on a human level. Because on a human level everybody's got a limit. You know? We may know it on a pet level. You know, they claim an old dog will love you no matter what. I heard something funny the other day, fellas said Uh he said, put your wife and your dog in the trunk and he said when you open it He said, I guarantee you the dog would be happier than your wife. I said, Well yeah. He'll be glad to see you. Don't do that, by the way. I don't think we have anybody that slow, but please don't do that. To either. But but it's you know, it it is it is strange. My uh Sarah had an old cat, Jasper. That thing lived eleven years. No, actually lived longer than that because he outlived. Our neighbor kept him up in Canada and he he just he called us not long ago and said, hey, just want you to know Jasper went to heaven I said I'd I told my wife, I said, I'd know where Jasper went and it weren't heaven That cat knew I didn't like him. We had a mutual agreement. You stay there, I'll stay here. Josiah was born and grew up. Jasper was there the whole time and and you know he's just a rough and tumble boy. I had to holler at him one day, he's out on the porch, he's got Jasper in the headlock, and he's giving him a sunburn on top of his head. And he set the cat down, and Jasper came back and just rubbed around his leg, and I thought, cat, you aren't smart. If you're wise, you'd stay away from him. If you're smart, you'll stay away from me. We'll just go our ways. But I mean I could go out and here he cut. He just loved everybody. He thought everybody loved him He got coyotes got uh grabbed him. I guess he's trying to buddy up to a coyote and he got his ear ripped off The raccoons. I mean he just loved everything and everybody. Never seen anything quite like him. The people we got him from was mean to him. That's why we got him. I felt sorry for him I mean, they'd take him and throw him off the porch by the tail. And he'd come right back on the porch. He just he just had that nature. Now I'm sure he had a limit. I'm sure. Joe found his limit one day. He had a limit And everything we know has a limit, but can I say to you, our God has no limit to his love? Friend, he loves you. Bitter, angry, wicked, vile, unclean. Hating God, hating men matters not. He loves you with an everlasting love. And he proved that when he died on the cross for you. I want you to see this people, this we, this we are those who have known and believed, we've known and we believed. We know the love of God. We believe the love of God. We know the reality of what that love can do. In fact, this statement, we love him because he first loved us, is the practical outcome of God's powerful love. I love him this morning. Not like I want to, not like I ought to, but I love him because he loved me first. His love has conquered the citadel of my soul. His love won. His love came out on top. His love conquered my will. His love caused me to cry out, be merciful unto me, a sinner. It was love that won the day. You'll never legalize anybody into a Christianity. You'll never lull them to Christ. Never. You can't do it. The law strips you and lays you bare and says, Oh God, I'm a sinner, a hopeless, helpless sinner. Damned and doomed and destroyed, soon to be destroyed. That's all the law can do. But the love of God walks by and sees you in the blood, sees you in your suffering, sees you in that state of death, and says, Live. Come follow me. You must be born again. And that heart lives. God described it in Israel. Really as an abandoned baby at birth there in its blood. And he said he walked by and he said to that that death, that picture of death, lith. Ezekiel, is it thirty-seven, the valley of bones. Here's a valley, and it's full of bones. That's all's there. Bones, bones, bleached bones. Bones that represent death, a valley full of death. That's all it is, death. Everywhere you look, death, death, death, death. And by the way, Doc was talking about being under conviction. You remember when you were under conviction, that's all you could see until you saw Christ Death, death, death, death, death. That conviction's very real, folks. I was just eight years old. I was sitting about where Richard is. in in a side pew in the church and I thought really before I got from there to here to Neil that I'd fall into hell. That's how I felt I thought, you know, I'd heard the story about uh, you know, the man in the Old Testament that God swallowed him up and his family. And I really thought, I I trembled in my heart, I thought I I hope God doesn't swallow me and take me to hell before I get there to get on my knees. Now, I didn't know enough to know that I could have got saved before I ever got there. That I could have gotten saved there in my seat. I didn't have to go to that place of an altar, because it wasn't the altar that saved me. It was the person of Jesus. But yet that conviction was so stifling and so real and so powerful that in my heart I was convinced that there was a hell and I was but a step from it. Now that's a death, that's death, that's what you see, that's the work of Spirit as He's do it doing a work in your heart. But oh what a glad thing it was when I got on my knees and that old preacher started whispering in my ear and said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. No longer could I see death, now I could see life. I realized that there's hope. I realize I could be born again. I could go to heaven. I could be saved. There's hope for me. I thought there was no hope for me I thought I was gonna die and spend forever in hell, but Jesus made a way. And loved one. Listen, it takes love, the love of God, to bring a soul to Jesus Christ. His love was demonstrated on Calvary's Dark Hill. We see the people identified, the we, the we. Let me ask you, are you a we? Have you known and believed? Have you known and believed? Are you one of them? You know, the Bible says there's only two kinds of folk in the world. There's only two categories. Oh, you say what kind of religion? No, we're not just throw all that junk away. We're not talking about Baptist and Methodist or Baptist and Presbyterian. We're not talking about Catholic and and and and Christian or Protestant. We're not talking about that. We're talking about lost or saved. Those that love God and those that don't love God. You say, but preacher, I've loved God my whole life, not according to the Bible. You fall in that category. If you haven't been saved, you do not love God. Now you might love the thought of God. You might love the God you made up up here in your head. You may love the God that that you've created or your denomination or religion has. ha has collaborated and put together. But the true God of the Bible is not loved by lost men. You either love God and are saved, or you do not love God and you're not saved. Are you a we Are you one of this crowd? Have you known? I hope this morning there's not a person who can leave this building and say, I didn't know he loved me. My wife sat in church 18 years, never heard why Jesus died. She knew he died, heard all the stories, learned all the Bible lessons, didn't know why. Didn't know why. The why wasn't there. The why was not put in the story. The account was told without the why. Why? Because it bothers men to think I'm a sinner that needs a savior. And so rather than bother men, we don't tell them the truth. I'd rather be bothered and be warned and be saved than to not be bothered and die and go to hell. And you need to be bothered if you're not saved. I used to go on visitations with a man, he'd knock on the door and he'd say, May I bother you for a moment? Well, I guess. And some people said, No, I don't have time. Maybe you're sitting here, and can I can I bother you for just a moment? It is the desire in my heart to do that. If you're not saved, you need to understand that Christ died for you. He loves you. You say, but you don't know how bad I am, or you don't know what I've done, or you don't know who I am, or where. I don't have to know all of that. Here's what I know: Christ died for sinners. He loves those that are lost. He loves you, friend. There is a love that I can't put my vocabulary is limited and this drives me up the wall. I wished I had a greater vocabulary, and I wished I had a greater passion to tell you how much he loves you. But let me tell you this, he loves you with love you've never been loved with before. Your mother may love you, your father may love you, your wife or husband may love you, your children may love you, your grandchildren may love you, but there is nobody who loves you like Jesus loves you. There is a love that brought him from from heaven above and made him be born in an old manger at there in Bethlehem, and then he lived on this earth for thirty years. and then went into a ministry of three and a half years where he was ridiculed and mocked and accused and spit on and rejected. And then they took him and nailed him on a cross, and there he would die, not for anything he did wrong. He knew no sin. He had no sin. He was never a sinner. He never committed one sin. But he died there for your sin He became sin who knew no sin. He took your sin, every vile and dirty and wicked and filthy thought and deed that man has ever done. was put on him to the point he became sin and God poured out his wrath on his own son in your place so that when you come to Jesus You can be forgiven, you can be pardoned, and the wrath that burnt over him will pass over you because the blood of Jesus has made you clean. Now that's love. That's love. That's love. You say, well I didn't ask him to do it. Isn't that even better? That's love. That's a greater love. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. Jesus laid down his life. Jesus gave himself because he loved you. You know that I pray. You're hearing that I pray. He loves you. He loves you, sinner friend. He loves you in your lost estate. He loves you no matter who you are or what you've done. Listen, you say, but but preacher, I I may be you may be sitting here guilty of murder. I took somebody's life. He loves you I'm glad I don't have to start categorizing sin and saying he loves this one, he don't love that one. He loves this one, he don't love that one. I'm here to tell you, no matter your sin, he loves you. In fact, the greater part of our New Testament is written by a murderer, a man with blood on his hands. And he he 's given us the New Testament. Why? Because on the road to Damascus, he met the Lord. And he found out somebody does love me. In my religious prejudice, in my hatred and zeal for that thing that threatened my religion, he said, there's somebody who loves me. And he bowed the knee and said, Lord, who art thou? And what wilt thou have me to do? He loves you. Have you bowed to that love? Now, friendless, you can sit here and stiffen your heart. And say I I I don't I'm not gonna accept that. And very sadly You'll spend eternity without God in a place called hell because you have known, but you have not believed The love that God hath to us. And the tragedy of tragedies is for the fact that so many will spend eternity in hell having been loved by Him. He loves you Are you one of these that have known and believed? Maybe. Maybe you're one of those that have known. You've known your whole life. You know the gospel backwards, forwards, every way. But that's all it is. It's a registry of information stored somewhere up here in your brain. It's never made the transition to where it got down to the heart, and you rested in faith that He died for me. He said, I know Christ is the Savior. I knew that as an eight-year-old, I knew he was the Savior. I got up out of that altar saying he's my savior. He's mine. And I'm his. I think the saddest place to go to hell from is a church pew. Where the truth is priest, but so many will. So many will. They've known, they've not believed. We Boy, that's a special group of people. Not because they're special, but because the one who loves them is special. We love him. Because he first loved us. Do you love him? If you're not saved today, can I urge you, let God have his way with you. Let the Lord do something for you. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Can I use this analogy? Get in the wheelbarrow. You know, nobody volunteered, so the manager that hyped this thing up Had to get in the wheelbarrow. Went across. That turkey turned around. Come back. He made it. That man had some serious skill. But I'm not telling you to trust a man I'm not telling you trust me. I'm not telling you trust Marinatha. I'm telling you trust the Bible. I'm telling you to trust the Lord Jesus, who's the s the the theme of this whole book. I'm telling you to trust him who loved you and gave himself for you My friend, put your faith and trust in him. Rest your soul in his good hand. He don't need your help. He don't need you to assist him. He alone can save. Believe on him. We love him because he first loved us. And I'll tell you what, the more I think about his love for me, I want to love him more. I say to my cold heart, Oh, rise up and love him. He loves you. Oh, he loves you amid all of your faults and failings. He loves you amid all your fickleness and foolishness. He loves you. Love him. Love him in return. We cannot repay that love, but I want to reciprocate it. May the Lord help us to love him. We love him because he first loved us. Will you stand with me, please? Are you saved this morning?