Four little words I want to quickly call to your attention. Four little words. They're found in First Corinthians chapter one and verse number twenty-three. First Corinthians chapter one, verse number twenty three Paul is explaining some things here to the Corinthian church and to the believers. Reminding them of those things that are most important. He makes this statement. I'm going to break it off with just these four words in verse 23. But we Preach Christ. But we preached Christ. What Paul was saying here is that in contrast to everything else that's being declared. In contrast to philosophy, in contrast to human wisdom, in contrast to Judaism And all of the other isms that you might want to put in there, he said, we preach Christ. Have you ever asked yourself the question, why do we preach Christ? Why did the Apostle Paul say here, but we preach Christ? In a world that was full of Greek wisdom and Jewish religion, what was the significance of the Lord Jesus Christ What is it that caused Paul to leave Judaism and become a follower of Jesus Christ? What was it that made this man, who more than likely was one of the great intellects of his day, to reject the wisdom of man for the wisdom of God What is it that so captured his heart and his attention that he would he would make this statement and say very boldly And without without any reservation or hesitation, but we preach Christ. Well, it's not very hard to understand. When you take your Bible and read about Paul's conversion. You go back to the book of Acts and you read about Paul on the road to Damascus, and there he met someone who did for him what human philosophy What man's wisdom, what Judaism could not accomplish. He met someone who changed his life radically from the inside out. He met a man named Jesus Christ. You say, but preacher, as far as history is concerned, Jesus was crucified, and he was buried But don't forget, he rose again. And it was a living Savior that made himself known to this man, Paul. And from that moment forward, the Apostle Paul he ditched all of his his learning, if you will, as far as Judaism is concerned. He he put all of those things aside and he had one burning passion. He had one goal in his life. He had one desire in his heart, and that was to preach Jesus Christ. He said, when it as far as Rome was concerned, he said, I'm ready to preach the gospel there also He had found that there is something in the person of the Lord Jesus that he could not find anywhere else. And by the way, I stand before you tonight, and I say to you that there is something in the Lord Jesus you'll find nowhere else. There is something in Christ that you cannot find anywhere else. I mean you can you can be religious and y you know, you can be a part of every uh religious ism that you want to be a part of. And you can go through all the motions and all the fashions and forms of every religion imaginable, and yet you will not find what you find in the Lord Jesus. The song of Solomon, I believe, looking prophetically down the road said, he's altogether lovely There's no marks or flaws in him. There's nothing that makes you curl back or or or recoil backwards and say that's repulsive. Everything about the Lord Jesus is beautiful and attractive in the most wholesome of ways because he's the Lord of glory. He's the blessed Lord Jesus. There's much about religion that makes you just almost tremble in horror. There are things about religion that make you think, how could man do that under the name of God? There are things about religion that that could, I mean, even just make you sick, literally sick, but the reality is none of that reflects him. Sadly, much of religion reflects the human followers of that professed religion, whatever it is. Someone said uh to me a couple of weeks ago, I hate religion. They knew I was a pastor of this church. And uh I don't know if they knew this church or anything about it, but they said, you know, I hate religion. And I said, you know, I do too. And they looked at me like, Man, you're some weirdo. And you're their pastor? I said, Yeah, they're worse than me. You oughta meet 'em But you know what? We're not religious. And I'm not espousing a religion. I'm not saying tonight that that you need to be a follower of my brand of religion. Oh, friend, there's only one thing that matters. Where do you stand with Jesus? The Lord Jesus Christ. Listen, friend, he's the determining factor for all of eternity. You can be out of sorts with man's ways, but my friend, if you're not right with God through his beloved son, there's no hope for you in eternity. And so Paul said, We preach Christ. But we preach Christ. Let men preach their goodness, but we will preach Christ. Because we've discovered that in in our flesh there dwells no good thing. No good thing. Many many of you have been saved. I I started to ask all these men, but I didn't want them. Emphasize their antiquity. I started to ask how long they've been saved collectively, these three men. I'm going to venture it's going to be over a hundred years between the three of them. But my friend, what I'm trying to say tonight is this as we preach the Lord Jesus Christ, here's what we realize. The longer we're saved, the more we recognize that our flesh is fallen. There's nothing good in me. There's nothing good in me. There's nothing good about me. In fact, the only thing that I can say is by the grace of God I'm saved. And the good that I can tell you of is the work of the presence of the lovely Lord Jesus who saved me from my sin and is saving me from myself. And one of these glad days, He's going to deliver me forever from this body of death that I'm trapped in. And my friend, I'm going to get a new body likened unto His glorious body. And what a day that's going to be. No more battle with sin. No more battle with ourselves or Satan. Oh, what a day that's going to be when we're truly, truly set free. Let men preach their goodness. We've discovered there is no goodness in man. Let men preach their religion, their religiosity. Oh, if you'll but do this and you fill in the blank. There's a whole lot of this to fill in the blanks with. But all of this falls miserably short. I read the story of a man's conversion who was caught up in a very painful type of idolatry. And he would mark and scar his body and pierce himself with uh pieces of bone and then crawl for miles. Thinking that the intensity of pain his body felt would compensate for the wickedness of his life. And he would take these journeys, and he would prepare his body and put it in every joint he had some bone or some sh some shard of pottery or something that would inflict pain and then he would begin. And on his hands and knees he would crawl. And he he talked about how, or wrote about how, that he would leave literally marks of his own blood. And he said, somehow, this must answer for my sin. But he said, you know, I discovered that that it just never gave me peace. That I felt as condemned when the journey was complete as I did before I started. And you know, my friend, you can do all the things that religion requires, and some of it is insane. And you can jump through all the hoops that you've been told you need to jump through, and yet there's going to be one missing thing, and that's peace with God. This man was reached with the gospel. And he said, When I was first told, when I was first told of the work of Christ on the cross, Where he shed his blood, where he lay down his life, where he gave himself up freely for me and paid my sin debt in full. He said, Could this be true? Could it be true that that Christ would die for a sinner like me? Could it be true that he would save me for just by merely the asking? Could salvation so wonderful and so full and so rich and so planned by God Be given to a lowly one such as I? And he said, Oh, thank God I discovered it could be. I called upon the Lord Jesus and he saved me from my sin and he said, Gone was the load I carried. Gone was the burden of sin. He said it had all been removed, and then someone showed him the Bible where it said, There is therefore now no condemnation. No condemnation. Aren't you glad that God is greater than your heart? Your heart may condemn you, but Christ doesn't if you're his. Listen, my friend, there is therefore now no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. What a glad day it is, and what a glad day it was for you if you've trusted the Lord Jesus. And what a glad day it was for him. No more pilgrimages. You know, he asked a very logical question. He said Why did it take so long for me to hear this? Why did it take so long for that message to reach me? I don't know the answer to that, but I do know this, just as Martin Luther discovered as he made that that perilous journey up and down those stairs and Trying to fit through the crevice of the religion that he followed, he discovered that the just shall live by faith. And that it is by faith we are saved, by grace you are saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. It's not of works, lest any man should boast. You know what's true about us tonight? If you're saved, you have nothing to boast about except for Jesus. That's all. We can't stand around here and say, Well, bless God. I've been saved because I'm a member of Marinatha Baptist Church. Throw that stuff away, people. You can be a member of Marinath the Baptist Church and die and spend forever in hell. Because Marinath the Baptist Church never saved a soul, but dear Jesus has precious Jesus will. My friend, he'll save you out of the muck and mire. I started to preach tonight out of Psalm 40 Where the Bible says he has put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. He's lifted me up out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay. What did he do? He went and found me, dug me up, cleaned me off. Put a new song in my mouth, even praise our God. We don't walk around here singing the praises of Marinath Baptist Church. We need to walk around here singing the praises of the Lord Jesus. Who went down into the pit to save us from our sin. But we preach Christ. Let men preach their religion. Let men preach their goodness. Let men preach their reasonings, their human reasonings. And my, those are many. Those mental gymnastics that come around this thing of eternal life. Those things that are are perhaps uh weird and and strange and even sometimes almost wonderful sounding philosophies. As men think, well, uh, you know, I uh I'm um when I die I'm I'm dead. Used to have a neighbor who used to tell me, he said, I'll I'll be as as dead as the animals that fall in the field. And I said, Well, sir, there's one thing for sure: your body will be as dead as those animals that fall in the field. Your body will lie still and motionless and without life. But God did something when he made you that he didn't do for those animals. He breathed into your body the breath of life, and man became a living soul. And because man's a living soul made in the image of God, he lives forever. We may move out of this house, but we will live forever and ever and ever. He gave me all this, he said to me, he said, young man, he landed on um he landed on the beach there. He was in the in the Canadian military and uh he he landed on in uh Normandy He talked about what he went through. He was shot and he was left on the beach for dead. I think he said he laid there some six or seven days. And when someone saw him move, they realized, hey, this man's alive, and they they took him and carried him off, got him fixed up. He and I were talking one day about hell. I'll never forget that the look on that dear man's face. God showed him mercy. That man lived, I guess Mr. Embry lived to be 115 , 116. And he said, son, the the I I've been to hell. So they told me, he said, I've been to hell. He said, nothing can get worse than that. Man, that hurt that broke my heart. Because I believe this. And I'm not saying that arrogantly. I'm just saying that honestly. I believe that Jesus talked about a place that's far worse than that beach ever would have been. And I listen, I said, sir, I shook his hand, I said, thank you for for being willing to lay your life down. I appreciate what you did, and I honor that, and I'm thankful that that God spared your life But I said that that don't even begin to describe eternity without God. That that that's not even close to what it's going to be like when you hear depart from me. I never knew you. The reality is human philosophy can try to erase the existence of hell. And we can try to remove the reality of sin. And we can say, well, you know , We all have a spark of goodness. I don't know about you, but the only sparks I got in me are not good. Huh? It's sort of like that stove I tried to light one time and I I had a bright idea that I'd put this this furnace oil on my uh wood to get it my fire burning. It was about minus forty degrees and outside and and uh I wanted a quick fire. I didn't want to stand around do a Boy Scout thing I wanted a good quick hot fire because the house is coal. And so I took that that furnace oil and I poured it over to the wood and I didn't know we had coals buried deep in them ashes. And I heard that sound that I can almost hear sometimes in nightmares. And I thought, oh no. And just as I reached to close that door, that thing lit. And when it did, it blew the door off the furnace. It blew me out the furnace room door and took that door off the wall, off its hinges, and I guarantee you it woke everybody else in the house up as they come downstairs to see what in the world just happened. And I still remember s being asked, hey, what what was that? I think it was Elizabeth that come looking first. I said, Well, house is gonna be warm real quick. Here in just a minute, as soon as I figure out how to get this door back on I said that to say this. I've got in me, and you've got in you, a seething cauldron of iniquity. Right. My friend, that thing's just hissing and you put the right fuel to it and she'll go quicker than that furnace. Because the Bible says we're shaping in iniquity. We're born in sin. Our old nature is bent in that direction. And there's only one remedy for it. It's not finding a spark of good. It's getting to know the Son of God And when you come to the Lord Jesus Christ, my friend, there's a new nature put inside of you that makes you what you can't be apart from Him. That's why we preach Christ. We preach Christ because He's God's remedy for man's sin. We preach Christ because He's He's the only way to heaven. He's the door, the Bible says. He's the way, and he's the truth, and he's the life. We preach Christ because there's no other name given among men whereby we must be saved. We preach Christ because Christ is our only hope. Man sinking deep in sin far from the peaceful shore. Listen, we're buried deep Listen, there's an old sin nature that's deeply stained us and marred us, but I'm grateful there's one named Jesus who will lift us. And like Peter of old, when he was sailing those those seas and challenged by the Lord, he stepped out of the boat and started walking his direction, and he began to sink. And you know what he did? He said three words. He said three words. Lord, save me. And you know what the New Testament says? Immediately they were in the boat. Immediately. Immediately. Immediately. I mean just in the boat It doesn't say he reached out and got him by the arm and walked him back. It doesn't say that he reached down and got him by the hair of the head. I don't know. Listen, what it does say is that immediately they were in the boat. And that tells me the moment. Listen, friend, the moment. You as a sinner, look to Jesus as Savior. The moment that you believe. The Bible says that with the mouth confession is made of salvation, but it's with the heart man believeth unto righteousness. The moment you believe, the moment you put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. I know some's going to call this heresy. I know people say, well, but he didn't pray the sinner's prayer. I said that this morning. That thing's got me stirred up. You you you didn't say, well tell me what sinner's prayer we pray. Pray tell me what pray there's no magic formula. This isn't abracadabra. This is salvation by grace through faith. And my friend Peter said, Lord, save me. In that moment he saved him. Saved him. Saved him. Saved him from certain death. Saved him from sudden destruction. Saved him and secured him and set him on the boat and took him safely to the shore. And my friend, the moment you believe, the moment you believe. I was talking to that dear lady. I share her testimony a lot, but she so encouraged our heart when God saved her. I believe that that dear lady got saved before she ever hit the altar. In fact, I believe she got saved the moment she stood up. She didn't pray at that time. She came down to the altar to pray. But you could see a transformation in her heart. She turned to the Lord Jesus She was sitting there rejecting him one moment, and then the next she had received him. And I'll tell you, my friend, it's as simple as that. The Lord saves instantaneously all who turn to him. I remember as an eight-year-old boy calling on the Lord to save me, but I don't remember what I prayed. Some well-meaning, zealous individual preached one time, if you can't remember what you prayed, you're not saved. Man, for three or four years it put me in spiritual tailspin. I tried to remember. I I fancied I remembered. I I I I I tried to create a memory and and none of it worked. And I was glad for the day someone took their Bible and opened it up and said, son, it's not what you prayed. It's to whom you prayed. It's not what you said, it's what he did. It's not that you can remember all that was involved on your end, because listen, salvation's of the Lord. It's a work of God's amazing grace in a wicked old sinner's heart, and thank God for the day that He saves you. My friend, it's an immediate salvation. If you're saved tonight, you're as good for heaven as if you've already walking streets of gold. And that doesn't give you reason to puff up your chest. and crow like a little rooster. It gives you all reason to bow before the cross, worship the Lamb of God, praise Him for saving a sinner like you. Because when you get home, you know what you're going to be doing? You're going to be singing the grace and mercies of God. But we preach Christ. My friend, if you don't know him, I highly recommend him. He is the greatest thing that's ever happened. In my life, many of you sitting here would say the same thing. Many of you would say, Preacher, he's the greatest thing. God's done some good things in my life. God's given me a good wife and family, and I thank God for all of that and and all the things, all the good things that God sent my way. But the best thing happened to me happened the day the Lord saved me. My dear friend, if you're not saved, this could be the day. And you know the good news is you don't have to be sitting in a church house. You can be sitting at your house and be saved. You can be listening to this broadcast driving down the road You can be doing your doing about going about your business, going about your day. And my friend, wherever, wherever. Wherever a plea for help goes up, wherever a cry for mercy comes forth, wherever that Lord save me is uttered Is the place you'll meet Jesus. And he listen, he's no respect of uh respecter of place nor person. He'll save anybody, anywhere, anytime that'll come to God through him. And he'll save you, friend. And dear brother, sister, may we never get over what God has done for us. Salvation's not a shallow thing. It's not a cheap thing. It's a wonderful thing. It's so it listen, it's something that that that it ought to be the the song of your soul. Don't you like that old hymn, The Haven of Rest? The song of my soul, since the Lord made me whole, has been the old story so blessed. Oh, thank God for the story of Jesus who died on our behalf, was buried, and rose again the third day. Dear brother or sister, don't get over being saved. It's the greatest thing that ever happened in your life. We ought to continually thank God for it. And be in awe. You know, today for some reason we seem to want to be amused. I think we need to go back to being in awe. I can go home and be amused. Some cruel person told me I could look in the mirror and be amused. But I'm not going to call their name though they're present in this building. Because I love them more than that. But you know what? I need to stand in awe again. Of God who would love somebody like me enough to give his only begotten Son. Oh, what a thing it is, what a wonder it is to be saved by grace through faith. Dear brother, sister, let's stand in awe of him and praise him for what he's done. And then don't keep this to yourself. Don't keep this to yourself. Don't take for granted everybody knows. In fact, you know something, those that do know like to hear it told. I've never met a true Christian get mad because another Christian told him the gospel. Tell others. Tell them what Christ has done. We ought to encourage each other. We ought to encourage each other with the gospel. The gospel is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth. And there's a mutual encouragement that's shared when we speak the gospel and we share the gospel. And we need to be encouraging God's people, but let's be a witness and tell others there may be someone you work with, and they're like Peter going down for the last time. And they don't know who to cry out to. They don't know where to turn. But perhaps you could tell them of Jesus and his power to save, and they could say, Lord, save me. Lord save me. Oh, may God stir us. May God stir us to tell others. Brother Dow, I want you to come, please, and I want us to sing a hymn of invitation.