Gospel of John, chapter number eighteen. And I'd like to begin reading in verse number twenty-eight, and I'm going to read to the end of the chapter. This passage is commonly called Jesus on trial. Maybe your Bible says that over top of it. But the reality is, it's not Jesus who's on trial here, it's Pilate who's on trial. And I think we'll see that here this morning. John chapter number 18, beginning in verse number 28. The Bible says, Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment. And it was early, and they themselves went not into the judgment hall, lest they should be defiled. But that they might eat the Passover. Pilate then went out unto them and said, What accusation bring ye against this man? They answered and said unto him, If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto thee. Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him and judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not lawful for us to put any man to death, that the saying of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spake, signifying what death he should die. Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again and called Jesus and said unto him, Art thou the king of the Jews? And Jesus answered him, Saest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation and the chief priests have delivered thee unto me. What hast thou done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight? That I should not be delivered to the Jews. But now is my kingdom not from hence. Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? And Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Everyone that is of the truth heareth my voice. Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews and saith unto them, I find in him no fault at all. But ye have a custom that I should release unto you one at the Passover. Will ye therefore that I release unto you the king of the Jews? Then cried they all again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber. I want you to look at verse number 38. For verse 38 is our text, and the question that Pilate asks, what is truth? That's a good question to ask if you want the answer. I'm afraid Polly didn't want the answer. But what is truth? Father, we bow our heads before you and thank you for the privilege that we have again to gather in this place. We thank you, Lord, for the songs we've already both sung and heard We thank you for the stirring of the Spirit of God in our hearts through the truth of what you've done on our behalf. I want to thank you, Lord, for a full and free salvation. Purchased by the blood of Jesus Christ. Lord, we want to thank you this morning for the comforter, the Spirit of God, who indwells every saved person. We're praying just now, Lord, that you would undertake, as the word is preached, hide me behind the cross, help me to rightly lift up Jesus. And Lord, in mercy, help some to see the truth. I want to thank you, Lord, for the truth of the Word. I want to thank you for the truth of Christ. And Lord, help us now to be faithful, to preach the truth. We'll give you the glory for all that you do, for we're a waiting people. We're waiting on thee, O Lord. We're looking to Thee. We need help from above. And we thank you now for all that you do, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. And God's people said Amen. After a long night of interrogation and insulting and Abuse at the hand of the Jews. Jesus is taken early in the morning to Pilate, and he is brought to him for the express purpose of being put to death. They stated very clearly that they could not take him and put him to death. It was not something they could do. uh their political system did not allow them at that time to uh put a man to death, but of course under the Roman governance, the Roman powers that be could, and so they brought him to Jesus for that or brought him to Pilate for that purpose. And Pilate begins to interrogate the Lord Jesus. He begins to ask questions. He seeks the true identity of the Lord Jesus. He says, Who are you? They say, you say, you are the King of the Jews. And as Pilate begins to question him on this matter, Jesus gets to the heart of the matter and says, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me? You see, the Lord Jesus always deals personally with every individual. He deals with us on our personal level. There's a plan being carried out. But you notice that the workings of the Lord Jesus is in the heart of this man Pilate. He's confronting Pilate with the truth. He wants Pilate to know the truth. Nothing said or done could reverse the course of what's about to happen. Jesus had to die. It was decreed in eternity past that he would die for the sins of the whole world There was no circumventing the cross, there was no attempt made to go around the cross, but there was at the cross an effort made to reach every individual there with the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so Pilate is confronted with this. He said, Are you saying this, or did you hear somebody else? Jesus begins to explain his kingdom. He did not state I am a king, but he assumed that Pilate understood the fact that he was a king. He took the position, he is the king. By the way, he is the king. He doesn't have to state the fact. It's all it ought to be assumed. The reality is Jesus Christ is the King. And then watch as he begins to reveal something about his person in verse 37. He tells him, This is the reason I was born, and this is the reason I came, and I'm to give witness or bear witness unto the truth. And everyone that is of the truth heareth my voice. Then Pilate makes this statement. Boy, it's a good statement had it had any heart to it. What is truth? But watch what he did. When he had said this, he went out again to the Jews. He didn't stay and let Jesus answer, he didn't stay and entertain what might be said. He said it, this is almost a sarcastic question on Pilate's part, as he says, What is truth? Being under the Roman government, I'm fully convinced that Pilate was uh an idol worshipper just like the rest of his day, that he would have uh bowed to many gods and and perhaps had no god above him except uh that of the great leader of Rome And yet he would just sort of flippantly say, What's the truth? What is truth? I pray the Lord will help us to see some truth here this morning. I want you to notice first the inquirer, and the inquirer here is Pilate. Pilate is the man who asked this question. Pilate is the man standing in the hot seat. Pilate is the man who's under the microscope. Pilate is the man who's in the crosshairs of the Lord Jesus. And he says, here's what he says, what is truth? I want you to notice something here. His interest. Did not reveal any investment. In other words, he really didn't want to know the truth. And by the way, not everybody wants to know the truth. Not everybody wants to know the truth. Let's just be honest here this morning and acknowledge the fact that we often want truth from a lot of places except from the Lord. Uh we want mechanics to tell us the truth. You hope to find one. You want a doctor to tell you the truth. We want the person down at the bank to tell us the truth, but why is it that we're so skittish about God telling us the truth? By the way, he always tells the truth. Jesus revealed that he did nothing but bear witness unto the truth. He spoke nothing but the truth. Everything about the Lord Jesus can be printed in bold, bold letters, truth. T-R-U-T-H. Everything he said was true. Right, yeah, yeah. We see the interest of this inquiry. He really wasn't interested in the truth. And then I want you to notice the incident that brought this to pass. The Jews had brought him out of envy and spite, and of course, in hopes that Pilate would put him to death. But the incident reveals that God was doing something in his life. God was doing something in Pilate's life See, none of these things were on accident. None of this was just mere happenstance. He was confronted with the truth of God and the gospel there at this very moment. And my friend, listen, he missed it. God makes no mistakes. There's no accident. Perhaps you're sitting here. There's no accident that you're listening. There's no accident regarding the the the truth is being presented to you and here is Pilate as we look at this man and the truth is is there and the truth is embraceable. In fact, though the cross was unavoidable, the conversion of Pilate was a possibility. Pilate could have been saved here at this moment. Pilate was at a crossroads in his life. He was at a place that God had designed for him to come to to be confronted with the truth. The affairs of his life had pressed him and pushed him and brought him to the place to where there was truth staring him in the face and truth looking him in the eyes, and truth that could very well save his soul. But he said, What is truth? He blew it off as just mere another religious zealot from Jerusalem that was passing off of the scene. What is truth? You know, a lot of people are like Pilate today. They're mere inquirers. They have a measure of interest that that that that is selfish perhaps in nature. All they're looking for is maybe a troubled conscience to be s sealed and and to be stealed and a troubled mind to be soothed and they're just looking for a little salve. They're not looking for the cure. And they say, Oh, what is truth? Here's how we say it in our day. That's your truth. Well, I've got news for you, beloved. It is not my truth or your truth, it is God's truth. I don't have a a title to it, a copyright on it, and you don't either. The truth of God is in the Word of God, and no man can lay claim to it and say, It is my truth. What is truth? Well that's your truth. People say things like that today when you say you need to be born again, they say, Well You know, that's your truth. That's your truth. In other words, that's the convictions you live by. That's the thing that you perceive to be true. And my my dear friend this morning, understand this. This is not the truth of man, this is the truth of God. And Pilate was not being confronted by a religious velet. He was being confronted with Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God. And the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ was staring him right in the face. He was a mere inquirer. It may be you this morning. It may be that you're sitting here or listening, or perhaps we'll hear this down the road, and you're saying, Well, what is truth? Is there truth? I hear one say this and another say that. Somebody might even suggest another thing that is a totally different alternative option. But my friend, what I stand before you today and declare is not my truth, it's not Maranatha's truth, it's not a Baptist truth, it's the Bible truth. It's the truth that Christ died for your sins, according to the Scripture. That He was buried and He rose again the third day, according to the Scripture. It's the truth of the saving message of the gospel that Jesus Christ saves. Notice there's another crowd here. Jesus describes them. Not just as an inquirer like Pilate, but he speaks of the enlightened. Look at these in verse 37. The last sentence. Everyone that is of the truth heareth my voice. Everyone that is of the truth heareth my voice. Can I ask you something to the saved? Do you remember when you got saved, how much the Bible made sense after you read it, after being converted? When you got born again, it wasn't that you suddenly became intelligent. It wasn't that you you got an education in Bible matters uh just you know overnight or miraculously. The truth of God registered with your heart because you'd been saved. You'd been changed. You're of the truth. Who's he talking about here? He and everyone that is of the truth heareth my voice. He's talking about the converted. He's talking about the men and women who have been confronted with the truth of their sin and the truth of the gospel. and the truth of the saving grace of God. And having heard that truth, they have repented of sin, believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, and been born again from the from above. They're born of truth. You say, preacher, you sound like you believe in a supernatural thing in salvation. You better believe I believe in a supernatural thing. It's a whole lot more than just joining up and becoming one of the bunch. It's a matter of God doing a work in a man's heart. Salvation is of the Lord. And everyone that heareth my voice, listen, he's talking about these men and women who have been converted. You men and women who are converted. He's speaking of you. You hear the voice of God. And no wonder. No wonder. John 16, 13, just flip over there and look at it, please. It's right in the neighborhood. John 16, 13. You have someone in you who identifies with the truth. John 16, 13, listen, howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, has come. He will guide you into all truth. For he shall not speak of himself, but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak, and he will show you things to come. If I can put it this way, he's the inner translator of the truth of God to your spirit. He's the inner translator of what's being said by God that will register in your spirit. He's communicating to you the very truth of the Lord in the terms that you can grasp and fathom. It's God taking that message. If Brother Bishop were to get up behind the pulpit this morning and address this congregation in Spanish. There might be a handful here who would know what he's saying. The greater majority of us wouldn't have a clue. But if someone came, Brother Shiraka came alongside of him and began to translate for Brother Bishop And were to say in English what he's saying in Spanish, we would say, Oh, that's what he's saying. We get it now. He's speaking in terms that we can understand. And the Bible says that when you got saved, the Holy Ghost came to live inside of you. And the Holy Spirit of God translates the truth of God to you and I so that we comprehend it. We hear that voice and we hear the truth of God. And so the converted know the truth. The converted are of the truth. These men and women have been enlightened. Have you ever spoken to someone who's lost and tried to explain the simplest of truths? And they look at you like you got two heads. And then you try another way and you say it again, and they look at you like, Man, you're weird. What's your problem? Do you really believe that? You know what is happening there? It's the contrast of dark and light. It's the contrast of dead and alive. It's the contrast of lost and saved. There really is a difference. And if you're born again, you know the reality that the truth of God registers in your heart because God in heaven has given you the spirit of truth and he communicates truth and you hear that voice. Pilate didn't have a clue because he didn't have the spirit. Pilate was an inquirer. He was not enlightened. I want you to notice that he was being confronted, though. He was being confronted with the truth. He was being confronted. Now imagine this. He had a privilege, we don't, he had the privilege of standing in the presence of the person of the Lord Jesus Christ in a physical way. He could have reached out and touched those hands that will soon be nailed to a cross. He could see the blood streaming down his face where he'd been beaten already. He could see the living, breathing person of Jesus Christ, hear him speak of his kingdom. In fact, the Bible tells us that when he preached on the earth, that no man ever spake like this man When they heard the Lord Jesus speak, they said, nobody talks like that. He didn't speak as one with hesitation or reservation. He spoke as the authority. He was not speaking upon authority. He was speaking as authority because he is God's Son. And so as he began to speak, Pilate, I mean he's confronted, he's confronted with the truth. But I want you to see something very sad here. I want you to see how he just shook it off. He said, What is truth? I if I could make it a little more practical, he just went, What's truth? There's no truth. You know, in essence, Pilate is saying there's no truth. I mean, I heard what you said, I I I heard the words you spoke, I I heard all that. But what's truth? Do you have a handle on truth? Are you the embodiment of truth? Do you possess the truth? Are you the speaker of truth? You know Pilate would question as he dealt with the Lord Jesus. He would say something very bold to him, and he did it as a blind man. He said, I have the power of your life in my hands. You remember when he said that? I believe Matthew recorded it for us. He said, I I can I can say put him to death and you'll be put to death, or I can say spare him and you'll be spared. And Jesus said, No man hath authority except it comes from my Father. You know what he did? He spoke the truth. And as he spoke the truth to this man, this man just blew it off. He was confronted with the truth. Let me say to you this morning, if God is dealing with your heart and you're being confronted with the truth, don't blow that off or shake it off as something like. It's a serious thing for God to deal with you individually. I remember when I got saved, it was like I was the only person in the room. In 2,000 people sitting in the auditorium of Trinity Baptist Church. I felt like the preacher had found me, singled me, was talking to me, and had forgotten there's anybody else in the room. You know what was happening? I was being confronted. The truth of God was confronting my heart. The Spirit of God was dealing with my heart. I was being confronted. And it's a serious thing to say, what's truth? And to shake it off like it means nothing. Pilate heard the voice, but he didn't hear the truth. And it may be this morning there's someone listening to me, and you're hearing my voice, but you're not hearing the truth. And it may be that you're taking Pilate's course. You remember later, Pilate washes his hands and says, I'm through with this man. But that man wasn't through with him. Pilate might have been through with Jesus. Pilate might have said, I'm finished with him, put him to death, was turn the page and move on. But there will come a day when Pilate himself will stand in front of that man whom he rejected Whom he cast off and said, What is truth? Listen to me. You can block the message, you can get through the service, you can go home in your way, you can go about your life, but there will come a day where you will not escape the person of Jesus Christ. You will stand before him, you will be accountable to him, you will look upon him, and you will recognize the reality that truth was put in your face and you rejected it Number three, I want you to notice not only the enlightened and the uh the inquirer, but I want you to notice the embodiment. In verse 37, Jesus answers him this way: Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. You'll notice that the connection here is that truth is tied to a person. Truth is tied to a person. Jesus said it like this: I am the way, the truth, and the life. You see, the Lord Jesus in truth cannot be separated. He's the embodiment of God's truth. He's God's truth about the Father. He said, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father He's God's truth about eternity. He said in the beginning was the Word. And the Word was God. The Word was with God. Same as in the beginning with God. He's the truth. Everything the Lord Jesus spoke, he spoke the truth of God. Notice again that truth is tied to a person. I'm glad I can stand here this morning and say very boldly and very plainly that truth is tied to the person of Jesus Christ. It's not tied to the church. Amen. It's not even tied to this church. Now we hopefully are tied to the truth, but the truth ain't tied to us. I I want to be a church that's all about truth. I want to be a church that's all about the Bible and what the Bible says and who Jesus is. But listen to me, dear friend, truth is not encapsulated in the church, be it this church or any other church. There are churches that believe that they hold the key to truth. And they lay claims to the fact that their interpretation of the truth is the truth. Aren't you grateful that the truth of God's not tied up in the mullied-up minds of man? It's written down plainly in the precious Word of God. That when it comes to truth, truth's not about man's interpretation. I'll tell you, I've come to learn some things over the years, hopefully. I I I hope I didn't get some gray hair without getting something to go with it. Amen. But the reality is, my dear friend, listen to me. No man, no scriptures have any private interpretation. And there have been some things I've interpreted the Holy Ghost said, you're wrong, buddy, and the Bible's right and you bear change. Truth is not tied to the church. Truth is tied to Jesus Christ. If you want to know the truth, get to know him. I want you to notice the connection and then notice this something very crucial. If you want to know the truth, go to the truth. Go to Jesus Christ. The Bible makes it very clear here that Jesus came to Make truth known. He said to bear witness unto the truth. You know, I believe God would answer an honest prayer like this. Lord, I want to know the truth. Will you show me? I believe you'll answer that prayer. I'm not asking you this morning to believe on on the basis of what I'm saying. I'm asking you to believe on the basis of what he said. And my friend, if you if if you're struggling, that may be true. And look, you've got to understand we're not living in the same culture that most of us were raised in. Someone was speaking to a young person. I think the person was about seventeen years old, and they were talking to him about Jesus, and this was his honest a his honest question. Does he live around here? Should I know him? Like he was a neighbor or something like that. And the reality is that he had lived his whole life without any knowledge of who Christ is or the word or any teaching whatsoever And so when it comes to that, you've got to recognize that you and I have have been uh uh uh uh abundantly deposited truth within our hearts and minds that there's a whole lot of the world don't have any knowledge of. And so as we do so, we must remember that if a man is honest and wants to know the truth, I believe God will show him. I was reading of a of a people who were reached some time ago, and there was a man in that in that village who wanted to know the truth, and here's here was his prayer. He just he he was discontent Over the sacrifices and the idols that they worshipped and all the things that they did. And he said, One night he went out and he looked up and he said, God If there is a true God, show him to me. And God at the same time was working in a young man's heart. In a far, far away, another part of the world, and putting it in his heart for these people, and putting a desire in him to go tell them about Jesus. And when that man arrived, that man who had prayed that prayer was the very first convert. No wonder he was he was hungry for the truth. He said, God, I want you to show me the truth. Now listen to me. I I I let me say it like this. I dare you, on the authority of the Word of God, to say, God, show me the truth. And if you'll pray with an honest, sincere heart, there is a God in heaven who will show you the truth. Don't let the religious adornments that have been Sometimes mistakenly put on Jesus, rob you of meeting the real person. Have you ever let somebody color your thinking about another? And maybe you heard something about them, and you were told this about them, and you didn't even like them, and you didn't know them You just got, you said, look, I heard that and I heard this, and you swallowed it all like truth, and you said, you know what, I don't like them. When I was pastoring back in North Carolina, we had a family, two families that had been warring for years. I don't know what the original thing was about. But I do remember that that one family coming to the church, and that other family on a Sunday morning ceremoniously got up and walked out the back door and slammed it as they went. And I went to visit them that afternoon and I said, Hey, what's going on? I was oblivious to the to the feuding and all of that business. And they said, Oh, that we we hate those people. I said, Why? And I started to dig it up, try to find out why do you hate them? What's the reason? What's behind it? And I'll never forget that dear old lady. She's probably in her 70s, 80s, and she was sitting there and she said, Well, I can't rightly tell you I said, what do you mean you can't tell me? She said, well, I don't like them because my mama didn't like them. And and and I said, well, why didn't your mama like them? She said, I don't know. My grandma didn't like them either. And this went back four or five generations, and they said, listen, we don't like those people, and they had no clue whatsoever as to why they didn't like them. And there are a lot of people who will reject Jesus Christ based on something somebody said and you haven't investigated one bit at all. You've not said, Jesus, who are you? You've let a Christian. Maybe a Christian's let you down. By the way, they all will at some point. Maybe somebody's disappointed you and a preacher's failed or a church has has has had trouble and you've gotten caught up in all that and and you know what it's it's soured you. Towards Jesus Christ. Listen, don't let his representatives ruin his testimony and reputation. We do have this treasure in an earthen vessel. Oh, ask the question, be be very serious about this and be very uh be very uh crucial, take this as a crucial matter and say, Jesus, who are you? I want to know who you are. Many years ago when I first went up north, there was a pastor on the other end of the province And I'd heard every kind of tale about him I could I mean you uh the everything but but scandal. Oh he believes this and he believes that and he's weird and he's that he's that and the other and I told my wife, I said, I'd really like to know what he believes. And the only way to find out is just to go see him. So I got in my car and I drove six hours to the southern end of the province and I knocked on his door and I said, Pastor, I've come to talk to you. And he said, Good. He said, I've heard you were up there, prayed for you, what have you. We sat down in his living room, we spent a whole afternoon talking to each other. I asked him what he believed, and do you know what? 99. 9 % of what I heard was wrong. Now he was weird, right? And I love him, and I tell him, I tell him he's weird now. I text him every once in a while. How's my weird friend? He's just different. But people had gathered all these tales and gathered up all these lies, and they had believed something without any facts whatsoever. Now, you can do that with somebody, and I don't recommend it. I think it's very foolish. I think it's very childish to believe something about someone based on what you hear rather than what you know. But let me say this, dear friend, it is critical that you believe what you believe about the Lord Jesus Christ based on the Bible, not based on hearsay. You find out for yourself who Jesus is. Pilate didn't have the time. Sadly, his political career seemed to be threatened. The pressure of the Jews was growing and mounting. The the Schedule was filling up, and so he had to move on, and he moved on at the risk of his soul. Oh, dear friend, hear me today. Find out who Jesus is. And listen to me. Don't get your theology off of TikTok. Instagram and God forbid you get it on Facebook. We're living in a generation that believes what they believe because they saw it on Facebook. I just saw something the other day, Sasquatch talking. On Facebook. He was eating little Debbie cakes. Now he can't be a bad creature if he eats little deby cakes. Amen. Christmas tree debby cakes, the crown of Debbie cakes, right? Has to be true. Huh? It's on Facebook. Has to be true. I saw a video about it. Hear me now. Listen, don't be so shallow. Don't let the devil dupe you and deceive you. Don't let the your soul be damned over something you see that someone has created. Get to the Word of God. Call upon Jesus Christ. Show me yourself. Make yourself known. He'll do it, beloved. You can come to a conclusion about Jesus Christ. There may be a lot of people you can't ever nail to the wall, so so to speak, as to who they are and what they are. They're sort of like politicians, you know. Man, I'll tell you, they can shake your hand right, left, front, back, up, down, and get used to twisted up. That's not Jesus. He's the truth. For this cause I came, for for for to this end was I born, that I should bear witness unto the truth. And write Listen, my friend, everything he said is true. Now come to this. Last of all, I want you to notice eternity. He talks about a kingdom in verse thirty six, that his kingdom is not of this world. In other words, he's saying, my kingdom is not wrapped up in real estate or ruling parties. My kingdom is a kingdom in the hearts of men. Look at this back here at Luke with me. Luke seventeen. Luke chapter seventeen, verse twenty. The Gospel of Luke chapter 17 verse 20 reads And when he was demanded of the Pharisees, when the kingdom of God should come He answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation. Neither shall they say, Lo here or lo there, for behold, the kingdom of God is within you. The kingdom that he speaks of here is an eternal kingdom. It's the kingdom that comes in the heart of all who believe on the Lord Jesus. Who are the subjects? We know who the king is. The king of this kingdom is Jesus. He's the king. You know, isn't it funny that God's people have trouble With bowing just to one king. Did you ever notice Peter when he was getting right with God in John chapter 21? The Lord's dealt with him personally. He's restored him. He's gotten back in fellowship. And the first thing he does is say, What about this man? As if he had any care whatsoever or concern about John, it was none of his business. And that's what Jesus essentially said. He said, if he live till I come, what is that to thee? Follow thou me. In other words, Peter, stop meddling in people's lives and let me be God. You be my servant. You follow me, leave them alone. There's a lot of Christians that hadn't figured out Jesus is the only king we're called to bow to. They think it's their part and partial in life to be the ruling master in some other brother or sister's life. I've got news for you, friend. There's one who rules. Jesus Christ alone. And we bow our knees to Him. But you'll notice these subjects, they're His servants. Jesus said, if my kingdom were of this world, my servants would fight. Who are those servants? They're servants of the truth. They're men and women who've come to recognize the truth as it is in Jesus. They've heard the voice of truth. They've recognized that I'm lost and dead and hopeless and helpless without God. And that I need to be saved. And they come to this king, and this king has done a very noble thing. He's gave his son for their sin. He gave the his son for their wrong, and he was nailed to a cross and crucified and shed his blood and then rose again the third day. And this king delights in giving mercy on the basis of the sacrifice of his son. And when you come to this king and say, Oh king, have mercy. I'm a lost, hopeless sinner. I'm dead and hellbound and deservingly so. He delights in giving mercy. He takes pleasure in pardoning sin. He takes delight in forgiving and cleansing. And these who come for mercy find they're made subjects now of this new kingdom. Now Jesus illustrated it like this. In Matthew 22, he tells the parable of a wedding feast. And that wedding feast he called some to come and they they said, Well, we're busy. We got this reason, that reason. And he said, go out into the highways and hedges, compel them to come. You just bring them in. And it says that the bad and the good came. And when they came in, the king, it says, came to the to feet to the feast. The king came to the to the wedding And when he looked over the congregation, the gathered peoples, he saw one without a wedding garment. Now that tells me that likely that garments were given that were suitable for the guests. That when you came in, you had to put that robe on. And it was a suitable robe for the feast that was being enjoyed. The beauty of this robe is it covered you whether you were rich or poor. It was it didn't matter, I mean, if you had nice clothes or or ragged clothes, this robe would cover you, and it would cover you completely So that when the king looked out over there, he's looking for those that are robed righteously for the feast. And he sees a man. And he sees that man, and that man don't have the robe on. He don't have the wedding garment. And he says to his servants, Bind that man and cast him out. And he's cast out, it says, into outer darkness where there's weeping and wailing and gnashing and grinding of teeth. This is a picture Jesus is portraying. Of people who are not saved. You see, the robe that was given was the robe of righteousness of Jesus Christ. Heaven's currency is righteousness. God's interest is righteousness. He doesn't care if you're a Baptist, a Methodist, Episcopagan, or whatever. He cares if you're righteous. And if you're not righteous, you're not ready to go to heaven. You're not able. You're not saved. You need that robe. And I'm saying to you that as eternity hangs in the balance , It's crucial that you understand what the truth is. To step into eternity and say, Well, I'm here with my baptismal certificate, is to be bound and cast into outer darkness. To step into heaven and say, Well, I'm a member of Marinatha Baptist Church, the Lord's going to say, cast that one away into outer darkness. To enter into that place with anything other than the righteousness of the Lord Jesus, the robe that He alone can provide. Listen, dear friend, He will give that to you freely. You don't have enough money to buy it. And you don't have enough time to earn it. But the truth of the matter is, is that he gives freely this rogue of righteousness to everyone who will come to him and ask. You might be a lost, hellbound, hopeless sinner thinking there's no hope. But I've got good news for you today. There's hope in Jesus Christ. There's a robe of righteousness that will cover your tattered rags. You say, preacher, it's awful, it's dirty, it's filthy. You can't imagine how bad. But I'm here to tell you that robe of righteousness will cover it all The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from every sin, all sin, and all manner of sin. Thank God for that robe of righteousness. You know, Christians are really people who are depending on another to get them home. That's what we are. Now, if you meet any other kind, they're a fake. If you run into any other sort, they're impostors. If they tell you they're good people, they're doing this, that, the other, they have missed the mark. Because a Christian is someone who's saying, I'm counting on Christ to carry me through. That's a Christian now. This robe of righteousness is freely given to all who will call upon him. It's a sad and sure fate for everyone who does not have the righteousness of Christ. Now look, don't take my word for it. Don't sit here and say, Well, I believe it just because you said it. Don't do it at all. Say, God show me, is that true? Is that in the Bible? Is that really what it takes? Is that the reality? Don't be so careless with your soul. You know the sad thing is there are some people more careful with their possessions than they are their precious soul. They're careful. I'll not name him, but I know someone every time he drives his car. And they don't go to church here, so don't think it's somebody you know. But every time he drives his car, he's got one of those dusting brushes. He'll dust it. Top to bottom. I mean dust it. I've ridden with him before and when he when you get in the car, if you leave a fingerprint on the door handle, when you open it, he'll walk around and take out his handkerchief. You clean that off. I've got to the point if I go anywhere with him, I say, open the door for me, please. I'll get in and sit down. And then I get in and sit down. You know have you ever read you you sit down and you're like, I'm scared to touch anything. My son couldn't ride with somebody like that. He's got to touch everything. He's got to adjust the radio, he's got to touch touch the Heat in the air and and fool with everything on the dash. If it's got he's like a raccoon. If it's got a some kind of uh you know, twinkle on it, he's gonna mess with it. I tell him, don't you ride with this fella. He'll throw you out on the side of the road somewhere. He will have a nervous breakdown. Because he don't want his stuff tarnished. Hey, it's people that care more about what they ride and where they live than where they'll spend forever. Everybody I'm looking at, including you looking at me, we're all gonna live forever somewhere. We're eternal beings. Every one of us. And there's going to come a day when we'll have to give answer to what we've done with the truth. Listen, dear friend, be careful what you do with Jesus. Because one day you'll ask the question, what will Jesus do with me? A. B. Simpson wrote that hymn many years ago, the Old Alliance preacher from Prince Edward Island, Canada. And he said very wisely, you be careful what you do with Jesus. Because one day you'll have to say, What's Jesus going to do with me? If you're not saved, you can be. And if you are saved, remember whose kingdom you're a part of. Remember what's really important in this whole world. Live for Him. Bow the knee to Him. Give your best for the Master. Yield yourself to Him. Let's all stand together, please. As our brothers coming with the hymn of invitation, if you're not