Amen. Boy, open your Bibles to John chapter number six. And thank you, Pastor, and thank you, church, once again for allowing me to speak here. I hold it a high honor to every time ever to speak from the Word of God. I am not worthy to stand here. Um I'm not worthy of anything. So he sang them songs, boy. We could get that if that would be an earnest prayer of ours, to ask God to take Egypt, take whatever the le is left of the world that's in us, take it out of us. Boy, what we could do if we could earnestly pray that. John chapter number six this morning, I want us to read a very familiar passage. Of the Bible, where we see it in John chapter number six. We can see it again in Mark chapter number six. See it also in Matthew chapter number fourteen. This is when Jesus walks on the water. And uh we're going to read start reading in John chapter number six and verse fifteen. It says, When Jesus therefore perceived They would come and take him by force to make him a king. He departed again into a mountain himself alone, and when even was now come, his disciples went down into the sea And entered into a ship, and went over the sea toward Capernaum, and it was now dark, and Jesus was not come to them. And the sea arose by reason of a great w wind that blew, so when they had rowed about five and twenty or thirty furlongs, they see Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing nigh unto the ship And they were afraid. But he saith unto them, It is I, be not afraid. Verse twenty one Then they willingly received him into the ship, and immediately the ship was at the land whether they went. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you for this opportunity. Lord, I thank you for your word. I thank you for this church. Thank you for the pastor here. And Lord, I pray God you just continue to bless them here richly. I pray for all these dear folks here today, listening, and wherever they might be today, listening by radio. God, I pray that you bless them and speak to each heart. Lord, you spoke to me through this passage and these thoughts you've laid on my heart, Lord, I pray that you'll help the folks here with that same thing you've laid on my heart. And God, I pray most of all, Lord, for the lost soul that might be listening in today. God, I pray that you'll prick their heart. Let them know they're lost. Let them know they're on their way to hell without you. And God, they need you as their Savior. I pray, Lord, today be the day they trust you. Lord, I pray that they get on their way to heaven. Lord, it's a great way to be going. I pray, God, that they trust you as their Savior. I pray for the Christians here today that you'll just help us through your word. I pray, Lord, that Jesus would be magnified, lifted up above all else. Lord God, we want to worship and honor you, for you're the only one worthy. Lord, I pray that you'll hide me behind the cross, but Lord, fill me with the Spirit. Give me the words to speak. I don't want to say anything, but Lord, I want to say what you'd have us to hear. We thank you now in advance for what you'll do. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. John chapter number six here , very familiar. Jesus walking on the water, right? And uh I remember You're hearing this story and you see it in Matthew where Peter also joined the Lord. Um and I thought it was funny as I studied this John and the book of Mark, neither one of them give any account to Peter walking on the water. That only comes from the Gospel of Matthew. Now it doesn't say there's a contradiction. They just left it out. And I believe there's a great reason for it because Jesus is the focus. Jesus was the one who allowed Peter to walk on the water. Jesus was walking on the water because he was God. And he could walk on the water. And Peter was allowed to walk on the water. But what I want to see here this morning in the title of my message is What to Do in the Dark Storm. And my key verse, or one of my key thoughts, come from verse number 17 here in John chapter 5. It says, and entered into a ship and went over the sea toward Capernaum. And it was now dark, and Jesus was not come to them. Here in the passage you see that we had the story of the feeding of the five thousand just previously, and as soon as it's done Jesus tells the disciples, get in the ship and go over across the sea. And he went up on a mountain alone to pray. And Here we have the evening comes, it's dark, and the Lord is not with them. And we see it as you read the account that they're out in the middle of the sea, it's dark, and there's a storm, and the Lord is not with them. Boy, I I know there's a lot of times in our lives we feel that way. We feel like we're in the midst of the dark storm and it seems like Jesus isn't there. And what do you do when you're in the midst of that time? I'm going to tell you, I'm going to show you what we got to do. We have to rely on his word. Rely on his word. Because Jesus left them with words And and told them to do something, and that's what they were doing. They were going to follow God's word. So when you're alone without the Lord, it seems like you're without the Lord. We have to rely on His Word. And we know this, we can rely on His Word. The Bible tells us throughout principle over and over that God is faithful and He doesn't lie. And we see it in verses like Titus chapter 1 and verse 2, where it says, In the hope of eternal life, Which God that cannot lie promised before the world began. There's another verse in Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 18 that tells you at the end of it that it is impossible for God to lie. And I'm glad of that. Think about it for a second. If God could lie, this blessed book we hold in our hand would be nothing more than a regular book that any other man would write. And our salvation would be in jeopardy because what he said could be subject to change. But I'm glad this morning that God cannot lie. His word is true from beginning to end, and he is still faithful. And he's never going to lie. He's never going to break his promises. When you're in the midst of a dark storm or a dark time and you think you have no hope, you think Jesus is not around, rely on his word. I'm going to tell you this morning and I hope you have a King James Bible in front of you. If not, you're at a severe disadvantage because I believe that this is the preserved Word of God for the English speaking people here in the King James Bible. So if you don't have one, you ought to get one. We have his word. Rely on his word. The disciples here were given a command by Jesus, and they were told to do something. They were told to go across the sea. And here they're they go out, it's dark, and a storm arises. Maybe it didn't even seem to make sense to them what they were doing. But we gotta remember that it's important the Bible tells us that the just shall live by faith, right? We don't live by feelings You know, some they they thought that Jesus wasn't there because he wasn't present with them, but he still was present. Oftentimes we feel like we're all alone in the dark storm, but we've got to remember to live by faith. There's a lot of times that our feelings can shift, our thoughts can change, but I'm glad that God is still faithful. So rely on His Word. We're told throughout the Bible that the just shall live by faith. We're told in 1 Corinthians that we walk by faith and not by sight. I'm glad of another great promise from God in Hebrews chapter 13 where he says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. These are some promises to hold on to when you're in the midst of that storm. In the midst of that dark time when it seems like Jesus is not there. Rely on His Word. He's given us His word of promise and it's precious. It ought to be precious to you. If you're a Christian here today, and uh I'm going to meddle a little bit. If you're a Christian here today and you don't read your Bible There's some problems. This is God's love letter to you. You need to read it. Um You have trouble with your Christian life. You have trouble getting Egypt out of you. I preached it this morning on Sunday. Rely on His Word. You know, the world around us, the lost world, they have no hope. It's gloom and dis and despair for them. And and and it's it's it should be, because that's all it is to them. But a lot of Christians are the same way. A lot of Christians w walk around and mope and they're all just depressed. And I think a lot of it comes to the fact that they're in storms. There are storms in life. And they don't know their word, they don't rely on the word, they don't trust the word of God, so therefore they are almost hopeless. We have a sure word of promise in God's Word, and we can trust it. Sometimes in the dark storms it may seem like Jesus left us, but he hasn't. We've got to trust him and trust his word. Here in the these between the John and Matthew and Mark, we're going to look at it flip back and forth a little bit. But I want to show you what we can do. In the midst of the storm, and what God's word will do for us. What relying on God's word in the midst of this dark storm will do for us. The first one that it does, God's word gives us protection from deception. Here in John chapter number six and verse fifteen, this is right after the feeding of the 5,000. Jesus did a mighty miracle, fed all these people. And the verse says there in verse 15: when Jesus therefore perceived that they would come and take him by force to make him a king, he departed again into a mountain himself alone. In the book of Mark, chapter number six, and in Matthew, it says that he constrained the disciples to get into the ship. And that word constrained means to force. I mean it's it's uh with um urge them aggressively or almost even to like thrust them onto the ship said, You gotta get on this boat, go across the sea, I'm going up. And why Because he perceived that the the Jewish people here were going to take Jesus and make him a king. Well You would think that would have been better, but then what was going to come a little bit later, right? They were going to crucify him, but that was the will of God See, it wasn't God's time. Jesus will be king. He became King of Kings and Lord of Lords, but it wasn't time. And he said, They're gonna come and do this by force and make me a king. So he he pushes the disciples away. Why? Because I think the disciples would have got wrapped up in the frenzy of what was going on. And thought, yeah, we know that thou art the Son of God. We know you're the king, so let's make you king now. The disciples would have jumped right on board with the whole crowd and would have been against the will of God and against the word of God So Jesus said, get on the ship and go over to the other side because they're going to do something that's contrary to the word of God and the will of God. So God's word, Jesus' word here, protected the disciples from deception. We need to mark that in our lives that God's word will protect us from deception. In Matthew chapter 24 and verse 4, Jesus said, and Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you. We see in the book of Romans, chapter number sixteen, verse eighteen, for they they that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly. and by good works and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the simple. And I I read that passage this morning as I was re reading over this stuff. That passage in Romans said that they don't serve God, they serve the God of their bellies And when you read the account here in John, that was what these folks was doing. These folks didn't see Jesus as the Messiah. They saw him as a great miracle-working guy that could feed their belly. And could produce he says that after he comes back, because they they followed him over to the other side of the sea. You can read that and you pick up the account later on in chapter six. He says, You didn't come here because of the miracles of the sick or anything like that. You came because I fed you. You got your bellies full. Our world today is full of people after feeding themselves and their belly and what we want, what I want, and it's easy to get deceived by that crowd So we've got to hold on to God's word to protect us from deception. There's deception on every corner out there today. There's a different church by every name, there's a different Bible by every name, and there's a whole bunch of deception. Folks, we need to rely on God's word to protect us from that. Because it's very easy to get mixed up. It doesn't take much for someone to twist a little bit here, twist a little bit there. They've mixed this with this, and guess what? The devil is the author of that. You read back in the book of Genesis, and what did the devil do? He questioned what God said He he he put in a little doubt to Adam and Eve and said, Yea, hath God said? Yeah, he did Well the next thing the devil did too. The devil changed what God had said. He you know, y that's what the devil does in today's world. He he puts doubt and confusion and changes the things that God has said to where folks get deceived. So Christian, we need to Hold on to the Word of God. Know the Word of God so that it'll protect us from the deception that's out there. I see it again here in this passage. That God s Jesus sends the disciples across, and this storm is is is is a is a wicked storm. You can read it in Matthew it and Mark. It talks about how rough it was, the waves had tossed them. And how aggressive this would be. I don't know about any if anyone in here is a uh much of a sailor. I went deep deep sea fishing one time and that was an expensive sickness. Cause I paid them all that money and I just got sick and it was not a good time for me, but that guy laughed all the way to the bank with it. 'Cause everyone on that boat, there was probably thirty people on it, and everybody was hanging over the edge. There wasn't a single pole in the water. He made out like a bandit. I don't know where I was going with that. Anyway. Oh, the sea was rough. And these these these men, they were fishermen. They were used to rough seas, but it was it was still a job for 'em. You can read that in Mark and Matthew and here in John as well. But I see God's word number two. God's word gives them a purpose. God gave them a purpose. Look with me. Keep a marker in John, but go with me to Mark chapter number six. This is the same account in the parallel. Gospel. Mark chapter number six. Mark chapter number six and verse forty five Gives you that, and straightway, this is right after the feeding of the five thousand, straight away he constrained his disciples to get into the ship and go to the other side unto Betheda. While he sent away the people. I notice the Lord made sure he was going to be the one to send away that crowd. That that stands to reason that he was the only one capable of withstanding that crowd from deception, because he was God. He sent the disciples away, but he gave them a purpose. He said, go to the other side. It's just what he said, go to the other side. He didn't give them a whole list of commands once they got there. He just said go to the other side. And I know why he did that. I believe he did he didn't give them any more commands because he knew they weren't going to get to the other side to begin with. before he was ready to meet 'em. You know, you see that, that he met them while they were on the water. And in verse forty six it says when he uh had sent them away, he departed into a mountain to pray. And when when when even was come, the ship was in the midst of the sea. And he alone on the land? And he saw them toiling and rowing, for the ways was contrary unto them. Jesus is up on the mountain to pray, no doubt to pray for them, and pray for the things that that he had to do. And the disciples are out there toiling and rowing, but they had a purpose. They had a purpose, and that purpose was to go to the other side. Now the disciples would have thought that was kind of silly, probably. They just had a mighty miracle. Everybody was happy. And uh and that goes back to the first point where Jesus knew what was coming. So that's why he sat on the other side. I think as Christians we get wrapped up in what we think. And we don't realize God has a purpose. We need to follow His Word for the purpose in our lives. We need to lean not on our own understanding, but on God's word. God tells us in the Bible, in Isaiah 55, verses 8 and 9, he says, for my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. God plainly tells us that, hey, it's not going to make sense to you because my thoughts are higher than yours. I know how many times us Christians do we try to rationalize things that's going on in our lives and we try to put it in our human perspective when we don't realize God's thoughts are higher than ours. God has a purpose. If He told you to get in the boat, just go to the other side, because that was the purpose. Don't think about throwing out a line while you're out there or trying to do whatever it might be. No Do what God told you to do. Rely on his word for the purpose. And stick to it until he gives you another one. God's word is full of purpose for the Christian. And folks, we get distracted and sidetracted because we don't stick to the purpose. We get wrapped up in our own thoughts, in our own minds, and we forget that God has a purpose God's ways are higher than ours, and if we could wrap our mind around that and get an understanding of that, how much better our Christian life would be Jesus sent the disciples away. Surely they're thinking, this is crazy. Surely they're in the boat, it's dark. They're probably tired. I'm sure they've had a long day. And they're thinking, why wouldn't we have just rested and got up early in the morning and come over here? Or or if the storm's bad, let's turn around and go back You know, I'm sure that they had these thoughts. I there might have been other boats out on the water. They're going this way back to the land because the water's rough. I live up close to Lake Erie, not real close, but hour away from Lake Erie And there we went up there fishing one time and they it got a storm blew up and they put out a a small craft warning. They said, if you're in a small craft, get off the water, because it's dangerous. And uh we didn't have a radio, but some other people told us that, which we were already heading in anyway, because we're not sea we're not fishermen, we were already seasick. But uh when they come around I'm sure there was other boats going, What are you guys doing? You crazy? You're going right into a storm. Turn around, go back to the land. And that's where we're going to get into the next point, that God's word gives us persistence to carry on. God's word gives us the persistence, and I thought about this. He gives us the power to go on. They would have in their minds agreed with all those other people or or themselves. They were fishermen. They knew water. They knew the the seas, and they'd have thought, boy, we ought to just turn around and go back. This is way too rough. We're liable to get shipwrecked or something out here. And who knows what might happen. They probably had warning from other people, but they thought, no, Jesus told us to go to the other side. We can't turn back now and Jesus told us to go over to the other side. Christian, when Jesus gives you a command, don't let up on it. Rely on his word because it still stands until he gives you another one. Um, I was not in the military, but I know in the military if they give you an order, you don't do anything different until they give you another one, telling you otherwise. That's the order. You do that. You follow the order. God gives you orders. Rely on his word. These men took that literally as they should have. Jesus said, go over to the other side, and they said, well, we've got to go over the other side. It may not make sense to me, it may not be pleasant, and it may not even be joyful at all, but we're going to do it because God told us to do so. In the storm and dark time in our life when God says, or Jesus seems like he's nowhere to be found, and we're seeing like we've hit rock bottom, But listen, friend, if you can rely on God's word, you know you're serving God, trust God, and go to the other side. Continue on for God. Do what he said. Rely on His Word. It'll give you the power to get through because we're frail people and we will we will give out. I believe Pastor uh preached not that long ago a sermon about faint yet pursuing. Hey friends, we're gonna get weary in this battle, but continue on. Continue on, and God's word will give you the power and strength to do so. Rely on what he said. There was a reason for it, trust him for it. I notice the persistence here. I did a little bit of some research. Here in Mark chapter number six and verse 48, it says he to all them toiling and rowing. And the wind was contrary unto them, and it was about the fourth watch of the night he cometh unto them, walking upon the sea. Now, if you read back in John and it said that it was evening when he sent them away. But now we come to the fourth watch of the night. The fourth watch of the night is between 3 and 6 a. m. So I don't know what time they consider evening. You can look that up in Jewish time, you know, Jewish what they determine is the evening. But let's just say even if they considered it six nine p. m. evening I'd call that bedtime, but that that was evening. They've been out there for at least six hours, toiling and rowing. Boy, that'd have been rough Got a steady six hours out on the water toiling and rowing to try to get to the other side. And I looked up the uh The distance they went that was given to you in John said that they went either between 25 and 30 furlongs. Well, that's between 3 and 3. 75 miles. The Sea of Galilee, at its widest point, is only eight miles wide. These men have been toiling and rowing, fighting with all their might to get to the other side of this this Sea of Galilee, and they've not even gone halfway. And it's been nearly si at least six hours. But they're persistent. They were persistent because Jesus told them to go to the other side. Friend, it don't matter how long that dark time seems or how long that storm seems when God told you to go through it, for s just keep going. Be persistent in that storm. I love this. I was reading this. Jesus saw them toiling and rowing. Verse 48 it says that. It says, and he saw them toiling and rowing. Aren't you glad? You may think you're alone. It may seem like you're all out of out of sorts, but Jesus sees you. He'll see you toiling and rowing and he'll see you being persistent to what he said. I would almost picture him stand up there and say, Look at 'em go. Look at 'em go. You know, I I mean, they're toiling and rowing. That's rough stuff. Hard work. And I'm sure that Peter always had something to say. I'm sure he was probably complaining or something. It's not given to us in there, but knowing Peter, I bet he had a few things to say. About them toiling and rowing. Maybe doubting Thomas, thought that there was no hope. They were all going to die. I don't know. But somehow or another they stuck together and were persistent because of Jesus' word. And I love that Jesus sees them. The Lord sees you toiling and rowing. The Lord will see you when you give up, too. I know a lot of people. Uh we had a guy, this has been a long time ago, come to the church, and he worked at a he was Hispanic and the work he worked at had a lot of Hispanic people there. He got saved, and then he was on fire for God, and he had all these dreams about reaching all the the Hispanic people at that workplace and we we we ordered all these These Spanish tracks for him to take and man he was just on fire for the Lord. And we thought what a blessing this is going to be. He's going to reach all these folks because he could speak that language fluently and he was he was on fire for God. He had been saved from a horrible place In two months he came back and he told me he gave the brought the whole box of tracts and paperwork back to my dad and he set it down on his office desk and he said, Preacher, it's not worth it And he gave up. Friend, it is worth it. Be persistent. My dad tried to counsel him and tried to give him some scripture to encourage him, but he done made up his mind. I don't know what all the circumstances were in his life, but the devil was attacking him. Why? Because he was doing what God wanted. Friend, when you get into the place where you're doing service for God, you're reaching lost for souls for Christ, listen, the devil's going to be on your your tail. The devil's not going to like that. Why? Because you're building the kingdom of God. He don't want that. He don't want souls getting saved. He don't want a good steady door-knocking program and a bus route that's thriving. He doesn't want that So guess what? Be be careful. Be persistent. Because the storms will arise. It's the Lord's will. He sent them in it But it's also sometimes a tactic of the devil to throw you off course. But just be persistent in that event anyway. The Bible tells us here that the wind was contrary, and I kind of already mentioned that, how the other people were probably going back to shore, but the word contrary here it means against them. They were rowing into the wind. If you're a sailor, you know that that's not logical. And these men would have known that, but God told them to do it. Christian, our Christian life is going to go contrary to the world around us. We're going to be failing against the wind in the world. And we're supposed to. The Bible tells us that, that we're going to be going a different direction than the world, and you ought to be. If you're just floating along down the lazy river of time with the world, you're going the wrong way. You need to turn around. Continue is the way Jesus said. He said, go over to the other side. And he didn't take into consideration that they were going to say, well, but Lord, the wind's going the wrong way. He said, go to the other side. Friend, you're not wrong if you're sticking to God's word and it's contrary to everyone else. Because God's word is not going to go with the flow of mainstream world. God's word is contrary to the world out there and the lost world. And even some Christians today, because they're not following God's word. They've turned around and they're floating with the pleasures of life in the world and they're going contr they're going contrary to God's word, when they ought to be going contrary to the world. God told them to do this. They could rely on God's word. They know they were doing what God told them, even though everything around them told them they were doing it wrong. But God told them they were doing it right. You ever feel discouraged, feel like that? Feel like you're everything you're doing is just wrong, it couldn't be right, but yet you know God told you to do it? Just keep doing it. Be persistent in that. God's word gives us protection from deception. God's word gives them persistence or the power to go on. And then thirdly, God's word gives us peace. In uh in John Chapter number six. Verse 19 says, So when they had rowed about five and twenty uh or thirty furlongs, they see Jesus walking on the sea. And drawing nigh unto the ship, and they were afraid. Bad enough they're in the storm. Things are really rough. They've been out there, they're tired, they're wore out, they've been doing they've been trying to keep the boat going as the best they can. Now they see somebody walking on the water. That would really throw you off, wouldn't it? I mean you've got to put yourself there. Folks, we we read the Bible and we forget. I try to do this every time I read something in the Bible. These are real people. This was a real event that happened. Put yourself there. Are you a real person? Put yourself there. Think about this. You're out here in the midst of this storm. It's rough. It's crazy. It's dark. You you can barely see just a little bit, and the next thing you know, someone says, Look over there. What look where? Look north. What is that? Oh, it looks like a person. Can't be. It's on the water. You think about it, right? But as they're looking, they say, well, no, that is a person walking on the water. Someone at one of them had really good eyesight. He goes, listen, buddy, I can see real clearly, that's a person. He's walking on the water. How? I don't know. It must be a spirit That's what they said, right? You read in the accounts, they're st and they're afraid now. Now they're thinking, Well, now what? Boy, I don't know. It's it seems like now there's some sort of spirit coming against us or something. What is this But listen, rely on God's word, because what Jesus then spoke up. They're afraid. They're terrified. He said unto them, It is I, be not afraid. But you notice he says that, you can read the other two accounts there, Matthew and Mark. The storm doesn't stop then. But they're not afraid no more. Peace comes from God's word. Jesus said, Be not afraid. It is I, be not afraid Hey, they thought, boy, this is the end for us for sure. You throw your paddles down, just forget it, because this is it. And he says, be not afraid. It's I And peace come about them. And you can read the account in Matthew there. Then Peter said, well, if it's you, let bid me to come unto you. That's in Matthew. And he Peter walks on the water, and you get that account. But here in John verse 21 says, Then they willingly willingly received him into the ship. And immediately the ship was at the land whither they went. Notice Jesus Got in the boat, and the storm ended. And immediately they're at the other side of the water. Remember, if you read previously, they weren't even halfway. But Jesus immediately got on the other side. He didn't want to sail no more either. He got on the other side. Listen, friend, aren't you glad that we can rely on God's word? Whew, to take us to the other side. You know, we can toil and roll and do whatever we can in our life, but it's never going to get us to the other side. But by trusting in God, trusting in Christ, when he enters into the boat, praise God, when he gets in the boat with you, well , you're on the other side. You don't have to worry anymore, you don't have to twirl and row anymore because you're on the other side and the storm is over. You have peace and joy within. Praise God. Folks, we get so down in the dumps and so upset about things, but we need to understand that if God is with us, who can be against us, the Bible tells us, right? Hey, the storm was dark. They thought Jesus wasn't there. But then he he says, It is I, be not afraid. And then he gets in the boat and praise God, it's all over. There's no more trouble I'm looking for the day when he'll call us out of here. We're currently in the boat. We need to pers be persistent And stick to God's word, rely on what he said, because listen, there's gonna be a time coming where he's gonna get in the boat and he's gonna take us to the other side. I'm glad I'm waiting for it, are you? Are you going? No. I've been studying a while. I've been trying to put a mess. I don't know if I'll ever get it together. I keep getting distracted. But I've been studying back in Genesis with Noah. In the boat. In the boat's a salvation. Boy, I'm glad I got on board. There's a whole bunch of good songs about that. I love them all. The old ship was on. Get on board while it's passing by. Amen? Listen, friend, if you're here today and you're not saved, you need to be saved. Because you're not going over. The Bible makes it very clear. The Bible tells us over and over and over we can understand that we are all sinners. You're born a sinner, and you're going to live your life a sinner, and until you trust Christ as your Savior, you're going to die a sinner. You're going to die, and what happens then? You'll go to hell. I wish it weren't so, but it is. But you know, praise God, the facts, the fact of hell, so true and so sad, how many folks are gonna go there. There's another side to that That praise God how simple it is to get to the other side with Jesus. Trusting in his word His word give us everything we need. The Bible tells us to believe on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. Amen. I'm glad that I don't have to do a whole bunch of things to make it there because I can't do it. I talked about that in Sunday school. We cannot on our own do it. We can't get there These men could have told and rode and did whatever they wanted and and and they'd have never they may have may have eventually made it there, but I believe they would have been ended up getting turned around and not making it there. They got too tired, they wouldn't they weren't even halfway Friends, we're the same shape. We can't make ourselves get ourselves to the other side without Jesus. How many people I know of that are trusting religion, or they're trusting their good works, or they're trusting some prayers that they've prayed, or they're trusting Some sort of monies that they've paid or whatever the case might be. But friend, if you're not trusting in Jesus, you're not going. If you're trusting in anything other than Jesus, you're not going. The Bible makes that very clear. You need to have a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ, and Him alone will save your soul. Let him get on the boat with you and take you to the other side. The peace that Jesus gives them, because that why? Look at verse 21. Said then they willingly received him into the ship. You know, they could have said, We got this Lord. We're doing just fine. We'll we'll be there just in in a matter of a few minutes. He could have walked himself back to shore. He walked himself out there. But they willingly received him in the ship because why they needed him? They knew who he was. And when you know who Jesus is, and you know who you are, you know what state you're in, you know what storm and what what what things are going on in your life, you know you need him in your boat, you willingly let him in I know uh that when you get saved, when you realize the condition you are, I've talked to a lot of people and and uh oh man when they realized that they were needing the savior. They couldn't wait till that invitation. I've heard of numerous accounts of people sitting in a on a church pew and hearing the gospel preached. And they're thinking, would he just shut up and they play the invitation so I could just get saved? Because I need it. I know I need it. They're wanting to willingly receive Christ. Now think about the other folks. They're saying, Would he just be quiet so I can get out of here? And they're not really willingly receiving Christ. How sad that is. Friend, if you're listening in here today and you're not saved, willingly receive him today. If you are saved, you still need him. Willingly receive him into the ship. Let him get you over to the other side. I'm glad that Jesus is the one who controls the seas. There's a song He's the Master of the Sea, right? He's the master of it all. He was God. As I mentioned earlier, the book of Matthew is the only account that gives any reference to Peter walking on the water. And I had already kind of mentioned it's because Jesus is the focus here. Peter's not going to get you over the other side. I know there's a whole whole religious system built on the the Pope Peter, so they think. And listen, Peter's not getting you to the other side. Only the Lord Jesus Christ is going to get you to the other side. The focus isn't on Peter, it focuses on God. His word sent them His word kept them safe while they were out there, and then his word delivered them. And Christian, we can count on that today. God's word is going to keep us, and it'll deliver us. God 's word gives us protection from deception. God's word will give us persistence and the power to go on. And God's word gives us the peace to the soul and the spirit, and then the soul, the storms of life. John chapter 14 and verse 27 says, Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Friend, are you trusting Christ? Are you relying on his word today? It'll help you. It'll get you to the other side. It'll calm them storms. It'll calm that soul and spirit. Give you that peace. What a blessing. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you for this day you gave us. God, I just thank you for the opportunity. And Lord, I'm thankful for the day that I accepted you as my Savior. And Lord, I pray most of all, Lord, I pray if there's someone listening here today That doesn't know you as their Savior. God, I pray that today you've touched their heart. Speak to them right now. Tell them, let them know that they're going to hell without you. Let them know they need to trust you Lord, I pray for the Christians, wherever we might be, in whatever storm, Lord, I pray that you'll help us. Be persistent. Rely on your word. We'll thank you for it. In Jesus' name we pray.