And verse 19 says, Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man, and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily. Now, the record is she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. That's God's inspired truth. The reality is Joseph struggled with that. Because he didn't understand. He said, I'm going to put her away. I mean, you understand in that culture that an engagement was as binding as marriage. And she she in his understanding had been unfaithful. When you read these Bible accounts, put yourselves in their shoes. Sometimes we read them with the vantage point of knowing what's going to happen. We know how this is going to end up. Joseph didn't All Joseph knew was she's with child. Now God put it on the record with the Holy Ghost. Aren't you glad God knows the truth? God writes with unerring accuracy the truth. But Joseph struggled. Father, would you help us tonight and speak, O Lord, as only you can for your glory and for our good. And we ask it now in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. I would urge you to read the rest of the account. And in fact, let's just do that, beginning in verse number 20, but I want you to see how the Bible records both sides. The Bible recorded the record that is true. It's the record of God that she what she had carrying in her womb, what she carried in her womb was the very Son of God. And a miracle took place. I don't know how else to explain it. In fact, you can't really explain the way Jesus was conceived. There's some things you just have to believe because God says them. And God said, that's what happened here, that she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. And then Joseph said, I'm going to have to put her away. I'm going to have to end this relationship because he didn't understand. But in verse 20, while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph. Thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son. And they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. Then Joseph, being raised from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him and took unto him his wife, and knew her not till she had brought forth the firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. You ever thought about what Joseph went through when Mary conceived? You ever put a human element into these Bible records? You and I've got to remember something. These people in the Word of God didn't float down from heaven on clouds. They're like you and me. They're flesh and blood. And can I say to you that a lot that was happening in Joseph's life at this time did not make sense? It just plain didn't make sense. It didn't make sense to him. Who had ever heard of such a thing? Well, I believe Joseph knew his Bible And Joseph knew what the Word of God said, but perhaps he never thought it would happen to him. It's one thing to know what the Bible says, it's another thing when it comes barking up your tree. Here Joseph is and he's he just can't make sense of it all. I've said I wanted to be practical through these Sunday evening meetings this month and I We want to address this subject of what to do when life does not make sense. It does not make sense to Joseph that Mary is with child of the Holy Ghost. If it made sense, he would not be planning on how to divorce her. If he understood what was going on And if he really believed it at this point with all of his heart, he would not be fighting this battle. So apparently it just didn't make sense to him. How many of you have lived long enough to know that there's a whole lot of life that just doesn't make sense Vance Abner said, God writes over some of our days. We'll explain later. Seems to me like he writes that over a bunch of them. The reality is that a lot of the life doesn't make sense. I was reading through the Proverbs the other day And I found this verse, and it's really stuck in my heart. It says, the way, it's Proverbs 21, 8, the way of man is froward and strange. Don't that answer a lot of questions? The way of man is forward and strange. His way is just odd. Oftentimes things don't make sense. Maybe you're sitting here at night and what's going on in your little world just it don't make sense. You're trying to make sense of it all, but you just can't seem to make sense at all. You're trying to figure it all out, and you just you say, Preacher, I just can't figure it out. Why the disappointment? Why the letdown? Why have I been left alone? I know I've told you the story of a dear missionary who went into eternity so quickly and unexpectedly. At that time, I believe there were four little children in that family. And that missionary wife got the call and said, your husband was in an accident, truck crossed over, took his life. They were over in Eastern Europe. And immediately she said absolutely nothing that happened from that point forward made any sense at all. It didn't make sense. I'm sure sitting here are people that there's things happening and you say, preacher, it don't make sense to me. I wonder if Joseph every once in a while thought, this doesn't make sense. The Lord told me that I'm going to be a great leader one day. And here my brothers have left me in a pit, and I hear them up there talking about killing me. That don't make sense. God said one thing, but my circumstances are going another way. I'm sure when the Midianites came along and bought him for a price and marched him down into Egypt, I'm sure he said, This don't make sense. This just does not make sense. God said one day that I would be a ruler and people would come, even my family would come and bow down. He told me that, and God does not lie, but this does not make sense. How many of you have ever been there where what God said and what you see just don't line up? Ever been there? Sure. Well, God's your word says, but Lord, this is all I see right now. A lot of things do not make sense. Oftentimes, I've said this before, and I'm becoming more convinced of it the older I get. Um life often leaves you with more questions than it does answers. I wish I had the I wished I had the answers that I had in my twenties. But I've come to find out there are a lot of things I don't have an answer to. There's a lot of things you just say, preacher, again, it don't make sense. Look at Joseph. Can you imagine the conversation It obviously showed that Mary was bearing child, and Joseph says, How and what? And she says, Well, let me tell you, an angel came. And the angel said that that holy thing, and we're on sacred ground here, but understand, there's a human element to all sacred ground. This is sacred ground that God would come and do as he did in Mary's life and in Mary's body and plant the very Son of God in her womb. That's a sacred thing. But it's also a puzzling thing because Joseph is hearing these words and he's saying, How can that be? Even Mary very honestly said, How can these things be? See, and I know not a man. And so there was a great deal of things that just didn't make sense. Oh, we celebrate it now with Cute little plays and beautiful little nativity scenes and a whole season dedicated to his birth. But I'm here to tell you There was a great deal of questions and wondering and trying to figure it all out and trying to see what kind of sense this all made when Jesus was born. I think sometimes we romanticize things that are really, really hard. People look back in the past and say, oh, the good old days. You remember what it was like to have an outhouse? I'm not trying to be crude, but until I was about thirteen years old, that's what we had. We had a two-bedroom and one path home. I said path, not bath. We had a path. And I I you know I was thinking of that the other day. The wintertime is a tough time. It wasn't fun when it was cold. I'm not trying, I'm just trying to say, oh the good old days. Remember the good old days of having to carry water? I told the kids in school one time in my life I said I was bored. My dad said, are you bored? Really? I said, yeah, dad, I'm bored. He said, all right. He said, here's a five-gallon bucket. At the bottom of that hills the creek. He said, I want you to go down there and fill that fill that bucket up of water And I want you to cross over. Now there's a creek on this side. It was down at the other bottom of the hill. He said, I want you to pour it in there. I said, Really? He said, Yeah. And so I made one trip, come back, took another trip, made another trip. I said, Dad, what's the purpose in that? He said, are you bored? I said, no, not anymore. He said, good. Don't ever say that word again around me. Andy, that went out of my vocabulary. I think the last time I used it is was from a pulpit. I wouldn't dare say it. I didn't say as long as he lived and he was around. I wouldn't say the word bored. Because I didn't want to carry water. Good old days. We romanticize things that might have been really tough. You imagine being Mary and Joseph. Don't you know the rumor mills were running? Don't you know the gossip tongues were wagging? Don't you know the shame and the humiliation and the and the embarrassment of, hey, these two aren't married? Here she is with child. And Joseph said, I don't know what to do. This doesn't make sense. Mary's not that kind of girl. I'm not that kind of man. The Bible says it was a just man. So what in the world? What's going on? Now, friend, you're kidding yourself if you think everything in your Christian life is going to make absolute sense. And if you and if it's got to make sense, you're going to go crazy before it does. Because it just won't make sense. Why this happened? Why Lord why me and why this and that? And all those look, it's not going to make sense But aren't you glad, aren't you glad there's a divine record of what to do when it just don't make sense? I don't believe there's a thing in my Bible accidentally, do you? I don't believe God put something down and said, Well, I didn't mean to put it, but I'll just leave it. No, everything he put here, he put on purpose Preacher, what do I do when things don't make sense? I mean it just don't make sense that I'm in the situation I'm in. It don't make sense at the things that are happening in my life or family or home or whatever. It just don't make sense Can I give you a few thoughts here from the life of Joseph? Number one, if you're making notes, wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. Look what he did in verse 20. But while he thought on these things. Do you know what Joseph is doing? He's thinking hard about this. He's running it through his mind. He's turning it over. He's meditating on it. He's trying to figure it all out. And he's waiting on the Lord. Can I say this? He was not in a hurry to act. He wasn't in a hurry. Do you know what happens when things don't make sense? A lot of times we get in a hurry to do something stupid. It's getting hurt. How many have ever been lost driving somewhere? Not talking about being. Yeah. You ever notice how you drive faster when you don't know where you're going? Why do we do that? I don't know where I'm going, but I'm gonna go quicker. And we drive faster. We don't know where we're going. Back before we had GPS, we still we had a big old uh what is it, Rand McNally. Yeah, we kept in the car. And I remember we were driving back from one of our trips down south and we're heading up north again. And Elizabeth was my navigator. She read the map, told us which way to go. And I told her, I said, you know, we made this trip enough times now, I think I know where we're at. We're okay. You take a nap and she's over there, she's sawing logs and sleeping away. And I I like to when I ride, especially when I'm riding twenty seven hours. I like to stop and get a verse or two or three in my mind, and I just meditate on every word as I drive along. But the problem with that is sometimes I don't pay attention to where I'm going. And so we're driving along, she's sound asleep, and I I for a few moments I said, you know, I've never seen that set of mountains before. I don't think there's supposed to be mountains on this part of the trip. And I thought, well, maybe I just wasn't paying attention. And we rode on a little further and I started seeing road signs for places I'd never been to. And I started to realize that maybe I'm lost. So rather than do the right thing and wake her up and say, Where are we on the mat, I tried to keep my pride intact and say, well, I'll just drive faster. I don't know where I'm going, but we'll just go faster. And before you know it, we're heading up, we're oh, probably three-quarters of the way up in upstate New York. And we're not supposed to be in upstate New York, supposed to be on the other side of the east coast, over in Maine somewhere, especially the amount of time we've been on the road. And I thought here and it it was coming up and showing signs for uh the crossing there, forget what it's called, into into Canada, uh there at Ontario and at um I believe it was Buffalo. It said so many miles. I said, oh boy. I want to go to Canada, but not this end of it. And but I I looked down and and you know I was flying. I looked out at the speedometer and I was saying, wow, why am I going so fast? I don't even know where I'm going And I was going fast in the wrong direction. Here's what you do. You know what you do? You panic. When you don't know what's going on, when you don't when things don't make sense, a lot of times you do foolish things and I do foolish things. And we do it in a hurry. My Bible still says, wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord and be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. The Bible says in Proverbs 19:2, He that hasteneth with his feet sinneth. How many of you know you get in a hurry, you'll do something wrong? Every time. You hasten with your feet. Then you'll notice also that he wasn't in a hurry, but he was waiting on the Lord. I love this proverb. I've memorized it a long time ago and just write it in different places to keep my in my memory. But Proverbs 28, 5 says, They that seek the Lord, notice that, they that seek the Lord understand all things. You know what? Oftentimes you just got to wait long enough for the dust to settle and the Lord to make things clear. Just wait on the Lord. If it don't make sense right now, wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. I'm not saying He's always going to make it make sense. But here's what I do know. There's going to come a day, my friend, when he's going to clear up, and what he don't clear up, he's going to fix up You know why? Because 1 Corinthians 13, 12 says, for now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face. He may not answer all my questions and explain all of these misunderstandings, but here's what I know one day I'm going to see him. And when I see him face to face, look, there's a lot of things that bother me now that won't even enter my mind then. Then face to face. So just wait on the Lord. Friend, you don't know what's going on. If it don't make any sense, just wait on the Lord. Can I urge you, number two, number two, notice this, believe God. Just believe God. Look in verse 20. It says that the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, I like this, thou son of David. He was reminding him of his royal heritage. He said, I want you to remember who you are. You're in the lineage of the king That means there's kings coming out of your lineage. There's going to be a king come out of you. There's going to be a king come through your line. He said, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. Listen, aren't you glad God don't change his story? Truth remains Verse 21, and she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. You know what Joseph did right there? He just believed God. In spite of his feelings, don't you know his feelings were all over the board? Is was was she faithful? Was she unfaithful? I mean, what's going on Can I believe well I I I feel I'm sure he was torn. He was disappointed. We know that 'cause he w was pondering about divorcing her And he he no doubt was brokenhearted and his feelings were all over the place, but somewhere along the way he mastered his feelings and just said, I'm on belief God. He believed God in spite of his feelings, and then he believed God in spite of his fear. Notice the angel said unto him, Fear not. How many of you know that God's ways and works are not according to our understanding? God doesn't do everything in the way I would understand him or think that he should. So much of what our Lord does is beyond us, Isaiah said, it's as high. As the heaven is above. Look, his ways are higher than our ways. His thoughts are not our thoughts. See, our God is such a great and a mighty God that he don't operate according to the understanding of man, but according to the divine decrees of heaven. And you know what? I benefit and am blessed when I believe. I want to go on record and say you don't lose anything believing God. You don't lose anything believing God. Oh, you might lose some things if you believe you fear, and you might uh b lose some things if you believe on your feelings. But if you'll just trust God, I have not found one count in 66 books of the Bible where someone believed God and said, I wished I hadn't. In fact, you've got a whole roll call of heroes that believe God. And your Bible shouts from the pages of Hebrews chapter 11, it pays to believe God. It pays to believe God. You just go on believing. Let the crowd mock. Let the people ridicule. Let the shame and the humiliation come. It pays to believe God. You just go on believing God. Abraham looked for a city whose builder and maker was God, and one day he walked into the walls of that city. Listen, friend, Noah believed God and built an ark to the saving of his house, and on the other side of the flood, Noah and his sweet family stepped off the game plank of the ark and said, Thank God I believed him. And every one of us who believed the Lord, who believed God, one of these days you're going to open your eyes in a land that's fairer than day. See the Lord Jesus who saved you by his grace, and you'll say, Thank the Lord. I believed God. Just go on believing the Lord. You know how Joseph got help? He just believed God. God didn't change his story to accommodate Joseph's understanding. He didn't rewrite the accounts To bring it down to his ability to comprehend. He just said the same thing that was said previous. She's with child of the Holy Ghost. Joseph had a decision to make. I don't Comprehend it. I don't fully understand it, but here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to believe it. And there comes a place in your Christian life where you've got to believe God. You just simply have to say, look, my feelings are pulling me one way, my fears pulling me another, but I'm just going to believe you. I'm going to believe you because you're God. Hey, by the way, he's got a good track record of being trustworthy. You can count on him You just uh dig up some of those old saints and the accounts of the Word of God and ask yourself, does it pay to believe God? Hey, Daniel Daniel, does it pay to believe God? You better believe it pays to believe God. God's able to shut the mouths of lions. Hey, he the three Hebrew boys, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego Does it pay to believe God? Oh, it pays to believe God. God can take you through a fiery furnace without the smell of smoke being transferred on your clothes. Now that was a miracle. You know that You can't go in a coffee shop without coming out smelling like a latte moch moca, whatever you I don't know what they are. I don't drink coffee, so Have to ask some of these other fellas. But I know I know when you've been there. My son will come home and said, you stopped at Duncan's, didn't you? He won't bring it in the house. No. I smell it, man. You smell like a extra large coffee and donut. Extra, extra large coffee and donut. Well, you know what the reality is God brought them through and it says the smell of smoke was not on their garment. Now I believe that. I don't know how it happened. I don't know how I don't know how they went through such an event in their lives and yet come out on the other side, not burned and and and not even singed and not smelling the smoke, but that just shows that God can do things I don't understand. And I'm glad God does things that I don't understand. I'll be honest with you, I don't know how God takes a dead sinner and makes them a living saint in a moment of time. I don't know how God takes a dirty heart covered in sin and marred by sin and washes it in his royal blood. And makes us white as snow and makes us a child of the king. I don't quite understand all of that, but I'm glad he does those things. Thank God that he does things that defy our comprehension. I just want you to know you don't lose anything by believing God. Believe God. Number three, you need to recognize, what do I do when life don't make sense? Wait on the Lord. Believe God. And number three, recognize his sovereignty. Recognize God's sovereign. Now don't let that word make you nervous, church. Recognize this is the reality. It just means God is God. He's the one in charge. You notice what it says here? Look at verse 22. Now, all this was done. Here's the explanation. By the way, Joseph wasn't given this explanation. You are, but he was. Now all this was done. Why was it done? That it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet. saying, Behold, a virgin shall conceive, or excuse me, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. All this was done. All this was done because God 's in control. You see, my lack of understanding doesn't derail God's plan. God decreed in ages past, my son will be born of a virgin. God decreed that he would come to this world through Mary. Mary wasn't just a eny meeny miny mo. It was decreed of God. God said he's going to come in this fashion. This is the way God would enter this world. This is the way Emmanuel would come. It was the plan and purpose of God settled before the foundation of the earth was ever laid. And know this. God knew it would cause confusion. God knew it would cause misunderstanding. God knew that men wouldn't wrap their heads around it and Joseph would struggle with it. All of this was a part of the plan and purposes of God. It just lets you know God's God and you're not. Sometimes things happen in our lives to remind you that He's the Almighty and you and I are merely His servants. God's in control. My pastor used to say this. I didn't quite Cling to it like I do now, but he would often say, God's sovereignty maintains my sanity. The fact that God's in control. Look, if God's not in control, you're in trouble. I'm in trouble. You're in trouble tonight. We have reason to wring our hands and worry and take medication to stay level if God's not in control. But I've got news for you, God is The Bible shouts it with clarity that the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. He rules in heaven above. Everything's under his control. There's nothing rising above him. No uprisings will overtake him. He's just God and forever shall be. And Joseph, Joseph had to come to the place like you have to come to the place. God's in control. I don't understand it, Lord. I don't understand what happened. I don't understand this, don't make sense to me, but God, you're in control. Old Spurgeon said, God writes with a pen that never blots, speaks with a tongue that never slips, and acts with a hand which never fails. That's my God. See, my God's on the throne while Joseph is down yonder in prison. He's still God. My God's on the throne when Lazarus lays in a tomb, four days dead. My God's on the throne, and when the very Son of God says, it is finished, bows his head and gives up the ghost. God's still on the throne. But can I remind you of something? Lazarus is going to come out of that grave. And Joseph is going to come out of that prison. And Jesus is going to empty the tomb. And listen, friend, God will demonstrate before the whole world one of these days that He is still God. And every knee will bow and every tongue will confess. that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. It's going to happen one of these days, but until then you believe the truth. God's still God. Listen, when the man of sin is let loose on this earth, God will still be God. When the man of sin is unleashed in all of his power, and mankind is well nigh decimated on this planet. And this earth will rock and reel under the judgment of God. Listen to me, friend. God will still be on the throne. And listen, it's only going to take one mighty angel to bind the devil and cast him into the pit. Because God is still God. I think we suffer. I said we, not you. I think we suffer sometimes From an improper view of the greatness of God. I think we sometimes see him just sort of as a glorified angel. Or a magnified man. Friend, he is the Lord. Your little mind and my little mind can't take it all in as to how great he is. I heard a man say yesterday, I was watching a a a a program about Christmas in Europe and they were over in the Alps and they were they were up in some of these beautiful high mountains and They were trudging through the snow, and this man said this. I'm going to do some research because he's a public figure. I'm not sure if he's a believer on the Lord Jesus or not. But he said that these great mountains Shout the glory of God. I like that. I mean right right on secular television, he said the these great mountains shout the glory of God Oh, listen, when you see the beauty of something like that and you recognize my God formed it, fashioned it with his mighty hand. I'm going to tell you something. Evolution is more than a theory. It's a direct attack on the majesty and power of Almighty God. It's saying God can't do what God's done. Look, your bodies and mind are such intricate vessels The Bible says we're fearfully and wonderfully made. Isn't it I mean you think about how your body functions and and how the Lord's made it and all that it's capable of. And listen, friend, you you have to understand that your God did that. And our God is a mighty and a powerful and a wonderful God. We need to see God's bigness. That's what Joseph got a hold of. God, you're big enough. You're big enough to do this. You're a great and a mighty God. You're in control. And so if you if you want marry that virgin womb to have a child without the interference or involvement of man, then God's your God, you can do what you want to do. And and and Lord, if it makes me look bad, I'll take it because it makes you look good. I'm willing to endure it because God, it's part of your purpose and plan. I wouldn't choose it. I wouldn't say God signed me up for it, but somehow or another you decreed it, and I'm just going to go along with it because you're the Lord. Folks, that'll help us when life don't make sense. When you realize that God is still in control. Number four, and I'm through. Notice what it goes on to say. In verse 24 and 5, then Joseph, being raised from sleep, watch this, did As the angel of the Lord had bidden him. That's an awful powerful statement. The Bible says he did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him. You know what he did? Look, if you're making notes when life don't make sense, just obey God. Just obey God. He was obedient. It still didn't make sense to him. All the answers were not given. In fact, no answers were given, really. But he did what the Lord bid him to do. He just simply did what God told him to do. Can I encourage you that it's always in order to obey God? Here's a testimony of faith. This is a testimony of Joseph's faith. Joseph said, Lord, you said to take her, I'm going to take her. And God obviously gave him instructions about not being with her physically until that son was brought forth. He also gave him instructions on what to call him. His name shall be called Jesus. Joseph did everything God told him to do. Hey, have you figured out it's not your shouts of praise that matter, but it's your steps of obedience. I can still hear my pastor say, I don't care how loud you shout, just so long as you walk straight when you hit the ground. We put a lot of stock in noise. God puts a lot of stock in obedience. He said, I want you to obey me. Just do what I said. Now, do you realize that that's so much hinged on Joseph's obedience? So much riding on this, there's so much weight Resting on this these steps of obedience. And he did just what God told him to do. Sometimes the most spiritual thing you can do is to keep doing what you know's right. Just keep obeying the Lord. Preacher, it don't make sense. I know it don't make sense. Just keep being obedient. But but I don't understand how or why or what, but hey, just keep being on being obedient because That's what God honors and God blesses, and thank God Joseph was obedient. Best way to live as a Christian is just to keep doing right no matter what. Just keep doing right. You come out the other side. You go through a tunnel. It gets dark in there. You don't let go of the steering wheel and say, Oh my. Well you better not. They do that in Baltimore and places. But if you want to come out the other side, you just keep driving. Because that tunnel don't last forever. And I've got good news for you. This thing of it not making sense don't last forever either. Somewhere there's another end to this. Somewhere there's an end to that. And listen, whether it's here or there, the truth is that it will not always not make sense. There will come a time where, hey, by the way, sometimes God lets it happen right here in life. And you get on the other side of something and you look back and you say, I get it. You know what Joseph did? Joseph said to his brothers, You meant this for evil. God meant it for good. It all made sense, Brother Andy. It finally all made sense. Here he is standing. And God look God used him to save much people alive. God used him. God put him in the right place at the right time doing the right thing. And listen, it all made sense and somewhere down the road it may very well happen in this life. You'll look back and say, Lord, I know now why you brought that my way. I see now why that came into my life But listen, if you'll never get there if you stop being obedient before you get there. Just keep being obedient. Do what the Lord says. Sometimes the most spiritual act is just an act of obedience Remember that little song? I don't know if you guys sing it downstairs, Sister Mentir, but Obedience is the very best way to show that you believe. Then you spell it. Well, it really is the very best way to show you belief. Just obeying God. You know what? Joseph comes out of this, he comes out of this shining as a testimony of a man who believed God. And his faith's on showcase in Matthew chapter 1. And he said, okay, this divorce thing's out of my mind now. Mary, I'm taking you to be my wife. And away they go. And the story unfolds, the account plays out, and our precious Lord is putting a little manger out there in Bethlehem. And around that manger Is Mary and Joseph. Because when it didn't make sense, they both chose to be obedient to the Lord. Folks, sometimes life doesn't make sense. And yet God's shown us what to do. He's laid it out for us. He spelled it out loud and clear in the life of Joseph. You might be that person right now where some things don't make sense. You 're looking, you're saying, I don't understand why this and why now and why me and why here and why and you you got all these questions. But be Joseph, be a Joseph, be like Joseph. Do what Joseph did. And my friend, just simply wait on God. Wait on him. Don't be in a hurry to do anything, but get in his presence. Wait on him. Believe him. Believe him. Don't believe your fears. Your fears lie. As do your feelings. Just believe God. Recognize he's Lord. He's on the throne. He's not turned over the reins to anybody else, and certainly not you. He's still on the throne. And then just be obedient. Preacher, I don't know what to do until you get further orders. Follow the previous ones. Until you know until he says anything, just keep doing what he's told you to do. And be obedient. And in time you'll see what didn't make sense to you. Makes perfect sense to God. Isn't it awesome to stand here some 2,000 years later and read this? Do you ever feel like, man, I wish I could get , hey Joseph, break in the story. Hold on a minute. Timeout. Joseph, don't be discouraged. This is going to turn out better than you thought. You ever just feel like that when you read the Bible? Well, pray for me, I do sometimes. This y you don't know where this is gonna go. And my friend, that might be you. There's a cloud of witnesses. I don't know what all they get to see. But the Bible tells us there's a great cloud of witnesses watching you and I run this race. And I wonder if some of them don't want to just say, oh, let me tell you something. There's a whole lot bo better things waiting. You you don't get discouraged because th this is going somewhere you can't see where it's going. Oh friend, may God help us to see. It may not make sense to me, but the one who matters has got it all under control. Let's stand together, please. Father, help us now. I don't know what your people need, but God, I'm glad you do. I'm glad, Lord, you know you people. You know us right where we are. And so, Father, would you help us this evening to be sensitive to your spirit? Perhaps, Lord, there's one in great need. Would you would you undertake as only you can? And Father, we'll thank you and praise you, for we ask it in Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed and riser