Your Bibles please to the book of Acts, chapter number 15. The book of Acts, chapter number 15, and I'm going to begin reading in verse number 36, and I'd invite you to stand with me, please. as we read God's Word again. Acts chapter number fifteen and starting in verse number thirty-six. And some days after Paul said unto Barnabas , Let us go again and visit our brethren in every city where we had preached the word of the Lord, and see how they do. And Barnabas determined to take with them John, whose surname was Mark. But Paul thought not good to take him with them who departed from them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the work. And the contention was so sharp between them that they departed asunder one from another. And so Barnabas took Mark and sailed unto Cyprus. And Paul chose Silas and departed, being recommended by the brethren under the grace of God. That is Silas was recommended. by the brethren under the grace of God. And he went through Syria and Cilicia confirming the churches. The Lord helping me this evening, I want to preach on this thought when God's people contend. When God's people contend. Father, I bow in Jesus' name and pray for your help just now. Lord, we sure need you. We always need you, but sometimes very keenly we're aware of the great help that we need that, Lord, only you can provide. So for these few moments, Lord, would you empty me of me, fill me with you, and help me to preach the word. I pray, Father, that you would undertake for every need, work in every heart, give us ears to hear what the Spirit saith. And may we truly individually do business with thee. We love you and praise you and thank you and ask now for your help in Jesus' strong name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. You know, there are parts of the Bible that I would label as sad events. Certainly, starting back in the Old Testament, Adam and Eve's choice in the Garden of Eden was a sad event. Uh fast forwarding Lot and uh his family going down into Sodom, that was a sad event. There are multitudes of these, but here in the book of Acts, in chapter number 15, I read of another sad event. One of the reasons I know the Bible is inspired because it tells the whole story. It doesn't just tell us the good, it tells us the bad and the ugly to go with it. I don't know about you, but if I was telling the tale of the Apostle Paul and I was telling the tale of a man like Barnabas, I would leave out these embarrassing moments in their lives and ministry, but God doesn't. God doesn't leave those things out because God wants you and I to learn something from them. And so we find here the contention that took place between Paul and Barnabas. I want you to look at four things tonight, and I pray the Lord would use them, because the truth of the matter is, contention did not end with Paul and Barnabas when they went to glory. God's people still contend. Now contend is a good word in some ways. The Bible says we're to be contending for the faith. But the contention that took place here was a sharp disagreement that drove division between the two men. That was really unnecessary. So think with me for a few minutes about four things. I'll give you them and I'll go back and preach them. Number one, I want you to see the characters that are involved. The characters that are involved. And then I want you to see the contention that was invoked. The contention that was invoked. Then number three, I want you to see the cause that is investigated. We're going to investigate the cause. I believe it's very wise that we find the cause of the contention if we want to prevent it in our own lives. So we're going to investigate the cause. And then I love this because the Bible does tell us there was a cure that was initiated. There was a cure that was initiated. So let's look at the characters involved. Look in verse number 36. And some days after Paul said unto Barnabas, Paul said unto Barnabas, Who's this man Paul? Well, of course, if you know your Bible, you know that the Apostle Paul was the apostle to the Gentiles. He was that man that God saved on the road to Damascus in a miraculous way. And he was a man that God had definite purposes for. Let me read what God said to Ananias in Acts chapter 9 and verse 15. But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way, for he, speaking of Saul, Is a chosen vessel unto me to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel. This wasn't just some Johnny Cumbe lately. This was a man that God had plans for. This was a man that God had an intention for. God said, This man's going to bear my name. He's not only going to bear my name to individuals, but he's going to bear my name to a nation of peoples. He's going to bear my name to the G And Taos And it was predominantly the Apostle Paul that carried the gospel message to the Gentile world. Thank God he listened to the Holy Spirit and went west with the gospel. Because you and I are beneficiaries of what he did way back then, when instead of going east like he intended, God said, No, I want you to go west, and the gospel came our way. But there's another man involved here, and his name is Barnabas. Barnabas has got a name. In fact, Barnabas was saved before Paul. In fact, Barnabas was in Christ in the early church. He was in that early group of believers in Jerusalem. And according to Acts chapter number 4, Barnabas had a special name. It says that at first, and Joseph, that was his name, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas. Which is being interpreted the son of Consolation, a Levite, and of the country of Cyprus, having land, sold it and brought the money and laid it at the apostle's feet Now, all through the ministry of Barnabas, you see Barnabas always helping somebody. Do you know who the first one that gave him a chance, that gave Saul a chance after he got saved? It was Barnabas. It was Barnabas that stood up for him. The church said, No, wait a minute. This man's a persecutor. This man kills Christians. We heard about him. Barnabas said, I'm going to go get him and bring him up here and show everybody that he's safe. Thank God for people like that. Thank God for people that got a heart for other people, that understand that God can change a man's heart, he can change a man's life. And they'll stand up for him and say, hey, this individual, God's done something for him. You may not believe it, but God has done something in their heart. That's the kind of man he was You know, I think we would all agree. Well, let's read the scripture. Go back to Acts chapter 13. In Acts chapter 13, I want you to see something about these two men. And this is God's evaluation of them. Now there were in the church that was at Antioch certain prophets and teachers. As Barnabas, Simeon, that was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, Manian, which had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul. As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them. Can I say something here? Here's the cream of the crop. The Holy Ghost looked in that church, and the Spirit of God said, You and you, I want you men to go. And the first missionary sent out of this assembly in Antioch. With Saul and Barnabas. And verse 3 says, and when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. So I think the scripture's estimation of these men is quite clear that these were spiritually mature servants of the Lord. We're not talking about novice Christians. We're talking about men who were seasoned by the spiritual battles they had endured. They were men who were seasoned by the conflicts that they had engaged in. These were men who knew something about the power of God. That first missionary journey was a demonstration of God's power everywhere they went. They preached the gospel, people got converted, churches were started. And God used them in a powerful way. I'm just trying to say these are spiritually minded men. That's the characters involved. Now you say, preacher, spiritually minded men can't act like that. You better think again Spiritually minded men are capable of anything a man is capable of because they live in a vessel of clay. We have the same old flesh. There's not one above another. There's not one better than another. I don't care if you've been saved 150 years, you still have flesh that's capable of flesh things. And so we see the characters involved. Don't forget it. Because we move now to the contention that was invoked. Now the characters involved are Paul and Barnabas. Now I could understand it if it was some new convert. It would make it easier for me to get it. You know, don't it marvel? You see little children. You don't think much about children having falling outs as children. That's what they do. Is that not what they do? You put two kids in the nursery, you precious ladies that keep that nursery. You've been in there, you know what? One says, that's my toy, and it ain't his toy, it's the church's toy. But he says, that's my toy And the other one says, No, it's my toy, and the next thing you know, you gotta fight. And they're rolling around on the ground over uh over a toy that don't beling to belong to neither of them, but they think it's theirs Now you expect that, do you not? I mean you you're not shocked by that. But what I see here in the scripture is not two children or spiritual infants but mature disciples of the Lord Jesus, one being an apostle, and Barnabas was obviously a prophet, because he was a part of that number that was listed in Antioch And so both men held high station, if you will, or position, and yet here they are contentious with one another. I want you to see this contention was invoked over a person. Look what the Bible says here, beginning in verse number 37, Barnabas. determined to take with them John, whose surname was Mark. But Paul thought not good to take him with them, who departed from them from Pamphylia, and went uh went not with them to the work. Now, who's this person that caused so much trouble? Well, this man named John Mark. He was the problem. Barnabas wanted to take him. By the way, did you know that John Mark is believed to be the cousin of Barnabas. He was a relative. Sometimes there's a deeper connection than we often fail to see. But here, for whatever reason, Barnabas said, I'm taking him, and Paul said, No, I don't think that's a good idea. He said he went not with us to the work. Now what do we know about b about this man, John Mark? Well flip back to Acts thirteen And in Acts chapter number 13, I want you to see this. Because it said, Now when Paul and his company loosed from Paphios. They came to Perga and Pamphilia, and John, departing from them, returned to Jerusalem. Now remember, John Mark had been on this journey. He had went with them when they started out. But now he turned and went home. Now I've heard some fanciful preaching on this. Why John Mark went home. Most of it was just hot air. I'll be honest, most of it's just hot air. Because number one, we don't really know why he went home. I heard a man elaborate, oh, he missed his mother. How do you know that? I mean, he might have had a rotten mother that he didn't miss at all. He didn't want to see her. You don't know that. You're reading into that. One fellow preached a whole message on how he missed all the things he could get in America. And that man wasn't even American. Couldn't get Pepsi, couldn't get this, couldn't get that. Oh, how silly. How silly. All we know is John Mark went home. Did John Mark get sick? Could have. You know, uh John Mark left shortly after a great battle with the devil. You read there in chapter 13, boy, the devil fought them and hell resisted them. And it could be that he was suffering from the conflict that he had been engaged in. It's awful easy to sit in the armchair of the local church and say, those missionaries need to stop coming home. When we've never left the comforts of our home and lived in the environments those men and women live in, and understand very fully the sacrifices that are made. Oh, but you say I've been on missions trips Wait until the cords cut and mission's trip, nothing, it's home. It's home. You're not going to get on a plane in twenty days and fly home You're there. And it's there. And that's where you're going to be. As far as you know, that's where you're going to be buried. And John Mark, listen, we ought to be careful about our estimation of John Mark But he was a source of contention. Paul said, I don't think it's a good idea. Barnabas said, I'm determined, and they got in a great big fight. Now here's the problem. I want you to see the problem. You'll see these two words, and I'm going to say more about them later, but I want you to see this. It says that back in our text in Acts chapter number 15, that Barnabas determined. Do you know that word means resolved? He said he resolved. He had his mind made up And Paul, it says, thought not good. And this disagreement got so bad, look in verse 39. And the contention was so sharp between them. Do you know that four-word phrase in English is just one word in the Greek language? And it literally means they got so irritated they just tore apart. It means to tear asunder. They were so irritated with each other, they just pulled apart. Said no more. These men didn't leave on good terms. They didn't leave on good grounds. They parted asunder. So we see the contention was invoked over this man named John Martin. Now here's really my message, the last part. I want to investigate the cause. Why did this happen? Here are two spiritually mature men, here are two men that are full of uh the Spirit of God up until this point. And men that have been used of God in his service, why did they get to the place that they could not agree over something so strongly that they rip apart and they Tear apart and go in a different direction. Can I suggest three things? Number one, the absence of prayer Does it not strike you how different this second missionary journey started than the first one? Do you realize what it says up here in verse number thirty-six? And some days after Paul said unto Barnabas, let us go again and visit our brethren in every city where we preach the word of the Lord and see how they do It's almost a casual off-the-hand mark remark. Let's just go see the brethren. Let's go make another missionary journey Do you remember what happened back in Acts 13 when they went out the first time? The Bible says they were fasting and praying before the Lord. And they were ministering to the Lord. And verse number two had fasted, and the Holy Ghost said, See the difference? The first missionary journey started in an atmosphere of prayer. The second missionary journey started in an atmosphere of casual conversation. Let's just go back. Let's just go back and see how the brethren do. And furthermore, when the contention begins, I don't see any place where they stop and say, now let's pray and see who should go. Let's just stop now and and and consider that praying. How many of you know praying is the most reasonable thing we can do? I believe there'd be a whole lot less contention if there was a whole lot more crying out to God In fact, praying people are about the most agreeable, personable, easy to work with people you know. You show me someone that's continually contentious, and I'll show you someone that don't pray a whole lot. But they didn't pray. Nowhere in this chapter do they pray. Do they never they we don't have recorded that they stopped and said, Now, Lord, do we take Mark or do we take Silas? Who is it that we take? Should we do this, Lord, or should we not? How many of you have ever gotten in a mess because you didn't pray about something? Am I the only dummy? Don't pray about it. I bought one car I didn't pray about, and I wish that thing was an albatross for ten years around my neck. One. I didn't pray about it. It was too good of a deal. It was it it just sounded so right. It was just everything I wanted. And so I I thought, you there's no need to pray about something like this. Just jump in both feet Well, I jumped in with both feet, and boy, I couldn't swim for years after that. I'm saying this, this contention was born because of the absence of prayer. There's a whole lot of things look differently when you pray about it. There's a whole lot of things that will listen, you want the steam took out of your engine, get on your knees and say, God, am I right? It may be the Holy Ghost will say, well, just hold on a minute. So there's the absence of prayer. Number two, I want you to see the unwillingness to yield. The unwillingness to yield. I've already mentioned this, but in verse 37, Barnabas determined. In other words, he resolved and he made up his mind and he said, it's going to be this way or no way. How many folks you know like that? Don't don't point or raise your hand. All right. My way or the highway. You know. If it ain't their way, they take their toys and run home. My best friend. I still talk to him. He's a uh God saved him, and he's just a dear friend to me. Lives back in Carolina, North Carolina. He and I were little. Son, we'd get in the awful brawls in the backyard. And he'd always bring something. He'd bring a little army gun or a Some sort of toy or we'd be playing with. And I don't know how many times he would gather up his stuff and say, I'm going home He was mad. I was mad and I said, go on home and get. I don't want you at my house. He'd leave, take his toys, and we'd be done. But you know something here, Barnabas was resolved to do something that we don't see any direction from God about. I'm just determined. You know it's good to be determined until you come to a place that you don't need to be determined. You see what he did is he refused to yield. Romans 12, 10. In fact, I think we all should read that. Romans chapter 12, verse 10. It's a principle of Scripture that needs to be re-enacted in our churches again Romans twelve, ten, be kindly, affectioned one to another with brotherly love. In honor preferring one another. You say, what does that mean? That means having enough sense to yield For the sake of the good of another. In honor preferring one another. Give it right away. You go down the highway, man. I see this on on especially on I-95. You're going down the highway. You ever seen somebody coming on and and neither party's willing to yield? You know what happens when you don't yield? When you should yield, you'll have a collision. And collisions are always costly. There's a lot of times in our lives that we just know it's my way. I'm going to have it my way, and we'll run the thing in the ditch. Because we won't yield. In honor preferring one another. Kindly affection. Barnabas said, I don't care how loving this may seem or sound, I don't care, my mind's made up John Mark is going whether Paul likes it or not. You ever hear that kind of talk? That's not Romans twelve ten language. Romans 12 10 languages, be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love. That means heavy on the affection, heavy on the kindness, heavy on the preference of the brethren, yielding the right of way. That's what he said. I think here we have very clearly an unwillingness to yield on Barnabas' part. He said, John marks going or else. I don't know how many good churches I've seen die because of that spirit. But, preacher, this is Marinath the Baptist Church. It's been here 70 years. It won't last seven months if God in heaven don't cause it to last. And one of the things that will kill an assembly is this unwillingness to yield. It's going to be my way. If you don't go along with me, I'm going to make life hard on you. How many of you know you can yield and not yield? Like that little boy that, you know, I there's a cartoon, I can't remember the name of it, but uh his mama made him go sit in the corner and he's sitting there and there's a little caption over his head, I may be sitting down on the inside, but I'm standing up on the out on I'm sitting down on the outside, but I'm standing up on the inside. He was yielding, but he wasn't yielding. He said, okay, I'm going to do what you want, but in my spirit I'm mad about it, and everybody's going to know it. They're all going to know it. Dare I say this? How many of you precious men know that I'm fine don't always mean I'm fine? All right, that's as far as I'm going. I got good sense and I gotta go home But we don't always, and by the way, for our dear wives' sake, dear these dear ladies, sometimes it's not always her that's I am fine. But the reality is, brother, sister, an unwillingness to yield always leads to conflict. Did here. He wouldn't give in. Barnum said, He's going. I'm resolved. I made up my mind. God help us now Can I say I believe the third thing that I see here as a cause is the presence of pride? Say, preacher, how can you say there's pride involved in this because of this verse right here? Let me get over here and read it. Proverbs 13, 10 says Only by pride cometh contention, but with the well-advised is wisdom. Only by pride. The Bible says it's only pride. It's pride that causes contention. Someone said, whose pride? Maybe both. Oftentimes it's your pride, or it's my pride, or it's both. And no doubt both were sort of involved here. I can see it from various angles. I can see that Barnabas could have reason to be proud. He was the elder. Barnab Barnabas had been saved long before Paul, and Barnabas had been in Christ and been in the church, and Barnabas had station and he had standing and But but and he could have been proud about that and said, look, Paul, you need to do it my way because I'm the elder of the bunch. And Paul could have said, Hold on a minute, I'm the apostle to the Gentiles God chose me to carry the gospel. And I'm just saying, whose ever pride it is, that's for God to discern, whose ever pride it is, pride causes contention. And anytime our old pride rears its ugly head, there's going to be conflict. Anytime it and listen, people say , what I hear somebody preaching today. Oh, it's Brother Trieber out in California. Brother Trieber said, uh he he said, you know, some people are so humble they're proud of it. And I was walking, I was on my walk, and I was trying to pray humble that don't you know and then the people laughed. It took me a minute to get what he was trying to say But uh, you know, you you and I can say, well, I'm not proud. I don't have an inch of proud of me, uh an ounce of proud in me. But the truth of the matter is, we're all proud to some degree Vance Abner said it's our birthday present from the devil. And we all got it the moment we were born. And so we see the presence of pride. So I believe as we investigate the cause of this conflict, it ought to make us aware of some things. The absence of prayer, the unwillingness to yield, the presence of pride. But can I show you one last thing over here in 2 Timothy? And I want us all to turn there because I think it's a portion of Scripture that we need to pay attention to. 2 Timothy chapter 4. We've looked at the characters involved, we've looked at the contention invoked. We've looked at the cause investigated. But now look at the cure that is initiated. Because after this Acts 15 incident, Paul and And uh, or or rather, Barnabas and John Mark pass off the scene of history to some degree. Barnabas is never mentioned again. I've heard fanciful preaching about that. He was in the wrong. He's out of the will of God. He wasn't mentioned anymore. There's a whole lot of people that was only mentioned once, but they did the will of God. They never were mentioned again. I don't believe that to be the case in Barnabas. I don't think because of this choice and this conflict and this contention that Barnabas went on to live a wasted life. But someone had to initiate the cure. Somebody had to fix the problem. They had to fix the conflict. And the Apostle Paul stands up and becomes the bigger man. In 2 Timothy chapter 4. Verse 11, look what the scripture says. Only Luke is with me. Take Mark. You say, who's that? That's John Mark. That's the man they thought about. That's the man that Paul says not good, take him. That's the man that Barnabas said, he's going or I'm not going. That's the man that that left them back there fr uh in Pamphylia and and said, I'm I'm going back to Jerusalem That's that same individual, John Mark, he said, take uh and this this man take Mark and bring him with thee. For he is profitable to me for the ministry. I want you to note something here. I want you to note Paul's evaluation. Paul said he's profitable. Hold on, Paul. You said it's not good to take him because he left. Can I just put it in plain language? Paul said, I don't want to be around a quitter. That's just the kind of man Paul was. Paul said, I don't want somebody like him to go with us. He left us once, we're not going to trust him again. You know what 2 Timothy is, don't you? It's Paul's last letter. People call it his swan song. It's the last thing he pinned before Nero took his head. We're talking about a man just We don't know how near death, but pretty close. We're talking about Paul, not the young fiery missionary, but the aged apostle. Who's got a few scars and seen a few things and walked through a few valleys? Maybe contemplated a time or two quitting himself. And a man that's been seasoned by the conflict, I don't think so much changed with John Mark as it did with the Apostle Paul. You say, well, what's the difference here? Why does he say don't take him? And now down the road a little bit he says bring him, he's profitable. I believe this with all my heart. Charity. Transformed his thinking. Paul's an older man. Oh, sure, John Mark grew. No doubt he he learned some things and served the Lord in different ways. But the greatest change that I view in this scripture is that Paul said he's profitable. I realize God can still do something with him. He wasn't ready to throw the baby out with the bathwater, so to speak. He wasn't ready to just run up the white flag and say, we're done. We're finished. John Mark, you go on back. You failed once. I'll never trust you again. No, no, no. He had learned some things that God is able to take vessels That are broken at best and do wonders in their lives. I believe Paul matured some. His evaluation changed. And then I want you to see this encouragement that he offered. Here's what he said: Bring him with thee. Timothy, when you come, you tell Mark, I want him to come with you. Do you know what that meant to that man? Here was a man who uh was full aware of the conflict. It appears he was willing to go. He was willing to go on this second journey. He was willing to get back in the fight. He was willing to get back in the battle. He was willing to engage and serve the Lord again. And then all of this fight. I wonder how he felt. When Paul said it's not a good idea. But I also wonder how he felt when Paul said, bring him with you. You go tell him I'm asking for him. Because I believe he's profitable to me and to the ministry. Again, I do not believe this was so much for Mark or John Mark as it was for the Apostle Paul. You know what it took for Paul to do this? Humility. It took a great deal of humbling for the great apostle Paul to say, you know something? I can use John. You tell him to come. That conflict had caused a great deal of division, unnecessarily, in a lot of lives. But it took True greatness. True greatness. To say, you know what? I'm going to swallow my pride. And I'm going to say, John, John, Mark. Come help us. I can use you. The Lord can use you. Contention always ends When someone involved takes the first step of humility , just diffuses it There's a proverb that my God has etched in my heart again and again It's Proverbs 20 and verse 3. Here's what it says. It's an honor for a man to cease from strife. It's an honor. It's an honor to that man, and it's an honor to everyone involved when someone says I'm through. Through fighting. Contention's over. Putting the gloves away I'm putting the old sharp words aside. I'm going to pick up the Romans 12, 10 Spirit, be kindly affectionate one to another with brotherly love, in honor, preferring one another. I'm going to put my rights and my pride. I'm going to lay all that down, and I'm just going to say this. You're profitable. Bring encouragement. Don't you know, old John Marks? I don't know how he was. You know, again, I'm trying I'm reading in, I understand, but but but bear with me for just a moment. Do you know how that might have lifted his head when he said, I believe God's got something for you to do? Dear Brother Osteen, I said hit I mentioned him this morning, but just something I'll share with you personal. I was really struggling in the ministry and and I'll tell you I'd gotten so low I wasn't even sure God had called me to preach. And I remember Brother Rosteen. I had to preach at a place and he was there, and I dreaded that. I dreaded that. I remember that old preacher coming up and he put his arm around me. He's uh uh well there are Acadians up there. What do we call them down here in Louisiana? Cajuns. He's Cajun. Him and his wife both. She spoke French. Uh very fluently. His his is very um he'll Billy French. Preacher Osteen put his arm around me. He said, Boy, God's got his hand on you. That's all he said. It was the encouragement I needed. He didn't know I was struggling. He didn't know that I was battling some things in my own heart. But listen, my friend, that encouragement from that seasoned man of God put fire in my soul And I'm saying to you, brother, sister, there's enough people trying to put fires out, trying to stamp that desire to serve God. Don't be involved in it. The last place you ought to be discouraged to do something for God is right here in the house of God. The last place you ought to be that that you ought to have that fire burning in your heart for at love for the Lord, it ought not to be in the Lord's house. Let me say this quite clearly. Some of these young believers get excited, leave them alone. Let me say it again, leave them alone. Just let them burn. They listen, they may have a lot to learn, and there may be a lot of things in their lives that that that God's got to straighten out. You just leave them alone. Well, I don't like that. Let God take care of it As long as they're speaking English and not acting fools, leave them alone. Leave them alone The devil's in the extinguishing business. Not the Lord. Not the Lord. I don't know that what Paul said to John Mark in the Acts 15 account didn't take a whole lot of time for him to get over. But the same man who caused the wound is the same man who brought the cure. He said, bring him along. Bring him along. Can you can you imagine that meeting? Paul knows his time is short. Paul knows what's about to happen. And in walks John Martin. I like to imagine that first thing he did was go over there and hug his neck. Said, I love you. God's got something for you. You better believe God had something for him. You ever read the Gospel of Mark? I believe we're talking about the same man. Now you may disagree, but God will straighten you out in heaven. God had something for the man. God's not finished. And can I say this? I don't care how miserably you fail. If you'll get right, God's not finished. God 's not through. Oh, preacher, I made a mess. I'll tell you this you've never made a mess so bad grace can't straighten a thing out and work wonders. God's grace can do listen, David and Bathsheba did something very foolish and very wicked and condemned in the Word of God And yet you look at that and here comes Solomon rising up like some beautiful flower in the midst of a filthy pond of scum. And here he comes and God says, Look, let me show you what I can do Let me show you what I can do with the message you make in life. God 's not through. If you'll get right with God, he's not through If you'll get your heart right with him, he's not finished. Listen, how many times have you been finished and God wasn't? I'm grateful for those times. I'm grateful for those times when I thought, God, I'm finished, and God says, You ain't even started. Just hold on. Well, the cause, or the excuse me, the cure was initiated. By the Apostle Paul. Can I close with this? What cure? Needs to be initiated by you. What cure? Maybe God the Holy Ghost has said, hey, that contention is not right. And oftentimes we say, yeah, but I was right in the matter, and maybe Paul was right in the matter. But there comes a place where whose right 's not important. Hey, how many of you have been married? I I know this is a question I've asked before, and there's a bunch of you, but how many of you have been married 40 years or longer? 40, at least 40? That's a bunch of you. You didn't st you haven't stayed married by making sure who's right Amen. That goes if you've been married four months. If you're concerned, you know, sometimes you've got to shut your mouth, and even though you may be right, you need to humble yourself for the sake of the relationship. Same goes in the church. Sometimes you've got to humble yourself and say, hey Listen, and and I'm not talking about compromise and all that. Don't go out here and distort my message. You know exactly what I'm talking about in matters uh that that we often get so b uh torn up about It don't matter who's right for the sake of unity and the relationship, for the working of the Spirit of God. The Holy Ghost is nowhere around contention. He doesn't bless it. He doesn't honor it. But I'll tell you what we do see him honoring. Behold, how good and pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. That Old Testament picture of that oil running down Aaron's head and over his beard and down his garments Is an out a demonstration of the pleasure of God with unity among his people. God's so pleased with it. He said the Holy Ghost is all over that. He honors that. He blesses that. He works in that. He moves in that atmosphere. And I'm going to tell you something. I don't want to be the reason God the Holy Ghost is grieved. There's too much at stake. You understand there's people that sit on these pews every week lost and on their way to hell? And it's going to take God to save them. It's going to take God to save them. And if the Holy Ghost is grieved, you can just forget about them getting under conviction and being converted. There are people there listen there's potential. You know what blessed my heart this morning? See all these young people in this altar There may be some folks are hard-hearted and they'll never bow a knee or shed a tear, but God says, I'll step over you and use them children, and God may raise up a church of these young people that He'll set on fire and turn this community upside down. Because they got tender hearts. And they're letting God do something on them. Oh friend, that's there's potential. You don't know who's sitting in this church. You don't know what God's doing in some young heart's life as he's grooming and growing them and preparing them for his glory. Oh, there's potential. I don't want to be the one that causes the Holy Ghost to back off So that these young ones don't get what they need to be what God wants them to be. I don't want to be the one that gets I don't want to stand before God with that on my conscience or on my heart and on my record. I don't want to be the one that causes the Spirit of God to pull away. Listen, all over this land are churches, there are buildings, I should say. And they've got steeples and stained glass and pews, and they've got people coming and going, but Ichabods wrote over them. The Spirit of God's nowhere in sight. Oh, they're going through the motion, and some of them are fundamental. Let me say that again. Some of them are fundamental. They believe the Bible. Listen, they cross their T's and dot their I's and do all the things you're supposed to do, but they're dead. They're dead as last year's bird nest. There's no life there You know why the Holy Ghost has been run off a long time ago? He's been so grieved, he can't work. And you know what often is the cause? Contention. Contention. I could take you to this place. This is a sad city. And I could show you a place where two women got in an argument in the church, outside of the church, and brought it inside the church. They were neighbors. One had chickens, the other raised flowers. And if you know anything about chickens and flowers, all those rotten things want to do is dig and peck and scratch and tear up. And she had a one of her roosters get loose, and he got in her flower bed and tore up some prized flower, and she took a broom and threw it at that rooster and broke his net and killed him. And them two women got into it and they divided that church. You had the chicken side, you had the flour side. Isn't that sad? I'm not talking about some liberal dead church. I'm talking about a living fundamental Baptist church where the gospel was preached and people were getting saved. Lives are being changed. Missionaries sent out that thing. And here they are. And you know what? It didn't take but about one decade. And that church is dead. They shut the building, they shut it down, locked it up, eventually sold it, disbanded, and that community is one, and I can take you through it, that community is one of the most Ungodly places in this country. And if there's ever a city that needed a lot, it was that place. And instead of shining their light, they were sharpening their swords and using them on each other. I'm going to tell you something. Elkton, Maryland needs Marinath Baptist Church. Elkin, Maryland needs a little light shining in this dark old place. This part of the world needs the gospel going out consistently and faithfully and continually and in the demonstration and power of the Holy Ghost of God. The only hope for this community is the Lord Jesus. And my friend, it needs this church. We need to be shining our light. Instead of sitting back and sharpening our swords, so we can use them on each other. May the Lord help us. I want us to stand, please