To take your Bibles please and go to the Gospel of Mark chapter number two. Mark chapter number two, we'll read the first twelve verses. Of Mark chapter number two. When you find your place, would you stand with me, please? We'll honor the reading of God's Word together. Mark chapter number two. I want you to notice what verse number one says. Verse number one is our text verse. Mark chapter number two and verse number one, the Bible says, and again he entered into Capernaum after some days. And it was noised that he was in the house. Straightway many were gathered together. Insomuch that there was no room to receive them. No, not so much as about the door. And he preached the word unto them. And they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which was born of four. And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press, they uncovered the roof where he was. And when they had broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay. When Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. But there were certain of the scribes sitting there and reasoning in their hearts, why doth this man thus speak blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God only? And immediately, when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? Whether is it easier to say to the sick of the palsy, thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise and take up thy bed and walk? But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins. He saith of the sick of the palsy. I say unto thee, Arise and take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house. And immediately he arose. took up the bed and went forth before them all, insomuch that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw it on this fashion. What a day that was. In that little place called Capernaum, where they witnessed the impossible become possible. But I want to call your attention to verse number one again, that it was noised that he was in the house. Father, would you help us now from thy word? And Lord, would you undertake for the deep need of every heart? Father, in these few moments, separate us from the distractions of life and all the other cares And things, Lord, that would keep us from hearing thy still small voice. Lord, quiet in our hearts before thee. Hide us behind the cross. Help us to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. Have your way in our midst, and we'll be careful to bow our unworthy heads. Give you all the glory. For we ask these things in Jesus' name, and God's people said Amen. You can be seated. Thank you for standing. And can I remind you that everything we read about the miraculous The never saw it on this fashion sort of stuff was all simply because Jesus was in the house. Jesus was there. This morning I want to speak on that subject, Jesus in the house, when Jesus is in the house. And I don't think anything is needed quite so badly as the manifest presence of the Lord in our gathering. Now I know someone immediately is going to say, but preacher, the Bible says In Hebrews chapter 13, that he hath said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. And I would say amen to that, because that is the promise of the Word of God. We have the promised presence of God. I'm not talking about that. I understand that from the moment a person is born again that the Spirit of God moves inside of you and abides, according to Jesus, with you forever. He said, when the Spirit of God has come, he will abide with you forever. The Spirit of truth, he's going to be with you. He's going to be in you And we cannot deny the fact. Whether I see him, sense him, whether I understand that or not, if I am a Christian, Christ is always with me For he lives within me by the person of the Spirit of God. But there are times, and there needed times, When the Lord is manifest. Now, I believe we have a picture of that in Matthew chapter 17, there on the Mount of Transfiguration. The Lord Jesus is present in body. He's present in person. He's there among his men. He's there among his people. And he calls those three men to go with him to the top of the mountain. Peter, James, and John. And the Bible says in Matthew 17, verse 2, that he was transfigured before them. And there was something very special that took place on that mountain. It was there that the deity of the Lord Jesus eclipsed his humanity. It was the oh he was there, he was there all along. He was God all along. He was God when he walked up the mountain, he was God at the foot of the mountain. He was God when he was born in the manger. I mean, he's just God. He's always God. But the reality is that they did not know They were in the presence of deity until the transfiguration. And then they didn't know what to do about the transfiguration because Peter said You know, it's good for us to be here. Let's just build three tabernacles and just hang out here all the time. And you'll remember that the the father spoke from heaven and said, This is my beloved son. in whom I'm well pleased. In other words, you forget about Elijah and Moses. You get your eyes on the Lord Jesus because he's the important one. He's the one we need to know. Now, remember something. Here is the promised presence. He's there. But here is the manifest presence when he shows himself, when he reveals himself. And you know, as you study your Bible, you begin to realize that the Lord Jesus wants to show himself to his people. In fact, we're taught when the Spirit of God would come, Jesus said, I will manifest myself to him. I will make myself known. Now, I'm not talking about something that is spooky or extra-biblical or even mystical for that matter, but I am talking about something that's very real. If the Lord Jesus is real, and he is , ought we not to know something of his nearness from time to time? Should there not be an enjoyment of his presence? You know when someone's near. Sometimes you'll you might see me sitting in my chair or standing here when I'm singing, and I'll jump because I feel like somebody's close. My son likes to do that. He walks right up behind me and just stands there until I sense him, and sometimes I sense him. And uh it spooks me because I'm not, you know, I'm not expecting that And you know, uh because he's a person. I mean if there was nothing there, nothing would happen. And what I'm trying to say is that the Lord Jesus is very real. He's not a figment of our imagination. He's not a fairy tale. He's not something we've made up. He's the Lord of glory. And he lives in us. And my friend, there will be times that he will make himself known. Nothing is needed so greatly in this hour as the manifest presence of the Lord among his people. We need to be able to gather and go to church and then go home and say, God was there. Now sometimes we do that by faith. Sometimes we do that by faith. Sometimes we gather here, we sing our hymns, we study the scripture, we praise the Lord, and we pray, and then we go home, and there's there may not be the sense of the presence of God. There may not be the tenderness of heart, and there could be a thousand reasons behind that. But there ought to be times that God's people meet and know that the Lord is among us. And sense the manifest presence of God. You know, one of the things that scares me is Revelation chapter 3, and the Laodicean church is described as a place Remember uh it's verse number twenty. Behold, I stand at the door and I don't know about you, but I don't ever want him not to be welcome here. You know why you knock? Because it's not your home. You you go home this evening or or this afternoon. Hopefully we get home before this evening. But we'll go home this afternoon, and when you go home, you won't knock on your own door. You'll just walk right in. You'll walk right in. Joseph and Sarah have been visiting and yesterday Sarah just walked right in. And I'm glad for that. That's her home. When you're home, you don't knock. You're not a stranger. But here's the Lord Jesus and you know what he's doing? He's He's not welcome there Here is the people that have forgotten that the presence of the by the way, you know what separates us from any other group or gathering? That makes you different than the Moose Club or the Goose Club or whatever kind of club. The only thing that makes us different is the presence of the Lord Jesus among his people. That's critical. Oh, you can have church and not have church. You can gather as a group of people and not meet with God. You can have an assembly of individuals and a sign and a choir and songs and a Bible. You can have all of that and not have God. And my friend, you have nothing. It's his presence that makes all the difference in the world. This church in Laodicea, which is the predominant church of the last days, and I'll have to say this, it is the predominant church of this day. that is rich and creased with goods and has need of nothing, a church that is is self-satisfied, a church that is content, and a church that is consumed by itself. It's wrapped up in itself. Yet the presence of the Lord is something that we need. I want to say to you that the Lord Jesus must be welcomed. You ever been anywhere you weren't welcomed? I've been in a place or two like that. And you sense it pretty quick, don't you? But the presence of the Lord, is he welcomed? I pray that we're a church that welcomes everyone. I don't ever want anybody to walk into this building and feel unwelcomed. I don't care who they are or where they're from or what they've done. They ought to be welcomed in the house of God. They ought to be a welcome in the church. But I'm more interested in the Lord Jesus being welcome. I want him to feel home. I want him to this is this we're his people And the place that our Lord should be most welcomed is among his people. I promise you, my friend, there are churches, if the Lord Jesus walked in, he would not be welcomed. Plain and simple. I believe the second thing about his presence is it should be wanted. We should want his presence. Lord, we want you here. We want you here. We want you here above everything else, Lord. We want you because listen again, it is his presence that makes all the difference in the world. Oh, we can sing hymns without him. And we can sing hymns about him. But if we're not singing to him as we're among him, oh what a difference it makes You ought to be wanted. Do you want God to be in this assembly? I'm afraid a lot of times that there's a uh a compromise that's made And uh we would rather have our sin than we would have our Savior. Because there are things that he won't hang around. There are there there are things that that he don't want to be a part of. And my friend, listen, i anything that grieves him ought to grieve us. To the point of saying, I'll take you over that. I'll take you over that. All of you that are married know something about making compromise for the presence of the person in your life. Uh now please don't think ill of me, but I could care less about cats. I do not like cats. Now you pray for me. I'm not as spiritual as some of you that love them. But my view of a cat is it's a snake with fur. And so if you love them, the Lord bless you. But you know I remember the first time I went to see my she was my girlfriend, not my wife, would become my wife. And the first thing I saw, half a dozen cats running around. I I really had to scratch my head about this. This might be a deal breaker. You know But uh there are things that you tolerate for the person that you love. We first got married, you know what we did? Yeah, we had to go get a cat And it'd have been alright if it'd been just a plain old barn cat that lived outside, but she wanted one of these fancy-looking cats that stayed in the house You know, one that served no purpose. He didn't catch mice. He he I mean he did nothing but lay on the furniture. And and you know, look like, hey buddy, serve me. This is my house, not yours Well , you know what I'm trying to say? I'm trying to say we ought to love the Lord enough. There's a lot of things. That are non-essential compared to the presence of the Lord Jesus. I want him. He's got to be wanted. And then let me say this: he must be worshipped He must be worshipped. Look, a gathering such as this is not just a gathering of rote and routine. It's not just a gathering of rituals. It's a gathering of worship. We're here to worship the living Lord Jesus Christ. We sing our songs. We're singing to Him. We pray. We're talking to Him. We bow our heads before him. We adore in our hearts him. It's all about the Lord Jesus. He's to be worshipped. It's the purpose of the gathering of God's people. Well, it was noised here in Capernaum that Jesus was in the house It was noise, and that word means it was spread, rumored, talked about. It was the the word of the on the street It was what everybody was consumed with. Hey, Jesus is down there in that house. And when Jesus is in the house, it makes a difference. I want to show you four things, five things rather, about when Jesus is in the house. Number one, it's noticed. It's noticed. Look in verse 1. It was noticed that he was in the house. It was the, please get this, it was the focal point of that moment. Jesus was there. Someone said a fire announces itself. You don't need to take an ad out in the paper and say, hey, there's a fire burning over here. That fire announces itself, does it not? And so the Lord Jesus, I believe that we are living in a day where you see so much promotion and publicity by by churches because Jesus isn't present. You've got to have a cheap substitute when he's not there. You've got to do something to make up the difference, and a lot of times it's just mere man-made promotion that says, hey, we got something. Listen, you let the Lord Jesus be welcomed and wanted and worshiped in this place, and that will announce itself like fire. When our Lord comes down, we think about revival, been praying about revival, and it's nothing more than the manifestation of the presence of God among his people in such a real way that people know he's there. He's there. They say in Wells that they would often gather by the thousands. And nobody announced a meeting. They would just gather. They would just gather on a on the uh uh in a in an assembly, a building, a church, or they would gather on the street corner somewhere. Uh video was watching last night, I believe it was Balamina, Northern Ireland, and they gathered on the green, some six thousand, and the population of town was only five. And they gathered by the thousands, and they all came together. You know why? God was there. God was there I believe the answer to dying churches is somehow or another, get right and get God there. Get where the Lord you know the Lord is present and walking and working among us. That makes all the difference in the world. You can't remain a graveyard or a cemetery when the Lord Jesus is near. Let him walk through those dry bones and they'll all start coming together and coming alive. So we see it was the focal point of the moment. He was there. It was noticed. Number two, it was a necessity. And I want you to see the necessity in verse number two. It says, straightway many were gathered together. They came because he was there. Insomuch that there was no room to receive them. No, not so much as about the door. And he preached the word unto them. Do you see the necessity? This is not the only the we see the focal point of the moment was Jesus, but the focal point of his ministry was to preach the word. Now remember, this is Jesus. He could have done anything. Jesus is there. I mean, he could have raised the dead. He could have levitated off of the floor. He could have made angels appear. He could have fed them all with manna from heaven. He could have done all sorts of wonderful things because he's Jesus. Don't miss this. He chose to preach the word. He chose to preach the word. Now I don't know what kind of preaching Jesus did. You know, again, I just marvel each each year. This one may be more than most because we had so many different preachers, but how how God uses each one in a different way. And how each one is different, their personalities are different, their delivery is different, and all of that. And by the way, look, all of the uh the preaching is not about delivery, and it's not about uh all of the externals We were talking the other day and uh a preacher was talking about how people mimic other people. Brother Neil, Gary Neal and I were talking about this, and some who were old enough may remember the old preacher R. G. Lee. R. G. Lee was an eloquent speaker. He was a a man of God there in Tennessee that God used in a powerful way. And he just had his oddities like, you know. Let's be honest. Most preachers are just weird in some way, you know. If you hadn't found out their weirdness, you just don't know them well enough. Some are just weird. Well, Brother Lee always wore these these bright white suits. He wore a white suit. And somehow in the course of his conversation he would talk about how that he ate onion sandwiches. You imagine? Isn't that nasty? Ate onion sandwiches. And they said when when all of that got out that all the young preachers were looking for white soups and onion sandwiches because they thought that's what made a preacher It's not the external. It's not the external. It's not the delivery style. I remember when Joe Arthur preached the first time in my home church, there were three rows of young preachers there in that service. And after it was all over, our pastor came down and talked directly to all of us sitting on the pew. He said, don't try to be like him. Because if you try to be like him, you'll stop being you and you'll grieve God and God can't use you. Because God only made one Joe Arthur and he broke the mold and threw it away. He's not gonna do it. He's not gonna make another. You know why? Because God made you you And what I'm trying to say is that the necessity here was not the theatrics, the necessity here was not the volume, the necessity was Jesus took the Word of God and he preached it. Now why is that important? I'll tell you why, because if you want to meet him, you'll meet him right here. I thank God for good music, but good music won't manifest Christ like the Bible. I thank God for the privilege to worship and praise the Lord, but worshiping and praising the Lord won't manifest Jesus like the Word of God. He said, search the scriptures. You know why we search the scriptures? Because they testify of him. It's on these pages we meet his person. You'll not find him anywhere else. You'll not find him in a magazine, you won't find him in a devotional book, you won't find him in a commentary, but you open your Bible and you'll find him on every page, sometimes on every line, every once in a while in every word There he is. We see the necessity of the preached word. Now, I grew up in a circle where sometimes they'd say things like this, man, we had such a good service, we didn't even preach. Can I confess some? As a pastor, I uh I there's been a time or two we've had a service. And especially in my younger years, I said, man, we had such a good service. People would testify. People would go to the altar. We'd stand up and sing hymns. And not one word would be preached. We'd pray and go home. And I'll tell you, when I read my Bible and started understanding some things, I realized I'm not going to waste an opportunity to preach the word. Now, not every sermon's got to be the same length. You know, I read the story of a a preacher out in the country, big snowstorm came and got to the church, and the only person there was one man. He sat on the front row, and that preacher gave him the full service. Man, he gave him the whole message. The old man was a farmer, and he came up to him afterwards, and he said, Preacher, thank you for the word, but I want to say something. He said if I go out in the pasture to feed my cows and only one shows up, I'm not going to give him a whole truckload. Amen. I mean don't you appreciate when you don't get the whole whole truckload? Sometimes you don't need the whole truckload. Uh we we need to be aware of some of these things. But we do need the word. We do need the word. God broth well, brother's in heaven now, but he preached up in the state of Maine, and that brother would preach two and a half hours one morning. We went up there for a camp meeting. He preached two hours and 45 minutes. And I said to him afterwards, I said, brother, I don't know hardly anybody spiritual enough to take that. Now if God's in it, it's a whole different story. But man, there there's a fine line, isn't there, between a long sermon and a hostage situation. And we were in a hostage situation. I told my wife, I said, I I can't ever come back here. I can't sit that long. And surely now, surely now, mercy. But but the reality, the reality is, my friend, i it again, it's not about the length and it's not about volume, it's not about theatric. We need the word of God And sometimes more is said by saying less, and sometimes there needs to be more said, but we never ought to gather without the proclamation of the Word of God, because it's God's word that makes him known to us. If I see him this morning, I'm going to see him right here. I'm going to see him right here. Let me say quickly, number three, we see the normal. Now here 's the focal point of ministry. What's normal? Well, verse 4, and when they could not come nigh unto him for the press, they uncovered the roof where he was. You say, Hold on, preacher, that's not normal. Well, it is normal when Jesus is in the house. It's normal when you realize that our whole purpose is to bring men to Christ. Let me say this. Ministry is often unconventional, but it's never unbiblical. It's often unconventional. It goes against the grain of what's normal. But it's never unbiblical. You see, there's a place to be unconventional. There's a place to be unconventional, to break the mold and say, hey. George Whitfield went to the fields and began to preach. Because the churches were so dead nothing could be done in them and half the preachers had turned him out of their pulpit because he preached you must be born again and those rascals weren't born again. And so they threw him out. And he went to the it was unconventional, but he wasn't unbiblical. Our Lord performed his Greatest ministry among the multitudes and fields and by seashores and on boats and in various places. It was unconventional, yes, but it was never unbiblical. Oftentimes when Jesus is in the house, unconventional ministry takes place. God does things that shake up the norm. I remember as a little boy, J. Harold Smith, preaching in my church, and he preached that great message, Sinners or God's Three Deadlines. And when he preached that message, I can still remember the service. I was young and and little and and wasn't keen on what was going on spiritually, but I remember at twelve o'clock and he's still preaching. 1230, he's still preaching. Quarter one, the invitation begins, and people are going up and getting saved, and we're still there. 2 o'clock, we're still there. 2. 30, we're still there. That's unconventional. And boy, when you're a little fellow and your belly's hungry, it's real unconventional. I'm thinking, what are we doing? We ever gonna go home? But God was moving. God was moving. Over a hundred of our church members were saved that morning. And it changed our church. It changed our church. I'm saying God often works in an unconventional manner, but please don't let the idea of being unconventional give you permission to be unbiblical. Because God never crosses his word. Now he'll cross your culture. And he'll cross your traditions And he'll cross up your habits. And he'll go against the grain on a whole lot of stuff in your life. But he'll never offend this. He'll never break this. He'll always honor his precious word. And so we see the normal was, well, it was unconventional. They tore the roof off. It wasn't normal to have people on your roof making a hole, let people in. You had a door. I mean, wouldn't it be a little different if we're sitting in here having church and there was so many people in here that you couldn't get in the door and we see Stuff starts flying out of the ceiling, and all of a sudden, whew, somebody drops through. That's unconventional. I mean, there'd be some of us here be thinking, what and what's going on? That's not unbiblical, but it's unconventional. And I'm I'm saying, listen, don't let the unconventional let understand this, that when Jesus shows up, normal ain't always normal. He makes a difference, doesn't he? Number four, quickly notice the naysayers. The naysayers The Bible says in verse 6, there were certain of the scribes sitting there and reasoning in their hearts, why doth this man thus speak blasphemous? Who can forgive sins but God only? You know, I often always thought if revival came, that all negativity would disappear But that's not what the Bible says. If if God's really working, everybody joins together. That's not true in the Bible. Listen, when when when he's in the house, the naysayers are not eliminated, but they're exposed. Remember what Jesus said? He taught a parable about the wheat and the tares. And he said, While men slept, the enemy sowed the tares, and the wheat came up among the tares, and the servants said, Should we go pull them up? And he said, let them alone. You let them be until the harvest. You know what that tells me? There's going to be tares among the wheat till Jesus comes. Now, you ought to it ought to put a word of caution in your mind because where do you fit in this scenario when the Lord shows up? Are you one of the naysayers that says Well, now it's never been done like that. I'd not I would not permit that. I don't want to see it like that. I'd I'm uncomfortable with that. That goes against what I'm used to That's what the scribes were doing. You know why? Because they weren't saved. They denied Jesus. They denied his deity. They said, who he can't forgive sin. He doesn't have the right or authority to do that. Hold on a minute. Yes, he does. He's the Son of God. And Jesus did what he did to show them that, yes, he had the authority to forgive sin. His presence doesn't eliminate the naysayers, but it sure does expose them. It's like turning the lights on in a house full of cockroaches. You'll get a glimpse of them for a minute. Until they find them a new corner to get in. And that's exactly what happened here, the naysayers. When Jesus is in the house. Don't think for a moment that that when the Lord shows up, everybody's thrilled. In fact, there are some that are threatened, and therefore they rise up. But aren't you glad they didn't stop Jesus? Jesus exposed them. He made it very clear he knew. Verse 8 says, And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? Now the indication is, and the the truth is here, they never said anything at this point. But he knew what they were thinking He knows everything, don't he? I'm glad he does. Glad he does. Let me say quickly number five. We've seen, number one, that it's noticed when Jesus is in the house. That's the focal point of the moment. He's there We see the necessity, the focal point of the Master was to preach the Word. We see the normal, and that is the focal point of ministry, and that is get people to the Lord Jesus. Unconventional or not, that's not the important thing, so long as it's not unbiblical. We see the naysayers, and that's the focal point of the mean. God doesn't eliminate the mean, he just exposes those rascals. But then fifth and finally we see the never seen. When Jesus is in the house, there's the never seen. Look at verse 12. And immediately he arose. Now this man was crippled. And he was so crippled that four men had to carry him. It's very possible he's paralyzed from his neck down. He was unable to, I mean, he was he was he was invalid. And these four men had to carry him, but now he he got up and he carried his bed. Yeah. Can you imagine that? He he had been carried in there by those four, and the indication is that that seems to be that's the way it always was. He had been carried his whole life. He had been used to this. This was customary for him. And now he leaves the house walking, carrying his own bed. And went forth before them all, insomuch that they were all amazed. Now don't sit here and be super spiritual If somebody came in here paralyzed from a neck down, and maybe they were pushed in in a wheelchair And the Lord Jesus, by the way, he's on one heel. He's the healer. Healing's not in the hands of men. And the Lord healed them, and they go walking out of here pushing their wheelchair. Wouldn't you say , Never been seen like that before? Wouldn't there be some sort of amazement in your heart? Insomuch it says that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw it on this fashion. See the focal point of the miracle? They glorified God. They didn't glorify the four men that carried him. They didn't glorify the home that was open to them. They glorified God who raised him up. That's the focal point of miracles. And listen, when the Lord does great things, the never seen, so to speak, we ought to give him the glory. By the way, it's just as big a miracle. When God drives up a thirst for liquor in a man's heart because he saves him and sets him free, that's a miracle. Don't tell me for a minute the gospel don't even reach your appetites, because according to the word of God, my friend, the Bible's very clear about the condemnation of alcohol. A man who's saved that still runs around sipping on alcohol needs to get sanctified and see that Jesus sets us free. Now I know some people don't like that. Every time I preach it, I either get an email, a phone call, or a angry confrontation. But I want to remind you that today that it it may be culturally accepted It may be accepted among Christians, but it goes against the word of God. There's hardly anything else damning and destroying more people than that demon liquor. in the day that we're living in. And I can't understand for the life of me how Christians can go around saying, well, it's okay in moderation. You want to eat rat poison in moderation? How about putting a little rat poison in your corn flakes? A whole it'll take a whole lot to kill you. I've had some around the chicken houses that a whole bunch wouldn't even kill. But the reality is, my friend, that that that it it just because you don't see the devastating effects immediately doesn't mean it's not doing its work. Oh, you beware, you beware of a cultural Christianity that winks and smiles at wickedness. You get in your Bibles and know what God says. And say, Lord, I'm not going to be content until you show me what you think about it and what you think about it. If it goes against the grain of society, who cares? As long as you're pleased and I know the truth The never seen. Man, it was never seen like this. You've never seen anything like this before. And you know when the Lord comes, you'll see things you've never seen before. Never seen before. The Lord will save people you never thought he could. That's what I long to see. Those kind of people you say, well, they'd never darken the door of a church. Isn't that something when they start darkening the door? I remember a young man, he told me years ago, he said, I'll never set foot in your church. He was raised in that church and he hated it, hated the people in it, and hated the God it represented. I'll never set foot in that church. I'll never. And he went on and on and on. And his mother, his father prayed for him, our church prayed for him. And God started working on him. And I remember when the never scene happened. He walked in the church And and I was tempted, and thankfully God kept my mouth shut. But I was tempted to say, I thought you weren't able to come in here And then that man that never was coming here got saved, and that never man who who never wanted to come here not only got saved, but he got baptized. He wanted to be a part of the church. He started to serve the Lord. Look, listen, God's able to do the never seen. But he's gotta be there. All the messages you preach ain't gonna change somebody's heart. But when the blessed Lord walks by and pecks on their door and deals with them, my friends, something will start happening. The never seen will suddenly all begin to appear. You start, hey God did that. You'll see broken homes start getting put back together. The God of heaven can do that. The God of heaven can take something nearly dead and make it live again. God can take warring parties and individuals. who who who wouldn't speak if they I I mean listen, if they were pressed to and yet all of a sudden God melted their hearts and they mend that thing and it's better and they get right with God and each other, you know what? That that's what happens when Jesus comes. And isn't it good when you see people that just sort of casually came to church all of a sudden get excited? And I mean listen, you couldn't find them uh, you know, with the C and I dog before, but all of a sudden They're there all the time. You know, that's the never-seen stuff. That's the never-seen. See, God, when the Lord, it's when the Lord comes, when He is in the house. Oh, what a difference it makes when Jesus comes. Now, friend, I know He's present. He's always present with His people. But what I'm praying for and what I believe we're learning here is that when he manifests his presence, it makes all the difference in the world. Oh Lord, come in this way. Lord, show yourself. Show yourself. All is vain. Remember the song, Brethren, we've met to worship and adore the Lord our God. All is vain unless the Spirit Of the Holy One come down. We need him. Need him here. Need him here. Brother Sister Slaughter going back to Mexico in a few days, they'll need him there. They'll need him there. He'll he he he he will be the one that will make the missionary labors successful by his definition. Need him there. Hey, when you when you go to work tomorrow, you'll need him there. You don't need him there. You go home, you're going to need him there. But oh, when we gather as God's people, to keep this from becoming just a mere ritual, we need him here. To keep this from becoming just orthodox death. We need the Lord. Is He welcome? Is he welcomed in your life? Is he welcomed in your heart? Is he wanted? Do you want him? Do you want him? He doesn't go around where he's not wanted. And is he worshipped? May the Lord search our hearts today. If you've gathered with us unsaved, you do not know Christ as your personal Savior. Can I say a brief word to you? You must be born again. Only Jesus can save you. You can join every church in the country, be baptized so many times the tadpoles know you, social security number. But you will not go to heaven Unless you've been to Jesus Christ by faith, the blood has washed your sin away and made a new creature out of you. You need to be saved, and you can be saved because Jesus died for you. He was buried and he rose again the third day. He paid your sin debt in full. There's nothing else to do but enter in by faith to the finished work of Calvary and rejoice in a full salvation that's graciously given from the good hand of God. Be saved, my friend. Be saved. Dear brother, sister, may God give us a deep hunger. Just for him. Just for him. I think I've probably been going to church my whole life. I don't think I know. I know I went nine months before I was born and then every day after. And I I thank God for that. I'm not For fifty years now, that has been my life. It's been my life. But that's not my life or my eternal life. Jesus is my life. He's the eternal. He gave me eternal life. He gives abundant life. We need him, church. We need him. Do you want him? As we close this meeting with the hymn, Rodel, you come ahead, please. Let's have tender hearts to the Spirit of God. He wants to help you. This isn't time to go to the restroom or slip over