Hymns and then ask you to sing another special. But thank you and thank God for the truth of that song. He does not throw the play away And I'm looking at, and you're looking at, clay that would have been thrown away a long time ago if he did, but I'm grateful he doesn't. Thank God for his mercy. I want you to look in Acts 16 real quick with me. Acts chapter number 16, and I want to read. Let's begin in verse number 16. We'll read down to verse number 25 Acts chapter 16. And I want you to think with me tonight about this thought. And the Lord help me, I'd like to preach on this subject when it's hard to sing. When it's hard to sing. And let's just be honest, if we uh can be tonight, it's just you and I hearing it. We're not trying to impress anybody, nor care do we do we care to do so But uh the reality is sometimes it's hard to sing. You may want to sing, but it's just kinda hard to sing. I'm not talking about losing your voice or having trouble that way. I'm talking about when things are such in your life and heart, it's just hard to sing. When your heart's been crushed and broken, and I mean it's just hard to sing. Look with me now at the scripture, Acts 16, 16. It came to pass As we went to prayer, a certain damsel possessed with the spirit of divination met us, which brought her masters much gain by soothsaying. The same followed Paul and us and cried, saying, These men are the servants of the Most High God, which show unto us the way of salvation. This she did many days. But Paul, being grieved, turned and said to the Spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And he came out the same hour. Now this isn't the message, but I want you to notice something about the workings of the devil. You see, the devil was saying something that was true, but he was subtly being wrong. Yes, these men were servants of the Most High God, but it wasn't the servants that was to be magnified, it was the Savior. And Paul detected immediately that this wasn't the spirit of God, this was the spirit of the devil, and he turned and rebuked it. Someone said, if this girl had followed some around the day, They would have given her a position and made her their PR person and put her on the road and said, You go and herald us loudly. But that's not what Paul did. He said to the de the demon that was in her, Come out And verse 19 said, when her master saw that the hope of their gains was gone, they caught Paul and Silas and drew them into the marketplace under the rulers. And brought them to the magistrates, saying, These men, being Jews, do exceedingly trouble our city and teach customs which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe being Romans. And the multitude rose up together against them, and the magistrates ran off their clothes and commanded to beat them And when they had laid many straps upon them, they cast them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely who having received such a charge thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in the stocks. And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God. And the prisoners heard them. I'm going to stop reading there because you see the event, you see what happened. Father, help us tonight, please, in these few moments we had together, to get help from thee. And Lord, what you do, we'll be careful to give you the glory, for we're looking to and trusting in thee, in Jesus' mighty name. And God's people said. Amen. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever read the Bible and put yourself in it? Have you ever read and and we're reading about some men here where Reading about two men, Paul and Silas, and these men have been uh dragged by the mob. We read here that this mob grabbed them. Why don't you think about it? Put yourself in their shoes Here's a mob of people, and I don't think they were gingerly handling these two men. I mean, they were trying to tear them apart. I they they're ready to kill them themselves. They they they're under Roman law, and so they know better than to do that for fear of their own lives, but I'll tell you something, they're going to rough them up before they get them there And so this angry mob has got these two men, and they're tearing at them, and then they take them and they charge them and they beat them. Look what the Bible says: they beat them with many stripes. Now, the Jews had a law that you could only be beaten 39 times. There was a limit that they observed so that you weren't beat to death. We're not talking about Jews, we're talking about Romans. We're talking about cruel people. And when the Bible says they beat them with many stripes, these men could have been beaten hundreds of times. These men, their backs were bloodied and bruised, they're being beaten. And then the Bible says they take them, put them in the inner prison, and they put their feet fast in stocks. Now, if I understand correctly what they did in those days, they made the prisoner's body position as uncomfortable as possible. And so these men are already sore from the mob pulling and jerking and beating, and they're already bruised and battered from this beating that they've gotten. And now their bodies are put in such a position with their feet in the stocks that they can't find any relief or get any comfort. They are suffering. Now, if you think for a minute it wasn't hard to sing, you need to give your head a shake. One thing we often do is that we spiritualize things in the Bible and forget the reality these men had flesh and blood like you. And so these men were hurting. These men were trying maybe perhaps to figure out what's going on. These men were suffering. Their body was in pain. How many of you know it's hard to be spiritually up when your old body's beat down? When your body is physically suffering. And these men were physically suffering. But I want to say this. They sang anyhow. They decided to sing. And I want you to know it was probably hard for them to sing. It was difficult for them to strike note and begin to sing praises unto God. Not that praising God is difficult. But they're flesh and blood human beings like you and me. And sometimes life leaves you in a position when it's just hard to sing. I want you to think about it. Would you feel like singing? I jokingly say this, I'm not sure they're Baptist. I'm not sure they're Baptists because most Baptists I know couldn't go through all that and still sing. But they sang. So how'd they do it? Do you ever read the Bible and say, I want to do that too, but I don't know how. Lord, show me how. I want to know how to do that. When it's hard to sing, when it seems like you've got no no real reason to strike a note to sing, when it seems like that there's there's something in your life or heart or family or body or whatever the situation may be that's just just muted you or silenced you and it's taken the song away. How do you sing when it's hard to sing Can I say this? Number one, remember to worship. You and I need to remember to worship. Do you notice what the Bible says here in verse 16? It came to pass as we went to prayer. This was a scheduled hour. This was a time that they were going, and by the way, the Bible says on down in verse 25 of our text that at midnight Paul and Silas prayed. Now the word that's used there for prayed is the word that means to offer up or order our prayers as an act of worship. These men were on their way to the hour of prayer, so to speak. They were on their way to worship the Lord, and perhaps it was a uh going to be a meeting with other saints or just themselves. But they were going to observe something that they did all the time. It was a course and custom of their life. They would go and they would pray and worship God. And that's what they were going to do. And then all of a sudden they get interrupted in all of this melee, and once they get a few moments alone, they go right back to what they intended to do. They said, we're going to worship. There's a lot of stuff that may have kept us. Maybe it kept them from other believers, and it kept them from their their normal operation or their normal order of worship But they said, we don't care. We're going to worship. We're going to worship right here in prison. We're going to worship in these stocks. We're going to worship with our bloody beaten backs. We're going to worship regardless of the circumstance. And you know what happens when you begin to pray and worship God? It'll soon give way to song. These men, these men remembered to worship. And boy, when it's hard to sing, you and I need to remember to worship God. We need to remember that worship. Have you ever done a study you ought to do a study in the Bible of all of the places people worshipped? Look at the men. And I'm thinking of Jacob. As Jacob sat on the side of his deathbed, bowed his head, and worshiped God. He's getting ready to leave this world. He knows he's dying. He's at the very last moments of life, and he bows his head. with what energy he's got left and he worships the God of heaven. What a way to go. Job got news, everything's gone. Family 's gone. His wealth is gone. Job's gotten the worst news that a man could get in the course of a day, and it's come one after the other after the other after the other And Job got on his face before God, and what did he do? He worshiped. He worshiped Church, you know what? I think we, and by the way, worship is not so much about where you are physically, but what's going on in your heart spiritually. Oh preacher, I I can't worship unless I'm sitting on a padded pew in a church house somewhere. Well, you're missing worship. There's a whole lot of worship that can go on in other places. In fact, worship can take place anywhere in any circumstance that you choose to direct your heart heavenward to adore the God of heaven. These men chose right in the middle of this mess, right in the middle of the beating, right in the middle of the suffering, right in the middle of the heartache, they said, you know what, we might as well just worship. And they prayed and sang praises unto God. So let me say tonight, if you will find it hard to sing. You get in a place where you find it hard. You say, Preacher, I didn't find it quite hard to sing. And quite honestly, listening to many of you tonight, you didn't find it hard to sing. You were singing very well. Someone said that singing is a good thermometer of a church, and I believe it is. I've been in places where nobody sings, they just mumble. And uh it wasn't because of my hearing, it was because nobody was singing. And they just mumble. But when you sing with joy and you sing with effort and you sing with some excitement, it it makes a di it says something is going on in here. And you're giving praise to God. You don't have to sing well to sing well. You understand? You don't have to sing well. You say, but I can't carry it. Listen. So you just join in with him, amen. But when you find it hard to sing, pause and remember to worship. Billy Kelly, I've told you this before, but Brother Kelly, evangelist Billy Kelly, found himself in a situation, his wife was diagnosed with cancer, and it was a very serious situation, and it didn't look good as far as she was concerned. And Brother Kelly said he got down, and he got so down that he couldn't pray, he got so down that he couldn't read his Bible. And I know there's some probably super spiritual persons saying, Well, I've never been there. Well, you've just never been there The reality is you can get there. Anybody here can get there. You can get to the place where you can't read your Bible, where you can't pray And uh man, he just said he moped around for several days. And finally he said he was going to go down into this thicket and pray. And he went down there and he got on his knees and he said he still couldn't pray. And so he decided he would just begin to thank God. He said, I don't know what to say to God other than just thank him. And he thought for a minute and he said, I couldn't hardly think of anything to thank God for. And he said I just kind of opened one eye. And I looked up and there's a blue jay and he said, Thank you God for that blue jay. And then he said he looked over here and he said, Lord, thank you for that pine tree Then he said, Lord, I want to thank you for this laurel bush that I'm bowed before. And then he just started thanking God for doing it. And before long, he was thanking God for saving him and thanking God for the Lord Jesus. And before you know it, he said the upper end of heaven broke out and poured down in his soul. And he said he listen, before he knew what he is doing, he is shaking hands with bushes and High five in the blue jays and praising God for all that the Lord had shown him. Wife is still sick. Cancer's still there. But you know what? Worship will change you. Worship will change you. And by the way, worship is something That you and I exercise in our hearts towards God that's on a very personal level. I can think of the dear brother of my home church, brother Jerry Payne, and I've watched him worship God and never heard him say a thing. Brother Jerry, when he just got blessed, he'd kind of just gaze off, and you know he wasn't looking at anything in this world, and he'd get this great big old smile. You know what he was doing? He was worshiping the Lord. Now, what's funny to me is he sat right next to a man, and that dear brother was as wild as a kangaroo when he worshiped God. And when Brother David got blessed, I mean he's as apt to jump ten pews and run. It'd scare some of you and offend probably another rest of you. But the reality is he just loving on God. But I'll tell you what, two different men , two different circumstances. Brother David was a drunken, lived under a bridge for ten more years of his life. And when God saved him, he gave him his family back, gave him his health back. Gave him sanity back and just so changed his life he never got over it and the enthusiasm never died And what I'm trying to say is this, is that when we find it hard to sing, let's remember to worship God Number two, let me say this. I believe we also need to remember that he's still worthy. Look at verse twenty-five. At midnight, Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God. Now look, things weren't well for them, but nothing had changed with him. Things were not well with them, but nothing had changed with him. He was still God. He was still worthy of their praise. Oh, I know their backs are hurting, their bodies are bruised, they're losing blood, they've been beaten and mishandled, and their hearts are probably broken over the treatment they're wanting to preach the gospel and win people to Jesus Christ. But they've been treated horribly, and yet they remember that God 's still worthy, regardless of what happens to me, regardless of what's going on around me, regardless of what comes my way, God still is worthy of praise. You know what that helps you do? It helps you remember it ain't about you. It's all about him. I again urge you to look at the praise that was given to the Lord in the Bible. Every time you study things about praise, look at David praising God. Look at King David as he praised God through the varied circumstances of his life. Some of the most beautiful hymns or psalms that are written in the Word of God were written in the darkest times of his life. When he's on the run from Saul, his life's in danger, when his son Absalom revolts against him and wants to kill him, when the kingdom is in jeopardy, when David sin. All of these things come into his life, and what did David do? He always seemed to be able to praise the Lord. He remembered that God's still worthy. Whether his body's sick, he talked about his bones being broken and roaring under the the condemnation he was in because of sin. Listen, no matter what was happening in his life, he seemed to always get around to, Lord, you're still good. And Lord, you're still worthy. And Lord, I want to praise you anyhow. I want to praise you in spite of what's happening. I want to praise you in spite of how I'm feeling. I want to praise you in spite of what's If you wait until everything's going your way, how many of you know most time it don't? If you're waiting around for oh I'll praise him when the when the sun's shining. Well, it may not shine for a while, so you better get busy praising the Lord. But remember, He's still worthy. Can I say this? Prayer or praise is still appropriate on our worst day as it is on our best day. Do you know right now in heaven our Lord's continually being praised? Right now If you could somehow or another go through into the heavens and open into the throne room of God, you would hear a voice, or rather voice is and you would see a scene of continual praises to the Lord. And every time I read in the book of Revelation, every time I read about the multitudes, I see what's going on. The scene of glory is one of praise. Men are continually praising the Lord. They're continually praising the Lord. They're continually giving him the glory. Why? Because he's worthy. No matter what's happening down here on the earth. By the way, you study that, you'll find out that down here on the earth Antichrist is running amok. The man of sin is is bringing death and devastation under the direction of our sovereign God, but nevertheless their suffering and sorrow But the scene in glory is one of praises and worship and giving God glory for who He is. And that's a picture of what's going on now. We live in a land of sorrow. We live in a time of heartache. We live in loss. We know what it is to be touched with infirmity. We know what it is to struggle. We have our our hearts that get broken and we walk through that but just for a few minutes every once in a while when you find it hard to sing Think about what's going on in heaven, join in with that anthem in glory and praise God anyhow. That's what these men did. Remember, he's still worthy. I'm afraid we're conditioning a whole generation of Christians that they can't praise God unless everything's going their way. I mean you just gotta you gotta have the lighting right. You can't praise God if the lighting's not right. We've gotta have the mood just right. We've got to set the mood and the mood's just gotta be right, or we can't praise the Lord We got to sing this particular song because, you know, we really can't praise God till we sing that particular song. And I want you to know something. That ain't got nothing to do with real praise. Biblical praise don't need a mood. It doesn't need lighting. It doesn't need a special song. It just needs a heart that recognizes My God's worthy of the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and I'm going to praise him anyhow through the sun, through the shadows, through the valleys on the mountain, wherever I go, I'm going to praise the Lord. Boy, if you'll make up your mind to do that, you'll get help. He remembered, they remembered that he's still worthy. And when you find it hard to sing, just remember God's still worthy And last of all, I want you to see this. I want you to remember that he, God, is still working. You ever notice what the Spirit of God put in verse 25? And at midnight, Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God. Look at this little. I don't know if you called it addiction, but it just seems to be stuck in there. And the prisoners heard them Why do you reckon that's important? Because there were prisoners who needed Christ. There were people there who needed to be saved. There were people there, those prisoners. Now we don't hear anything else about them except that they're all still there. That's all we know. We don't know if any of them got saved. We don't, but we do know that there was a jailer who was listening to And he jumps in and says, What must I do to be saved? And may I ask you a question? How did that man know he needed to be saved? Because he heard Paul and Silas talking about it. He heard these men praising the Lord. And you know what? I believe these men, it helped them to be able to sing because they knew something was, God was working. They understood, listen, it might have cost them a little flesh and blood, and it might have cost them a little bit of temporary suffering, but God had put them there for a reason. There's somebody in here who needed to be saved. There's somebody in this prison that needs to be saved. You and I need to remember, a lot of times we get aggravated and upset with things going on in our life. But we may be right where we are, uncomfortable as it may be, because there's somebody there that needs the Lord. And they're not going to hear unless you speak. And there's nothing speaks more loudly than singing and praising the Lord when you ought not to be. Preacher, a friend of mine in Nova Scotia, we were coming back from a meeting. We were just north of the Niagara Falls, and I got a phone call and said Percy fell off a roof and broke his neck. And they said he's paralyzed from hi at that point he was paralyzed from his shoulders down. And God had mercy on him, and he got a little movement in his arms, got his arms where he could work a little bit, but he never regained his ability to walk. He was helping a widow lady in his church and he went to step on a ladder. He was two stories up and he went to step on a ladder and that ladder kicked out. And he didn't sense that that he'd kicked out and he just went ahead and stepped back and when he did, bang, he fell down, hit the curb there, and his his body's never been the same. And I went to see him in the uh in the QE2 hospital in Halifax. And one thing that struck me, here's a man who's no longer going to walk. He knows that. He's been told that. He's no longer going to be able to do the things he once did. At that point, he couldn't hardly move his arms, and it looked like that he was literally going to be bedfast for the rest of his life. And you know what he was doing? He was praising the Lord. And he and I were close enough, I said, I said, Brother Percy, do you find it hard to praise the Lord? He said, Shut that door. And I shut the door, and Brother Percy said, you know what, I sometimes I do. He said, I want you to remember something. He said, There's nurses walking up down these halls, and they're watching me. And he said, there's a man next door in that room. And I'll tell you, he said, he's listening. And there's others on this floor that know what's going on in my life. They all know I'm a preacher. They know all know I'm a Christian And he said, you know what? They're watching me. And he said, I figure if God's big enough to let this come into my life, he must have a purpose, and I'm just going to praise him anyhow, and maybe God will use me in this situation. You know what we need to remember? God's still working. God's still working. Brother Todd Bale's mother was bitten by a black fly and got blood poisoning from that bite. And she hung for some time. Her system went septic, and she hung between life and death for several, several weeks. Brother Bell would go in and pray with her. She was unconscious. He would pray with her, talk to her, and they would sing. He would sing. His family would sing. And I remember talking to him about that, and he would say, you know something, there are people there that need the Lord. I don't know why this happened, but here's what I do know. Somebody there that needs the Lord. And you know what a couple of those nurses, uh ICU nurses, got saved because of that witness of his family A couple of those ICU nurse one nurse said, I've dealt with people a long time. She said, I've never seen a family act like this in a situation like this And he said, I'll tell you why it's not because we're special, it's because we have a good Savior. And you know, he he he didn't let her have it right at first as far as the gospel is concerned He just kept bragging on the Lord and kept singing. And finally she came around and she said, Could you tell us a l could you tell me a little bit more about that? 'Cause she said, uh quite honest with you, I I don't understand it. It it doesn't make sense to me. Your mother's on death's door and here you guys are, you come in here, you're singing, you have joy, and and there must be something wrong with you or or something that you got that I don't have. And he said, Well, let me tell you about him. And so he began to share the gospel with her. And that precious lady got born again. And as far as I know, she's still living for the Lord Jesus. I'm just saying that he's still working. When things aren't good in me or around me or things are not good to me, I'll tell you something. God is still working. He's got something up his sleeve. He's doing something. I don't know what he's doing, but he's still doing something. Little did Paul and Silas know they were about to be a part of the birthing of the church at Philippi that was going to be one of the great Christian witnesses. In that part of the world in that day, and it was all going to come through their suffering. But not just through their suffering, but it came through their singing. They continued to sing even when it was hard. Because they remembered he's still working. God is doing something. Now, church, sometimes let's be honest. It's hard to sing. Say, preacher, what do I do when it's hard to sing? I say this very graciously. Sing anyhow. Just sing anyhow. Remember to worship the Lord. Sing because He's worthy. Sing because He's working. You don't know what God's going to do. I was sitting there thinking of those hymns that we were singing together. How many of them came out of tragedy? How many of them were born in some of the most horrific circumstances you can imagine? How many of them are on paper tonight and blessing our hearts because somebody went through a deep dark valley And said, I'm going to dig a well while I'm down here, because somebody else might come through here and they'll need a little bit of water. And thank God that's what those old hymns are. And so I'm saying tonight, when it's hard to sing, this will help you. Just remember to worship the Lord. And then, my friend, just remember that he is worthy. He's still worthy. He'll always be worthy. And remember, he's working. He's working. Romans 8. 28 is still in the Word of God, and it's still in effect. He's working all things together. Isn't he? For our good. And I want to add for his glory. May the Lord help us to sing even when it's hard. Father, we bow in Jesus' name and pray you'll use these few thoughts to encourage your people.