The Lord makes no mistake. And uh there are times when we would wish He did things differently But uh he's too wise to make a mistake, and he loves us too much to do something that would harm us. There are times when he does things that hurt but never harm. And there is a difference between the two. You look at the life of Job, and there are some things A lot of hurts that went on in his life. And um but none of them harmed him Uh they weren't bad for him. Uh the Lord didn't leave him in worse shape than he found him. And he never does. He always does things for our good and for his glory And I'm thankful for that, aren't you? Matthew chapter 2 tonight, your Bibles, Matthew chapter 2. And I am thankful for um just the uh all the blessings this week and the kids got to go uh on the uh field trip today with the with the uh kids from here, enjoyed the apple orchard and they brought me donuts. Hey man So thank you for that. I greatly appreciate that. I've appreciated it already, and I'm going to appreciate it a little bit more even later. And um Uh so thank you for that. Thank you for the good place to stay, the food that you brought, it's all been wonderful, and we appreciate it. I wanted to give you a quick update before we get in the message. Yesterday my brother called me And I'm going to try to make this story just as short as I can. My brother is our assistant pastor at our church in New Brunswick, Canada. And he called. He said, he said, Mark, and he hardly ever calls me. He's busy and I'm busy. He just doesn't call. We text a lot, but he doesn't call. But he said, I had to call you Because I had to tell you what happened today. This w would have been yesterday. And I wanted to give the update last night and I just forgot to. But um He called, there's a lady in our church, and she has a son out in Western Canada that's unsaved, and and so uh she Uh obviously asking the church to pray for him and and Paul got a burden to uh to try to see if he could find somebody to go visit him out there. And so uh tried to get in touch with some folks out there and finally was able to get in touch with the church out there. And uh the the man was not interested in in any kind of uh uh uh visit from the church. Uh but uh Paul was talking with a pastor out there and he said uh uh he said uh How are things going at the church? He said, well, they're doing well. And he said, we just started a new ministry this summer, and they call it Seed and Sickle. And uh he said, Well tell me about it. He said, Well, what we've been doing is we go out and we put out door hangers in these communities around our church, and uh and every week we have a weekly gospel meeting and we preach the gospel. And uh and Paul said, You you're kidding me? He said, We just started this summer at our church This same ministry. We're doing the same thing. And um, you know, it was kind of encouraging in the fact that, you know, maybe there's other crazy people out there, amen. And uh you know, sometimes you what God gives you something to do and you're not sure if it's the Lord or if it's just your own crazy idea, but um uh uh that was that was great to hear that. They've had good response out there. And God's raised up a man to to uh uh work that ministry right there in that in their local church. And that's what we're praying for. We're praying to God raise up some men. to uh to just uh get planted up there in New Brunswick in our province and take the gospel and um The story is long. It's a lot more interesting than what I was able to give you tonight, but um it was just a real blessing to hear that um uh listen and I want to encourage us here tonight. We're not the only ones that love God. We're not the only ones trying to see people get saved. And uh it's wonderful to be a part of the greatest work that this world has ever known. That's the work of the gospel. And uh it's always encouraging to hear of others who are taking the gospel and and so uh please please pick up one of our prayer cards back there uh on your way out if you haven't yet and pray for that ministry and uh and pray for this ministry out in western Canada You know, it seems like uh just it just feels like that this thing's about to wind down and uh uh you know, that trumpet's about to sound, and I believe the Lord is is uh uh I don't know if pressuring is the right word, I think it probably is, uh, on his people to get the gospel out. And um, yeah, there's a lot of things we could be doing, but let's make sure that we're busy about the father's business. And um and so I thought that would be an encouragement to you, is an encouragement to me. So Matthew chapter two And I do appreciate each one being out here tonight. If you would stand with me as we read the text, we'll read first several verses here of Matthew chapter 2, down through about verse number 12 And I want to bring a simple thought to us tonight that God has been dealing my heart about today, and I pray it be a blessing and a help to us. Matthew chapter 2, verse number 1, the Bible says, now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, Behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he that is born, King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and are come to worship him. When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled. And all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born. And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet, and thou Bethlehem in the land of Judah, art not the least among the princes of Judah. For out of thee shall come a governor that shall rule my people Israel. Then Herod, when he had privately called the wise men, inquired of them diligently what time the star appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search diligently for the young child. And when you have found him, bring me word again, that I may come and worship him also. When they had heard the king, they departed, and lo, the star which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and fell down and worshipped him And when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh. And being warned of God in a dream that they should not return to Herod. They departed into their own country another way. I'm interested tonight in two phrases here in verse, one in verse seven and one in verse eight. It says that Herod, when he privately called the wise men, inquired of them diligently. What time the star appeared. And then verse 8 it says, And he sent them to Bethlehem and said Go and search diligently for the young child. I want to think about these two statements here tonight Are you inquiring diligently or are you searching diligently? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the day you've given us. God, beautiful sunshine you've sent our way today. And we thank you for it. We thank you for the precious word of God. And Lord, we come to you tonight. We sure are in need of your help and your enabling tonight. Father, in in and of myself, I cannot deliver the message that you placed upon my heart the way that it needs to be done. But Father, by the power of your Spirit, you can take the Word of God and take this frail vessel. And deliver the message that you have for our hearts tonight. God, we know that you do all things well. Lord, we know that you uh see the end from the beginning. There's nothing that limits you and nothing that takes you by surprise. You know what we stand in need of tonight. And Father, I pray that you would fill me with your spirit. Use me for your glory. And Father, I pray that each and every one in this place tonight would be hungry and thirsty for righteousness. God, I pray that we'd have a thirst for you and a true desire to worship you. And Lord, I pray that you would guide us into the truth by your Spirit tonight. There's someone here tonight unsaved, oh God. By the Holy Ghost, convict them of their sin and bring them to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ tonight. May they turn from their sin and turn to Christ, be made a new creature in Christ Jesus. God, I pray you'd revive our hearts once again tonight. that thy people may rejoice in thee. In Jesus' precious name we pray. Amen. Thank you for standing. You may be seated. This story, I think many times we overlook this, and maybe we'll only uh pay attention to this one time out of the year. But you know the Bible is a year-round book, amen. And uh the stories in the Bible we can learn from these things, and I love preaching about Jesus And in this passage we read about the birth of Jesus, and we read about these wise men who came from afar to worship the Lord. And um uh they had a a a sincere desire to worship God. But not everybody in this passage has a sincere or had a sincere desire to worship the Lord Jesus. Outwardly, Herod says that he wants to worship God. But in reality, he has ulterior motives for his desire to see the Lord or to find the Lord. It's sad to say that many people today, it seems, are willing to come to church and even have an interest in the scriptures and what the scripture has to say. But it seems that it's so shallow it does not get down to what we were talking about last night. They might want to know the scripture, but they don't seem to want to know the Lord. And they are not the same thing. Amen. Knowing the word of God is good and it's important, and it is really the only way to truly know God is to know him through his word. But listen, if the word of God just gets to your head and it never gets to your heart, uh you might know the book but not know the author. In this story, Herod he inquires diligently what time the star appeared. He's asking the right questions, it seems. He has a desire to know, and he's diligent in asking for these answers. We know the story here, you're familiar with it But uh as the wise men come, they they come from the east and they're coming to seek the Lord, and they want to know where Jesus is. And for some reason, I don't really know why, I can't explain why, but that star does not lead them directly to where Jesus is. They come to Israel, they know he's in uh this area somewhere, but he they do not go to Bethlehem initially, they go to Jerusalem. And it could be that the Lord brought them this way just for this meeting And it could be that the Lord was offering an opportunity for Herod to recognize the true king. And yet, from this story, we see that though Herod receives the wise men in and asks them different questions regarding he who is to be born king of the Jews. We understand that really in his heart, he is not filled with joy at this news. He is troubled. He's troubled at this. And in in particular, that says that when in verse number two, when the wise men come to him They asked the question, where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and are come to worship him. When Herod the king had heard these things Well, what things did he heard? He'd heard that there was a new king. And he certainly was not too anxious about that or to uh receive that new king. He was troubled because of the news of a new king. He was troubled, I believe, because they described to him that the star had guided them to this place. And Herod uh would understand that this is not just some crazy guys out east who have this wild idea that a king's being born here. Now he understands, okay, there's something supernatural. About this king who's to be born. There's something that would draw these men many miles from their homes to come and see this king. Herod is thinking, boy, I I I don't like this at all. He's troubled. And then he understands that they've come not just to see the king, but they've come to worship him. He's troubled by worship. You know it's sad to say as we travel from church to church and we get in meetings, and listen, every meeting's different, every service is different from night to night. from service to service. There seems to have a little bit different flavor. Sometimes you get in a church service and there's a real spirit of worship that comes over that place. And men's hearts are moved to worship the Lord. And you know, it's troubling to me to look out and see people troubled by worship. I've seen them since then, they'll do they'll do like this, they'll go like this. They don't like worship. They'll say, Well that's in the flesh. I was at a meeting a couple weeks ago and the pastor he did that thing, he he he gave that illustration. He said, he said, some of y'all when when when we started worshiping God, you cross your arms like this and Stuck out your lid and puckered your brow and said, Well, that's just flesh. Well, that is too. Amen. No attitudes, flesh. This it it doesn't bother me when people worship my Savior. I encourage it, I appreciate it. I want to get involved in it. Listen, great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. He the psalmist said, Oh, worship the Lord with me, magnify his name Together, let's exalt him, let's lift him up, let's have a real sincere heart of worship to our God. Herod was troubled by this And all Jerusalem was troubled with him. You know why? Because they had gotten to a place where they're comfortable. And this new king would stir things up. You know, one of the things I believe that the Laodicean church values above anything else is our comfort. This Western civilization, we like our comfort. We like our bubble Amen. If you travel around the world there's places, a lot of places, they don't understand the bubble. You know? Like we've all got a bubble, right? We're comfortable in our little bubble. Don't get too close. Amen. We like our elbow room. Well, a lot of those places they don't have elbow room. They're jammed in there, and they don't believe they don't understand the personal bubble. They don't understand a lot of the comforts, but we like our comforts. Here's the problem: many times we get comfortable spiritually Listen, when the Lord Jesus Christ shows up, he makes people uncomfortable. Why? Because he stirs us from our slumber He invades our little kingdoms because he alone is the king. He alone is the one who deserves the preeminence. And so Herod is troubled by this. This is what's going on inside of Herod, but outwardly he's saying all the right things. He's saying, Well, I want to know where he is. I want to worship the Lord Jesus. I want to worship this new king. And he inquires diligently. You see here in verse number four, says when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, He demanded of them where Christ should be born. You know what he's saying? I want to know what you believe. You know, I'm a little I'm a little uh there's there's red flags that go up when I first meet somebody and they want to talk about everything that we might disagree on. What do you believe about this? What do you believe about that? What do you believe? Why is that so important to you? I'll tell you what I do. I believe Jesus Christ is the Son of God. I believe that He came to this earth. He was virgin born. He lived a sinless life. He died on the cross for our sins. He rose again, and I believe that his blood can save the violent sinner. That's for starters. I believe this book is God's perfectly preserved word that He's given to us. And we can trust every word? Amen. I think that's pretty good ground to stand on. Don't come up to me afterwards and say, what do you believe about the gap? Well it depends on what gap you're talking about. We're talking about the one between your ears. We got a demand. Boy, he he he gets it all together. What do you think it says? What do you think it says? What do you think it says? There's no heart of worship. He wants to know what the book says, but not for the right reasons. There are too many of that these days. And here, so he gathers them together, he says, I need to know this, and they tell him verse 5 in Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it's written by the prophet, and he gives the The quote there. And then the last part of that quote really, I'm sure, bothered Herod. Look at verse number six, and thou Bethlehem in the land of Judah art not the least among the princes of Judah For out of thee shall come a governor that shall rule my people, Israel. You know what Herod understood? That prophecy was not about him. Yeah. And he's thinking, boy, he wants to know what the Bible says, but it's not because he wants to worship the Lord. You know what he's going to try to use the Bible for? He's going to try to use it for self-promotion. Hello. Well that's happening all over this country and all over this world Men who are propping themselves up by the book, instead of saying, The book is over me, they use the book to build themselves. That's h that's a hard attitude about the Word of God. You know, that tells me there's no real desire to know the Lord. There's no real desire to worship the Lord in a heart that would use the Word of God. Well I thank God for John the Baptist. He was going to come on the scene here in just a little while, and you know what he'd be out there doing? He'd be out there saying, Behold, the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. I must decrease. He must increase. He that was sent before me is preferred before me, for he was before me. I'm just here as a witness. I'm not the light. I'm just sent to bear witness of the light, the true light, the lighteth every man that cometh into light. Give me some John the Baptist and leave the herons out of it, Amen. Amen. Herod wanted to know what the Bible said, the scriptures, but only for self-promotion. He had no heart to worship. When you think about and you compare Herod with these wise men. These wise men were pretty ignorant, really. All they knew is that that star was his star. Now, how they knew that, I'm not quite sure. Maybe they had some knowledge of the prophecies that have been given in the book of Numbers about the star as a reference to Christ. But we know one thing for sure they didn't know about the Bethlehem prophecy. Isn't that right? All they knew is the stars and the the star is shining, and something in them tells them, hey, follow that star And when it comes to the scriptures, they appear to be quite ignorant, and yet they have a heart, a true heart, to worship the king. I'd rather have a church full of these wise men than a church full of Herods and scribes and Pharisees that know this book inside out, but don't have they don't have any interest in knowing the God of this book. Look at uh look at Matthew chapter fifteen, if you will. Matthew fifteen I'm saying I I want to know the Lord Jesus. I want to know His uh His His heart. I want a fellowship with Him. I want Him to speak to me I don't want to just learn facts about him. I want to learn him. Matthew chapter 15, look at verse number 8. The Lord is dealing with the Pharisees here. We'll jump uh jump in the middle of it here. He says, Well, look at verse 7. He says, Ye hypocrites, well did Isaiah prophesy of you, saying This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoreth me with their lips, but their heart, their heart is far from me. Now look as a result of their heart being far from them, look at verse number nine. But in vain they do worship me. Teaching for doctrines of the commandments of men. You know what he say? That word vain, you know what it means. Empty. It's meaningless. They've got worship, but it's empty worship. Just like Herod said, Oh, I want to worship the Lord. I want to worship this king. Show me where he is so I can worship him. It's all just words. It's all just words. Many of these, listen, many of these these places that are called churches today They become nothing more than just a promotion of flesh. And they get up and they talk a lot about worship. But I don't think they're worshiping the same Jesus that we're worshiping, not the Jesus of the Bible. By their fruits ye shall know them. And what they're promoting as worship sure looks a whole lot like the world. Amen. With their fog lights and their smoke machines and their and their their drumsets and everything else they got going on. They didn't get that from the Bible. Amen. You say, brother, you're being mean spirited. I'm not being mean spirited. I'm just saying it they might call it worship, but it's not worship. Not of the Savior. In vain they do worship me They say they want to worship and they say they want to know the scriptures, but in reality, they just want to be able to know what the scripture says in order to promote self. You say this back in our text there in Matthew chapter two. In verse seven, he inquired diligently. He's asking the right questions But though Herod inquires diligently, you know what he's not willing to do? He's not willing to search diligently. He sends someone else to go search diligently. You know why? Because that's too much effort. It really shows and it reveals the level or the lack of level of interest in knowing the Savior that Herod has. He wants to know facts about the Savior, but he doesn't want to know the Savior. So he'll ask the questions so he can get the information, but he is not going to move from where he is to go to where Christ is Hey, you know what real worship will do? It will move us from where we are to where He is This new idea of worship though is about it it's reverse. It's about the Lord coming to where we are. Listen, the Lord left heaven, didn't he? And came down to this earth. But at that point, from that point forward, it's up to you. Jesus said, Come unto me. All ye that labor in a heavy layout, I'll give you rest. There is a responsibility of mankind to come to Christ. Why, he is the one to be worshipped. He's come as far as he's coming. The rest is up to you. You better get yourself to the Lord. Herod says, Well, I want to know all this information. Why don't you just go and look yourself? You know, you really see it even even in the inquiring part. He didn't have much uh he didn't have much desire because all he he he asked the the the scribes and and you know all the the Pharisees and all the What does the scripture say about uh where where the Messiah is going to be born? Why don't you read it? You're the king. You know it was in the law that the kings were to make a copy, to write out a copy of the law. That was one of God's laws concerning the kings of Israel. They had to write it out. He certainly had access to the scriptures He certainly could have opened up the book and read it for himself, but he really was not interested in doing that because he really wasn't interested in the Lord. He was not truly interested in fellowship with God. He was interested in keeping his position. He was interested in having control of his life. He was interested in being the king, not Jesus. These wise men, the Lord warned them. Don't return to Herod. They departed on their own uh into their own country another way. These wise men, though They were less instructed in the scripture, yet they were wiser because they had a heart to obey God You know, those who have a desire to obey God and to live for God, God will grant them light. Look at Psalm fifty. Hold your place there in Matthew two. Look at Psalm fifty I'm thankful. Listen, if you're here tonight and you say, Well, I just, you know, I'm not really sure uh uh how to go about this Christian life. If you will humble yourself to the Lord, And if you have a true desire to serve and worship the Lord, God will bring to you the light that you need to worship the Lord. Look at Psalm 50. Look at verse number twenty-three. What a powerful verse. Listen to it. Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me. And to him that ordereth his conversation aright, will I show the salvation of God? You know what he's saying? Listen, if you've got a heart to live right and you've got a heart of praise to the Lord, then I will show you what you need to do. And these wise men listened, they had a heart for God, they didn't have all their doctrine right, they didn't even know much of the doctrine, but they had a desire to know the Lord. And the God of heaven sent a light their way to guide them to a place where they can hear the truth and meet the Lord Jesus Christ and see the King for themselves. Our God wants your fellowship. He wants to draw you near. If you have a heart toward him, listen, he's already got a heart toward you. Now, let me show you this here in back in Matthew chapter two Herod, he had a NIV attitude. You say, what does that mean, preacher? Well, in Matthew chapter two, and I I checked this again just to make sure. On my facts here, and I've got the facts straight. In Matthew chapter 2, in verse number 1, you'll notice the phrase Herod the king. And then in verse number 2 of Matthew chapter 2, you see the phrase King of the Jews. Where is he that is born king of the Jews? Now in your King James Bible. In verse number one, the word king is a lowercase. Is that right? Verse number two, the word king, the K and King is uppercase. Did you know in the NIV The non-inspired version of the Bible. Do you know these are reversed? And Herod, the king, is capital K. And Jesus the king is lowercase k. Listen, you know what that really describes? It describes the attitude that Herod had. You know why he didn't want to worship? The Lord Jesus, because he wanted to be the king. And I'm telling us here tonight, I'm warning us here tonight, just because you have the right Bible. And just because you're going to the right kind of church, and just because you've got a godly pastor, does not mean that you have a heart of worship to the Lord. You can be carrying a King James Bible and have an NIV attitude. I want the worship I want the praise. I want the glory. I want to rule Herod was faced with a choice, and we all are. Who's going to be the king? And you can say, Oh, I I I love the Lord, I want to worship the Lord, I want him to be the king. But if you don't want it bad enough to search diligently in your in your Private time with God to really worship the Lord Jesus, to really know Him, to really leave where you are and go to where He is. They are just words. He wants to be the king. He should be the king. He is the king. Whether we recognize it or not. You know, in Mark chapter six it tells us that Herod He he called John the Baptist. He liked to hear John preach. And he did many of the things that John preached. You know, oh boy. And the Bible says he heard him gladly on many things. Many things. Then John got to preaching really personal things against Herod. Hey Herod, it's not lawful for you to have your brother's wife. He didn't like that. You know why? I'm the king. It's my life. I can do whatever I want to do. Come on, we hear that all the time. Well, you don't have the right to tell me what I should do. Who are you? You're John the Baptist. You're a crazy guy who lives out in the wilderness and eats bugs. Why should we listen listen to you? Well, it's not me. It's God's word. It's not lawful. No, that means it's not biblical. What you're doing doesn't line up with God's word What you're doing goes against the king. And we just don't like that these days. The old flesh never has liked it, no matter the day. But it seems like we've gotten to a place where now we just feel like nobody can tell us what to do And here's the kicker. It's not the devil's crowd that's embracing that mentality. Too many times it's the people in the church that say, Hey, back off, back off You know what it is? You got King James in your hand, but you got NIV in your heart. I'm the King. Why don't we just listen and you say, preacher, that's not me. Well I pray it's not. But you know what I know? I know this. We all have that potential. I believe God is blessed in these days, primarily because we're just willing and we're humble before Him, say, Lord, whatever you want. Just speak to me. And yes, I want to know the word, but I want to know you. This is why I want to know the word. Don't study the word. Listen, don't study the word to know the word. Study the word to know the word of God. Jesus Christ. You got Herod, you got all these guys, and they're searching that book, and they're wanting to find what the book says, but they have no heart to do it. And then you've got these wise men over here. They don't even have a book. They don't even have a book. But then I'll tell you what they do have. They have a heart. That is hungering after God, and they understand that they're missing something, and they're willing to leave where they are to get to where He is. Here they travel all these miles, they get to Herod, and they all this traveling they've done, and Herod said, Okay, you know what I need you to do? You go you go travel some more. You go find him. No, they were glad to do so. But not Herod. I'm not leaving where I am. You bring him to me. That's what listen, that's what he wanted. Those wise men are going to come back to him, they're going to report to him, and then he's going to go send his soldiers. And they're going to go get that baby, and they're going to bring that baby to him, because in Herod's world everything revolved around Herod. Because he's the king. Maybe in these days we would say, Lord, I'm not asking you to come to me. You just let me know where you are, and I'll go to you. I'll leave where I'm at. I'll go to where you are. You just shine that light so I can see Turn the light on through the Word of God and show me where you are, and I'll leave where I am to get to where you are. Let's stand together. Heavenly Father.