That's good. Amen. Would you take your Bible, please, and go with me to the Gospel of Matthew? Matthew chapter number twenty-one. When you find your place, I'd ask you to look at the verses 1 to 11. I'm going to read these in your hearing. And I'm going to invite you to stand when you find your place as we honor the reading of God's Word. Matthew chapter number twenty one and beginning in verse number one And when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem and were come to Bethesh unto the Mount of Olives. Then sent Jesus two disciples, saying unto them, Go into the village over against you, and straightway ye shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her, loose them and bring them unto me. And if any man say aught unto you, ye shall say, The Lord hath need of them, and straightway he will send them. All this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, saying, Tell ye the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy king cometh unto thee, meek and sitting upon an ass, and a colt, the foal of an ass. And the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them And brought the ass and the colt and put them on the and put on them their clothes, and they set him there on. And a very great multitude spread their garments in the way. Others cut down branches from the trees and strawled them in the way. And the multitudes that went before and that followed cried, saying, Hosanna to the son of David. Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. And when he was come into Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? And the multitude said, This is Jesus, the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee. Father, help us, please, this morning. And speak to our hearts as only you can for your glory and our good. We confess our need, for without you we can do nothing. And so, Father, would you undertake? We'll thank you for it. Help us now to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. Hide your servant. Help us to speak of Christ alone. May your will be done in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. The passage I just read is titled Maybe in your Bible in some of other uh Bibles, it will have over the top the triumphant entry of Jesus. Jesus is making his way to Jerusalem. We're days. We're just days before the crucifixion. And what strikes me as I read this every time I've ever read it is that the crowd is saying, Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna, the crowd before him, the crowd behind him. The people around him, they're all joining in. Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna. And yet the same crowd is going to cry in a few days, crucify him, crucify him, crucify him. How fickle man is. We learn at the very last days of our Lord's life that He's doing the will of God. And as he does the will of God, he's making his way to Jerusalem to die there. Now, this event I just read, the coming of the Lord Jesus to Jerusalem, all four gospel writers record it. That's kind of a rare thing. Very few instances in the life of the Lord did all four write something about. Sometimes Matthew writes and Luke doesn't, and Mark may and John perhaps. But on this occasion, every writer has something to say about this triumphant entry. Mark in chapter 11, if you're interested, in verses 1 to 10. We're going to read parts of these later. Luke 19, verses 28 to 40. And John in John 12 verses 12 to 19. Now Matthew brings the most detail And I've read this because I believe there's something we need to see in this passage of Scripture, but let me point out to you some things that are happening here. In the verses 1, 2, and 3, we see the sending of the two. The Lord Jesus is getting ready. He's on the outskirts, if you will, and he's getting ready to go into Jerusalem, and he sends two disciples. Now the Bible don't tell us who they are But I think if we read all four Gospels, we come to believe it's Peter and John. And he says, I want you to go, and there's going to be a donkey there, it's going to have a baby or a young colt there. And he said, I I want you to take it. It's tied in the in in the way. I think it's Mark who says he's tied in the way. And he said, I want you to take it. And if somebody says, What are you doing with it? You tell them the Lord hath need. Isn't that interesting how those two disciples go into the city over the community next And they get this little colt or they get this donkey and its colt and they bring it and they start away and somebody says, Hey, where are you going? That'd be like somebody getting in your car and starting to drive off and you say, Hey, where are you going? And they say, The Lord hath need of him. Now you say, Preacher, what if I get in your car and drive off and say the Lord hath need of him? I'll say the Lord didn't tell me, you get your carcass out. But it was true of this donkey, the Lord hath need. And he said, You go and get that animal and you bring it back to me. And they did. Then I want you to notice the scriptures are fulfilled. Why did they do that? The Bible says that the scriptures might be fulfilled. Zechariah had said, and they do something here. They combined two verses, two scriptures in the Old Testament, which is something that happened a lot in the Bible. There would be a portion taken here and a portion taken here, and they're put together. And so Zechariah 9. 9 and Isaiah 62. 11 are combined in this statement when it says, Behold, thy king cometh, and he comes sitting on that colt, the fold of an ass. And so the scriptures are being fulfilled. I'll say more about that in just a moment. But then you have the shouting multitude In verses 8 and 9, we're told they cry out. There's a group in front of him, there's a group behind him, there's a multitude surrounding him, and they're all crying as they go, Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna, they're crying out. And over in Luke's gospel, Luke says this, he said the Pharisees didn't like that shouting. Maybe I need to say that again. Pharisees said they didn't like that shouting. And when they didn't like that shouting, they said, Lord, make your disciples stop. Tell them to quit. And you remember what he said? He said if they hold their voice, the rocks will cry out. He said the rocks will lift their voices in praise. This was a moment in time ordained of God for Christ to be recognized on his way to Calvary and to be worshipped rightly so. And then you'll notice the stirring of the city in verse 10. The Bible says, and when he was come into Jerusalem, look at this statement. Sometimes we read things and we don't think about them. All the city was moved. All of it. Um, there was an uproar. The whole city's kind of stirred up. What's going on? Can you imagine if somebody came into the city, you've got a multitude in front, Shouting Hosanna, a multitude behind Shout and Hosanna? A crowd gather around him, shouting Hosanna, and you're looking and you're trying to see uh who who it is or what it is. Is it the king? Is it someone of importance? And you look and it's just a In your estimation now, a common man on a little donkey that's got clothes laid on its back, riding in town. And the whole city's wondered, what's going on here? What what is what's happening? Who and here's what they ask, who is this? Who is this? If the Lord will help me this morning, and I'm trusting him to do that, if the Lord will help me this morning, I want to preach on who is this? Do you know something? Four times in the Gospels that question is asked. And I think they're all important, and I think we ought to look at them real quick. So go to Luke chapter 5 with me. In Luke chapter 5, verse number 21. We have a miracle that takes place here. And in this miracle, there is a man who is taken with palsy. He's paralyzed. And he's brought to the Lord Jesus, and instead of saying, Be healed, or something of that nature, he says this, son, thy sins be forgiven thee. And and when they heard those words, they not only saw uh a miracle, but they began to wonder at what does this mean? Here is a man, he said, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee, and what happened? Immediately he stood up. That man who was paralyzed, that man who was sick of the palsy, that man who was was destined, if you will, to live that way his whole life has his sins forgiven and instantaneous instantaneously has his body healed. And they start to ask questions. Verse 21. The scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this? And watch what they said, which speaketh blasphemies. Who can forgive sins but God alone? By the way, rather than acknowledge Jesus for who he was, they attributed his works to the devil. Rather than saying, like that wise Gamalil did in the book of Acts, who said, Let it be. And if it's of God, you can't fight it. And if it's not of God, it'll be destroyed. So just let it be. Rather than keeping their mouths closed and their tongues steel, they said Who can forgive? Who is this? Only God can forgive sin. See, there was an ignorance about the Lord. And then look at another occasion here in Luke 7. Outside of Matthew, Luke records all three. Luke chapter number seven and verse number forty-nine If you take time to read the story, there was a woman, the Bible calls her a sinner. And she comes to the Lord and she Washes his feet. I believe there's two occasions. You may believe there's just one, but I think there's two. I think this is a different woman than the one who brought perfume. In Luke chapter 7, she washes his feet with her tears. She washes her feet with the with his feet with her tears. She's weeping so much, she's so brokenhearted that her tears are washing the dirt off of the feet of the Lord Jesus. Man, that's crying. I'm going to tell you something. I think we'd do better if we shed a few more tears. I mean, not the kind that are forced out through pain, but the kind that come from a heart tender before God. I can still remember a scene just in my mind as a little boy. We had wooden altars in our church. They were oak logs cut in half, stained, and legs put on them, and they were our altars. And I can remember the altars being mopped after church. They mopped them. You know why so many people cry? God was working in those days. I remember hearing a preacher say, When the tears start, that's a good time to pull weeds. You know, if you go out here and this ground is baked, hard as asphalt, and you try to pull weeds, all you're gonna do is pull tops. But you let the rain start to fall and soften that ground, you can get to roots and everything. God can do something in our hearts when they're tender, not when they're hard, but when our hearts are tender, God's able to get some weeds and get them rooting all But she's weeping. She's so broken and so burdened, I think, with her sin, and she's so recognizing that Jesus is the only answer. And she lays at his feet and washes them with her tears and dries it with her hair. And look what the Bible says, verse forty-eight. And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven. Let me say something. Her sins weren't forgiven because she wept. I think she wept because her sins were forgiven. She came with a broken and burdened heart. And then look what it says in verse 49. And they that sat at meet with him began to say with himself, Who is this that forgiveth sins also? Who is this? Do you know Jesus caused a stir about everywhere he went? Luke chapter 9 is our next one, and let me show it to you quickly. Luke chapter nine, verse number forty eight, I believe it is. We find again that wicked Herod , he's wanting to know something here about the Lord Jesus. And the Lord Jesus, as he deals with this man Herod, the Bible says that Herod wanted to know: who is this? Herod said, Who who is this? I I need to meet him. I've heard a lot about him. He he's someone that that that's that's gotten my attention and and I really want to know what he's up to because He might be a threat to me. I want to remind you this morning that all of these individuals were merely curious Can I remind you this morning that all of these individuals just simply kind of wanted to know who he was because of what he was doing? But when we read here in the Word of God, I believe there are some who really want to know the answer to who is this? If you honestly ask the question, I believe God will give the answer. Now, if you're just curious, don't expect nothing from the Lord. If you're just curious, don't think for a minute, God. Was it A. W. Tozer said God has nothing to say to the curious man. God has nothing to say to the curious man. If if I can put it in language we understand God God's not interested in entertaining the nosy. He's looking to save the needy. He he he listen, if if all how many how many accidents are caused by nosy people? There's a wreck, and what do people do? They start. They want to know. So everybody slows down, everybody slows down, next thing you know, bam, somebody hits somebody else. And again, they're just curious. What's going on? We're we're natured like that for some reason. I always heard and I sort of like this statement, curiosity killed the cat That's me. Lord help me. But that's what they say. I didn't come up with that, so don't get mad at me. I ain't the one that said it. That's just something old. I don't know where it comes from But these people were just curious. The scribes, the Pharisees, Herod, that crowd that sat at meet with Jesus, every one of them were just curious. Who is this? He's causing so much stir. He's causing so much angst. He's really the people are really and now look at him. Look at all this crowd. They're following along, crying out, Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna. Who is this man? Well, I want to say to you this morning, he's four very clear things. They're found right here in our text. Number one, he's nature's maker. That's who he is. He's nature 's maker. He's scriptures , number two, he's scripture's fulfiller. He's Scripture's fulfiller. Number three, he's Israel's king. That's who he is. He's Israel's king. And number four, he's mankind's Savior. If you'll let me this morning, I want to elaborate on those as we consider who is this. The most important question you'll ever answer is in regards to the Lord Jesus. Who is this? You see, we often go about this thing and we get the cart before the horse. We want to know something about religion, or we want to know something about the Bible. And we want to know something about uh, you know, traditions, but what we really need to know about is who is this man, Jesus? Who is he? He's the one that really matters. It does not let's be honest this morning. It does not matter. It really does not matter. This might get me in trouble, some of my Baptist brethren. But it really does not matter that striper title you claim. It really doesn't matter. That's really listen, there's going to be no Baptist entrance into heaven. There's only a Bible way. There's only a bloodbought way. There's only the Lord Jesus' way. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh unto the Father but by me. A lot of times we want to know all these answers to things that are really not important. Who is this is an important question. Can I ask you this morning, have you sincerely said concerning Jesus? Not religion, not church, not traditions, not those things, but Jesus, this man called Jesus. This man called Jesus who altered our calendar. This man called Jesus who rose from the dead. This man called Jesus who lived like nobody has ever lived, who died like nobody ever could die. and who rose again in a fashion that no one else could because he was resurrected by the power of his own name. Now there's nobody like this, and you do well to find out who is this Beloved, this morning you can meet someone here, myself, others, and forget who we are and forget where where we came from and know nothing at all. And it not faze you at all. It not it not affects you. It doesn't affect you. It won't affect you. But to be confronted with the person of Jesus Christ and to turn away is going to affect you for all of eternity. Who is this? The question was asked, perhaps insincerely, but maybe this morning there are those that are sincere about it. They want to know. It you see, you you've got something in you that says, I want to be more than just religious. I want to do more than just fit in We're awful we're awful quick to just say, well, you know, I belong. People say all the time, hey, I I was visiting one time here Some time ago, but I knocked on this door and I invited someone to church and they said, Oh, I go to church. I said, Well, where do you go to church? They said, Marinath the Baptist Church. I said, really? Yeah, we go to Marinatha Baptist Church. I said, where 's that church located? I'm not sure. I know where that's at. And they said, it's over on Old Elkneck Road, and they gave me the address And then we talked a little more, and I said, well, uh, do you know who the preacher is? No, I I can't remember his name. And and you know what? I felt so awful having to do it. I said, can I be honest with you? I'm the pastor of Mary Nathan Baptist Church. I just want to introduce myself and and I don't recall seeing you. I said it may be that you've been here and I didn't see you And you talk about you think these pews are red. Man, their face is redder than these pews. A lot of times we just kind of join in. We lay hold of something that has not laid hold of us. There are people who claim to be Christians who do not know Jesus Christ. It's a false claim to say, I know, I'm a Christian, but yet I don't know Jesus Christ. Dear friend, the only way for you or I to see God's good heaven is through a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. You can belong to every church in this county. You could have been raised in a church until you're part of the furniture. You can be so immersed in a religion that you know it front and back and left and right and yet still not be saved. The answer, the question that needs to be answered is who is this? Who is this riding through the streets of Jerusalem on a little old donkey? And the people are taking the palm branches and waving them and casting their outer garments on the ground and saying, Hosanna, Hosanna, who is this? Is this some Strange character? Is this some individual who uh is a self-appointed Messiah? Is this uh who brother um Brother Broadbeck, Brother Justin. We were talking last week and he said he was preaching in Toronto, Ontario on the street, and he started to preach and a guy walked up and said, I'm the Messiah. Shook his hand. He said, Well, what do you mean you're the Messiah? He said, I'm Jesus, the Son of God. Brother Justin said, I didn't know what to say. He said, That I'd never had anybody do that to me before. And he said I I said, well, he said, I'm here to preach about the real Jesus. And he said he about got a whipping. He said, that guy got so mad he said, I am the real Jesus. Well no, he's just a delusional man. The real Jesus lived two thousand years ago. The real Jesus went to a cross and died for your sin. The real Jesus was put in a grave, but hallelujah couldn't stay there because three days later he rose and lives forevermore. That's the real Jesus And that real Jesus went up into heaven, ascended at the Father's right hand, and that real Jesus is going to come again one day. And friend, when he comes, you better know who this is. Beloved, this morning the Bible makes it quite clear. Could you notice something with me? Number one, he is nature's maker He is nature's maker. I want you to see something over here. I believe it's in Colossians. Colossians chapter number one. Yes. Colossians chapter one, verse sixteen, for by him that's Jesus. We're all things created. That are in heaven, that are in earth, visible, invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. He's nature's maker. May I remind you this morning that in the text I've just read, we have a visible demonstration of nature's maker. You say, where? Mark records for us that Jesus did not ride the mother donkey, but he rode the colt. And Mark says this, upon which no man ever sat. This colt had not been set upon, it had not been broken, it had not been ridden. I'm not a cowboy and don't claim to be. And I don't know a whole lot about that, but I do know enough about this. You don't sit on an animal who's never been sat on. You don't ride an animal that's not broke. Now you may try, but it's going to teach you a lesson Years ago we rented a house from Brother Jack Turney. He was the man who founded and started the uh Christian started out as Christian book distributors. And then it became the Christian uh Bible distribution, and then they just became Christian distributors. And we rented his house on the mountain in Fines Creek. He had three horses and he said, I'll tell you what, I'll cut the rent in half if you'll feed them, care for them, and ride them every once in a while. I said, man, that's a deal. That's not a big thing to do. Man, you get to ride the horse, get the fool with that thing, and and he buys the feed and you put it in its belly. That's a pretty good deal. And he had a horse. He had a male horse named George. He had a female horse named Ruby, which by the way was his wife's name. George Ruby, and he had a little horse named Baby Horse. He was straining for originality here. George Ruby and Baby Horse He says, you know, George hadn't been ridden in about eight years. Now, George was broke. He had been taught to ride. I mean, he'd put a saddle on him, bridle and all that. He's not been ridden in eight years. He said, I'd really appreciate it if you get them to where when we come up here in the summer that we could ride them. I never broke a horse or messed with a horse like that. George was a great big Tennessee walking horse, long-legged. Boy, he was full of life. Full of life And so I called Elizabeth's brother and I said, Hey, you want to help me do something? He said, sure. He was young and you know, when you're young you're just a little bit dumb, so you'll Do things that you normally other people wouldn't do. I said, you know, I want to go riding. And now Ruby was docile. I bet she was 150 years old. She didn't have the energy to hurt you. But George did. And I remember we saddled him up and I said, How about you ride George and I'll ride Ruby? He didn't care. He climbed on that horse and I have never seen anything like that in my life. That horse went like a rocket straight in the air. He stood on his back legs and he didn't do the, you know, real uh dramatic high-ho silver thing. He did the kangaroo dance all the way down. I mean he was wild. He run against the barn, tried to rub him off, went through the trees trying to knock him off That was the wildest thing I'd ever seen in my life. It took a long time to teach that thing that you're not going to kill me when I get on you. Now you say what'd you say that for? For this reason. When Jesus got on that colt, it bowed its little head in submission and let the master ride. I'm going to tell you why. He knew who he was. Now what I'm about to say, I don't have a whole lot of Bible for, but I got enough to say it, or else I wouldn't. I believe that nature knew who Jesus was. I believe that every blade of grass bowed its head and said, There's my Maker. Every bird took its feathery wings and folded them together when they got in his presence and said, That's my Maker. Every my friend, listen, even the wind and the waves of the sea would obey his voice. When he said stop, they stopped. When he said lay down, they laid down. Nature's maker, when this little donkey was saddled and prepared and the Lord Jesus sat on him, I believe that little thing knew in its being. This is my maker. I'm going to be submissive because and listen to me. God's able to subdue the nature of animal. Look at the lines in Daniel's den. In that lion's den, those lions lost their natural predatory ability and shut their mouths instead of eating what was available. Why? Because God had told them to do it. The God of heaven is still nature's maker. He can make the sun stand still. He can make the sea stop raging He can silence the singing of the birds. He can do anything he wants because he's the one who's made it all. He's created all things. I see nature's maker. Quickly, number two, I see Scripture's fulfiller. Notice what it says there in Matthew chapter 21. Verse number four, all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, might be fulfilled. The Bible in the Old Testament declared the coming of the Lord Jesus thousands of years before he ever came Alfred Edersheim, that's a name you might know. He wrote books about Jewish history and and customs and such. But he declares from his study, and he was a very studious individual, that when Jesus came to this earth, was born and lived and died. That he fulfilled 456 direct prophecies. Now get that for a minute. Think about it. 456 direct prophecies made all the way back yonder from the Garden of Eden through Abraham, Moses , The Old Testament prophets, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Zechariah, all those what we call minor prophets, Malachi and all the rest, Nahum, Habakkuk. He fulfilled 456 direct prophecies about the Lord the Lord Jesus did when he came to this earth Now listen to this. There's a mathematician. His first name was Paul. He said the chances of one person Fulfilling eight. Just eight. Pick out eight. One person fulfilling eight of those prophet prophecies. The chances of that happening is one in one hundred quadrillion. I like that number. Quadrillion. I wish I knew it when I was young. I'd have used it a lot and sounded smarter than I was. One in one hundred quadrillion. You say, what's a quadrillion? A quad one quadrillion is one thousand Trillions. That's just one. So we've got a hundred, thousands, trillions, which make a quadrillion. For the more simple-minded such as me, that's one hundred with fifteen zeros behind it. You say, what'd you sell that for? I said it to say this. It is utterly impossible. For all of these to be fulfilled, except he be the Son of the Living God. 456 prophecies down to the very fact that he would ride a colt into Jerusalem at the cries of the people I mean, listen, we could go through the life of the Lord. And if you've never done that, you ought to do that. It'll help you believe your Bible better These people say, well, it's impossible for uh Jesus to be all that he that he claimed to be, and you say, well, what did he claim to be? Well I don't know. They're just parodying what other people said. This is too important for you to take somebody else's word for it. This is too important for you to be docile about the real details. You need to do the digging yourself, and thank God we live in a country where we've got a Bible. And we can do a little digging and find out that yes, Jesus Christ is the very Son of God. Four hundred and fifty-six prophecies He fulfilled. And here he comes riding on this colt, fulfilling another prophecy. Fulfilling two, actually, from Isaiah and from Zechariah and joined together doing exactly what they said he would do. Why? Because he's God's very son. He's God in the flesh. He is not just a man. He's not a delusional individual. He's not mentally deranged. He's the master. He's God Almighty. He's the Lord of heaven and the King of the earth. And listen, he's the Lord. He's Jesus, the Son of God. My, what a savior. Who is this? He's Scripture's fulfiller. Let me quickly say, number three, he's Israel's king. Verse 5 says, Tell ye the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy king cometh unto thee, meek and sitting upon an ass, and a colt that full of an ass. Here is a king born. Listen, what did the wise men say when they went and asked, where is he that was born king of the Jews? Where is he? The wise men asked the soldiers mockingly, put a crown of thorns on his head, and said, Hail, King of the Jews. Pilate even had an inscription made and put on the cross that said, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. And in Zechariah chapter 9, verse 9, our Bible declares he is the king of the Jews. Let me read the text. Zechariah 9:9 says, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, thy king cometh unto thee. He is just in having salvation lowly and riding upon an ass and upon a colt the foe of an ass. The people did not recognize him. Why? Because of preconceived ideas. He was their king. I believe his offer was legitimate Now, some people don't, and that's fine. But I believe he really offered to be king. And they rejected him. John said it like this: He came unto his own, and his own received him not. You know what they were looking for? A political deliverer. We're down here living under the thumb of Rome. We're Rome's slaves. We're at the bottom of society and it's bad down here. Oh, send us a deliverer. Send somebody that'll chase Rome away and who will defeat the Roman Emperor and who will set us free. And God sends them not a mighty warrior in the sense that they were looking for. God sends them not someone who's going to liberate them politically or liberate them nationally. He sends them a savior. And he comes to them not sitting. By the way, kings in that day wouldn't ride donkeys. How can I say it? That'd be like our president riding a Volkswagen. He don't tool around town in 'em. Or a Chevette, do you remember those cars? Well, somebody said they had two of them. You know there there 's transportation that is fitting to the office. Is that not true? Wasn't that day? Kings in that day, because Israel had picked up the customs of the of the world, really, they picked it up from Egypt, starting with Solomon, who began to multiply horses through Egypt through Jerusalem, through Israel. They would move, the the king would move on a on a horse, a very majestic looking horse. And he would ride and and that that animal, that mode of transportation, would say, This man's important. Remember when they wanted to honor someone back in Esther's day And the king said, Now if I wanted to honor someone, what would I do to him? And old uh Haman said I'd put him on the king's horse. I'd lead him down the town. I'd lead him right through the streets. I'd let everybody know that he's being honored By the steed of the king. He's setting on the mount of the king, and I'd honor him in that way. Boy, don't you know it turned his belly when he said, All right, go get him, saddle him up. Go down and pick up Mordecai. Tell him to get on the back of that horse and you lead him through town. I love how God has a way of humiliating the rotten old devil. And he led him down the street. Jesus doesn't come riding some big fancy majestic animal. He doesn't go get the Roman emperor's most beautiful horse. By the way, the Lord Jesus we're told in Revelation It's going to ride a very regal mount. He's going to come back on a white horse. He could have gone through Jerusalem on that same horse. But he's going to come back on that white horse and so are his people along with him. But understand this, he came into Jerusalem on a donkey. A colt donkey, one that'd never been ridden before, the lowliest of animals you can imagine, the thing that was reserved for servants The servants f messed with the donkeys. They fed them. They rode them. They cared for them. Here comes Jesus. What's he saying? Oh, I'm your king, but I'm not the king you thought See, some of people some people, maybe listen to me right now, you're not saved because of your preconceived ideas. You've heard something about Jesus that somebody's told you, and it's a lie. You didn't find it in the scripture, you didn't find it from the Bible, you found it in a religious group, a teacher, or something like that. I was talking to someone not long ago and And someone knows the truth, and it breaks my heart to see them leave the truth. And they're fine. I said, listen, you do not learn these things from the Bible. You're getting it from other people, influential people, people that are very convincing, people that can make you and listen, we live in a world with people that are that are are are deceptive in the spirit of the last days is a spirit of deception. And there's a lot of people deceived about who Jesus is, and they have a preconceived idea, and they think he's this or they think he's that and their minds are confused. But if you open the Bible, the answers are there. The truth is there. The reality is there. Jesus Christ is not some puppet to man-made religion. He's the king of the earth He's the Lord of glory. He's the one who's in charge. He's on the throne, not men. Nor is religion Please understand me. Here are some people that have got preconceived ideas. He passes by and they don't even know what's right in front of them. Don't even know it. He's right there. Brother, they could reach out and touch him. The king And if I understand it right, everything I read about him, he wasn't opposed to people touching him. He wasn't a king who had a bar uh uh uh uh armor guard around him that said, Don't get near me. One little lady broken down in her body said, If I can just touch a hem of his garment, I'll get some help And she pushed through that crowd and she just barely got to hem of his garment and virtue went from him just like that and she healed. Oh, listen to me this morning. There are people that have preconceived ideas. They're looking for a mighty warrior. They're looking for a great army. They're looking for someone come and conquer the Romans, and here their king comes. Not not in what they thought he would be in. Not robed like they thought he would be robed. Dear friend, understand something this morning. The Lord Jesus, who was riding through Jerusalem, was their only Hope. Let me say it like this. This man riding through Jerusalem, as we've just read in Matthew chapter number 21, is our only hope. He's our only hope. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. His humble presentation defied their preconceived idea. And therefore they rejected him. Instead of saying, who is this and saying, now this is who he is going to be How about let's humble ourselves and say, who is this? and say, now show me. A lot of people miss the truth because they think they know the truth. Their minds are made up. You ever try to teach somebody how to do something they didn't know how to do but they thought they knew how to do it? I think that's why driving is so terrifying. When you teach your children to drive, I don't know what's in a child, but almost every child I I know and I taught two to drive They know how to drive. They've never driven, but they know how to drive. I know how to do this. And then boom. And you're over there praying, oh don't let me die this way I remember trying to teach Sarah how to drive. I was a lot easier, I'll be honest. He would do exactly what I told him. He was almost fearful, and so he would Touch the gas and brake and all just like but Aunt Sarah. When we got in her little truck, she had a little Chevy S tin. And I said, now Sarah, you you put it in gear, keep your foot on the brake, and then just gently let off the brake and press the gas. And so when she put that thing in gear, she let off the brake and she stepped on the gas. And we went barreling down the road like a rocket ship, man. And I'm yelling, stop, stop, stop. So instead of gently putting her foot on the brake, she slammed on the brake. I go from my head against the seat to the end of the windshield I said, this ain't gonna work. I tried to resign three times. Let somebody else teach you. Mama wouldn't do it. Just I was too little. And I said, Lord, please, don't let her kill me. I mean, maybe when I'm old she can do me in, but don't let her do it now. But they knew. I'm afraid there's people sitting in church. Oh, I know that. I've heard that. I know it. Who is he? Who is he, beloved? Who is he, my dear friend? Who is this? Who is this man? Listen, he's not only just nature's maker in Scripture's fulfillment and Israel's king, but he's mankind's Savior. The Bible says, way back there in Zechariah, notice what he said: Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, thy king cometh unto thee. He is just and having salvation. He's mankind's Savior. Listen, dear friend, this king that was hailed king of the Jews would soon be nailed to an old rugged cross. This honored majesty, who should be honored and was honored with the Hosannas and cries of the people, was shown no mercy. Why? For the Son of Man is come. To seek and to save that which was lost. What was he here for? Listen to me, he wasn't here to deliver a nation politically. He was here to deliver people spiritually. He wasn't here to set a people free, a nation free, the Jews free. He was here to set you and me free. Free not from a tyrannical government, but free from the chains of our wicked old self and sin Free from that bondage that comes. Listen, you're born enslaved to the sin, to sin and the devil. Every one of us are born like that. We enter into this world lost, undone, separated, without hope, apart from God. There's no good in us. There's no life in us. We're spiritually dead. The Bible says we're dead in trespasses and sin. And we come into the world like that and we live and then we're confronted with something, the truth. And the truth is, is that Jesus came to seek and to save the lost. Jesus come to make dead people live. Jesus come to set bond people in bondage free. Jesus come to liberate us not from a government, not from a ruling person, but to be set free. From the bondage of sin, from the slavery of Satan. He's come to set you free. People say, well, I'd quit that, but I can't. That's true, you can't I I I've turned my leaf over and I found out nothing changes. I've made my New Year's resolution. I've tried. I I've I've come to a place and I've determined some stuff and I said I'm going to do better and we do worse. You say, what's the answer? Is there any answer? I wish I could tell every person that's shooting their veins full of poison right now. You're not going to find the answer at the end of that syringe. I wish I could tell people that are filling their bellies full of peels and liquid and alcohol and all sorts of things that are destroying their bodies. I wish I could say you're not going to find the answer there. I wish I could tell folks this morning that that that are are are trying to find some sort of release in all the pleasures of life and and and they think if I just get to that stage, if I get to that point Where I own this and I own that and I'm here and I'm I'm comfortable, I I'll I'll be okay and everything will be all right. No, listen to me, friend The only place you'll find peace, and the only place you'll find freedom, and the only place you'll find liberty is in the Lord Jesus Christ. And when He saves you, He sets you free. You may, dear friend, be in great bondage outwardly, but you'll be free, free indeed, on the inside. Salvation doesn't mean it's an easy ride. It just means there's a guaranteed end. There's a guaranteed end, and that's with the Lord. Who is this? He's mankind's Savior. Old A. B. Simpson wrote something years ago, and I want to share it with you. It speaks of the reality of What you and I are faced with right now. And that is this what will you do with Jesus? We're not worried about Please hear me. We're not worried about what you do in Marinathha Baptist Church. As much as we love our church and want you to come here, we're not worried about that We're not worried about whether you like someone. You say, preacher, I don't like you. That's fine. Sometimes I don't even like me. But understand this. It's not about how you feel about me. It's not how you feel about somebody sitting in this building. The question is, what will you do with Jesus? A. B. Simpson said, Jesus is standing in Pilate's hall. Friendless, forsaken, betrayed by all. Hearken! What meaneth the sudden call? What will you do with Jesus? Jesus is standing on trial still. You can be false to him if you will. You can be faithful through good or ill. What will you do with Jesus? Will you evade him as Pilate tried, or will you choose him, whatever? Vainly you struggle from him to hide. What will you do with Jesus? Will you, like Peter, your Lord, deny, or will you scorn from his foes to fly? Daring for Jesus to live or die, what will you do with Jesus? Jesus, I give thee my heart today. Jesus, I'll follow thee all the way. Gladly obeying thee, will you say, This I will do with Jesus But then he says this, what will you do with Jesus? Neutral you cannot be. Someday your heart will be asking, What will he do with me? Everybody sitting here. This preacher standing here. We'll one day stand. And the question will be, what's Jesus going to do with me? And can I tell you something? What you do with him here determines what he does with you there. As many as received him To them gave he power to become the sons of God. Even to them that believe on his name. Friend, receive him. I'm not asking you to join a church or get in the baptismal or do some sort of religious rigor morale. Receive him. By faith, trust the one who went to the cross and paid your sin debt in full. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, who was crucified and buried and rose again, and thou shalt be saved. You shall be saved. Turn to him today and abandon all hope in anything but Christ. Leave all of your little straw men of religion and let it burn up in the smoke. And the flame and listen, l run to the real rock of salvation, the real enduring one, the Lord Jesus, and cry out, Lord, save me. And I'll tell you something. He delights in answering that prayer No man's ever cried, Lord, have mercy and save me that God said, Nope, not you We tend to think that God's a man and he's far from it. There might be men who turn away, but God won't. God will not turn you away. Do you hear me? God will not turn you away. There's mercy for you this morning. There's salvation for you. And it's not in the church, it's not in religion, it's in the Lord. Run to him this morning. If you're not saved , I'm going to say it like this, it's not his fault. He's made a way. He's paid your sin debt. And he'll save you. If you'll but cry out. See, it's very real sitting here in 2026 Understanding that at some point we'll be in eternity. And in eternity, we'll be faced with the reality Jesus is all that he said he is. But it'll be too late then. My message is very simple this morning. If you're not saved, Jesus saves. If you are saved, I just want to say it again, Jesus saves. Who is he? I'll tell you this. He's the one who saved an eight-year-old boy. Who is he? He's the best friend I've ever had. Who is he? He's a shepherd and bishop of my soul. I had a pastor until I was twenty. I've been pastoring since I was twenty years old. I hadn't had a pastor, but I got a pastor. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. Friend, who is he? You answer the question. But answer very carefully and wisely. You say, preacher, I I'll just be honest, I don't know who he is. Can I encourage you to pray something right here? Lord, show me who you are. Just show me. I'm not asking you to make a knee-jerk uh reaction or decision. Show me, Lord. I'm gonna be honest with you. I wanna know. I want to know who you are And and and show me, show me. You know what he'll do? He'll show you. He will. Many of you sitting here prayed that same prayer. Lord, I who are you? You had religion. You pretended to be a Christian. You did a lot of different things. But somewhere you finally said, Lord, who are you? When Saul got saved, who later became Paul, two questions he asked: Who art thou? What wilt thou have me to do? That's two pretty good questions. Who art thou? You know who he is? Then let me ask you this. Have you said, what wilt thou have me to do? What do you want me to do? What am I here for? What's my purpose in life? Who is he? My, what a question. What a question. He's more than just a man riding down the streets of Jerusalem with a crowd singing his praises. Right now, he's God the very God sitting on the throne in heaven. And soon and very soon he's coming. Are you ready? I'd get ready. Let's get ready. As the people of God. The Lord dealing with you about something, then let's pray about it. Let's use these altars. Would you stand, Brother Dow, come quickly with the hymn?