I believe we've been to church singing these beautiful hymns. I want to just send you home with a text of Scripture, Psalm 13 And I want to read the whole psalm and try to answer quickly the question: why do we sing? Why do we sing? Psalm thirteen doesn't sound much like a song to start with. In fact it's a rather uh solemn and somber sort of psalm. Until you get to the end. Psalm 13 begins like this: How long wilt thou forget me, O Lord? Forever? How long wilt thou hide thy face from me? How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? How long shall mine enemy be exalted over me? Consider and hear me, O Lord my God. Lighten mine eyes lest I sleep the sleep of death Lest mine enemy say I've prevailed against him, and those that trouble me rejoice when I am moved. But I have trusted in thy mercy. My heart shall rejoice in thy salvation. I will sing unto the Lord because He hath dealt bountifully with me. Our Father, thank you for your kindness, your word, this church family, and the privilege we've had to sing together tonight. Dear Lord, I pray that you'll just simply help us tonight in a special way from this your word, and we'll give you the glory, for we ask it in Jesus' name. And God's people said. The psalmist David would write this psalm, about as honest a psalm as there is in the whole collection of psalms. David asked some questions that, by the way, there are really no answers to. David is going through a dark place in a trial, and he's saying, Lord, how long will you forget me? Now the truth of the matter is God don't forget his people. But his people often feel like God has forgotten them. David says, forever How long wilt thou hide thy face from me? David is obviously in a place where he feels distant from the Lord. By the way, the Bible says, David himself wrote it. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. David wrote later in that same psalm that he said, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. David would write later and say, That goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. The Lord never leaves his people, but sometimes his people feel like the Lord has left. He goes on and asks another question: how long shall I take counsel in my soul? Having sorrow in my heart daily, he had questions and sorrow, and he had no answer to it. How long shall mine enemy be exalted over me? Now whether David's talking about Absalom or talking about Saul, both would work here as this Psalm David would feel like that the devils win in the day, and rest assured there's a lot of occasions in our lives that we feel like the devil's won. That it seems like that darkness has prevailed and that somehow or another we're on the losing side. But remember this what appears like losing today is going to shine bright tomorrow as a win Because God's people are on the winning side. And David prays, Lord, hear me. And David's prayer gets kind of desperate at this point, and he says, Hear me, Lord, lest I die. I mean he thinks he's gonna die. This is gonna kill him, he said. And then he tells us why he sings. Verse 5, there's a whole change of tone in this psalm. David changes his attitude, changes his outlook, changes his expressions. He's no longer talking about God leaving. He's no longer talking about the enemy prevailing. He's no longer Talking about him dying, he says, Lord, I've trusted in your mercy. My heart's rejoicing in my salvation. Now watch this. I will sing. Oh, he's still got sorrow. I'm sure he's still weeping tears. David's still facing a struggle. It's not over by a long shot. But he said, You know what I'm going to do? I'm going to sing anyhow. I will sing. God's people are about the only people I know that can sing while they're sorrowful. They can sing while they're shedding tears, and they can sing while they're struggling along. But there's something awful powerful about singing. Have you noticed that? Have you noticed there's something powerful about singing unto the Lord? Oftentimes, and this is not where I'm going in the message, but oftentimes in the Bible, God used singing to do great and mighty things. On one occasion he sent a choir to go forward in battle and to lead the charge. You mean a choir? Not an army, not a band of soldiers, not men with swords and spears No, he sent a choir. And as the choir went forth singing, God came down in power and trod the enemy under his foot. That's the way God works. It's often when God's people sing that God sends relief. The relief that is needed for our hearts, the rel relief that is needed for our inner man oftentimes will come when we start to sing. Brother Squire Parsons, who's now in heaven, wrote a little song about singing in the fire. He had sat down by his fireplace and threw a stick of wood in that fire, and there are certain types of wood that will make a n a sound or a noise when they burn. It almost sounds like singing when you burn this. There's a couple of species of wood that will do this. And as that wood began to burn, he said, He watched that flame consume that log and he started hearing this melody. He thought, how like a Christian. You take a Christian and put him in the fire and it will squeeze a song out of his innermost being. Paul and Silas were beaten and put in jail, and at the midnight hour they prayed and sang praises to God. And as they began I like one old country preacher's description, he said they got to singing so well, God was enjoying it so good, he started stomping his foot and made an earthquake down here on earth. Because the earth is his footstool, by the way. And so the earth began to quake and the prison bars opened, and God delivered them through song. My goodness, there is power in singing But why do we sing? Can I just say tonight we sing because God's given us something to sing about? We sing because we have a song. It's it it's not something we have to make. It's like the little bird that the the song sparrow. That's one of my uh one of my favorite uh singing birds, the song sparrow, will jump high up on a limb and he'll begin to sing in the spring of the year the most beautiful song you've ever heard. Why? Because he's got a song inside of him God put a song in that little bird's being. And I'm telling you, if you're saved tonight, God's put a song in you. The psalmist David said he's put praise unto God in our lips. Put that joy in our heart. So why do we sing? Can I give you three real quick thoughts? Number one, we sing because we have confidence in His mercies. Look what he said in verse 5. I have trusted in thy mercy. Psalm 89:1, David said, I'll sing of the mercies of the Lord forever. The mercies of God are equal to every and all thing we'll be called upon to go through. There's saving mercy, pardoning mercy, keeping mercy, restoring mercy, providing mercy. Safety and mercy, listen, there is mercy for every hour. It's the one thing God says brand new every morning. His mercies are new every day. And so every day I've got fresh fodder for my song. I've got a fresh dose of reason to sing. Why? Because God's mercy has met me new each day We sing because we have confidence in God's mercy. I pity these folk that the only confidence they have is in themselves. It'd be an awful sad state to be in to think that all we had to trust in was you and I. But aren't you glad there's one greater and higher and better and stronger and purer and holier and Much more reliable in our Lord, and it's in his mercies we confide, and it's in his mercies we have confidence. Number two, we sing because his delivering care Look what he said. My heart shall rejoice in thy salvation. Now we're New Testament Christians. We hear the word salvation, we immediately think of our soul. We think of our our being born again. But brother, sister, the Old Testament word salvation meant more. Yes, it included that, but it also spoke of God's delivering power, a delivering from the enemy, a deliverer from danger, a deliverer from calamity. David's facing a real enemy, whether it's Saul or Absalom, both wanted him dead. In Absalom's day, his most trusted counselor, Ahithophel, had turned upon him. David was in a place of real, real danger. And he knew it. And listen, he recognized that the only one who could take him through it would be the Lord. And he said, I'm going to sing because my heart will rejoice or shall rejoice in thy salvation. Listen, when God brings you through it, he in mercy can bring you through it. We sing because God's brought us through so much already. When you stop and think about all that the Lord's done, hasn't He delivered you again and again and again? I look out over this congregation seeing people who face death, who face uh uh physical i infirmities, you face all sorts of calamities that have come your way, and yet here you sit still singing. Why? Because God has delivered. And here he said, I'm going to sing because of his salvation. He will deliver me yet. By the way, do you know most of the scriptural songs are a description of God's deliverance? Most of the songs in the Bible tell the tale of what God has done for someone personally. They share what God has delivered them from, what God has brought them through. The first song in the Bible, Moses ' song tells of God's bringing them out of Egypt through the Red Sea, drowning the armies of the enemy, and delivering them. They sing about the manna, they sing about the Water from the rock, they sing about the care of God through the wilderness. They got something to and listen, if you're saved, you've got a reason to sing because God has brought you through. You say, preacher, I don't have no fresh deliverances to tell, but if you're saved by grace, you've got an old story that is good as new every time it's told, because God delivered you. There is a delivering power here. A delivering care of God is the reason we sing. And then let me say one more quickly. His compensating bounty We sing because of his compensating bounty. Verse number six says, I will sing unto the Lord because he hath dealt bountifully with me. By the way, you know how God deals with us? He always deals in the realm of much more. He does much more. Where sin doth abound, grace doth much more abound. When we pray and pray feebly, God in mercy answers mightily. For he alone does above, exceedingly above, all that we could ask or think. All of God's dealings are plenty. He deals in plenty measure. I'm glad God's no miser. He's no miser with grace. He's no miser with mercy. He's no miser with pardon. He's no miser with provision. Everything God does, he just does plenty of. Oh, what a God we serve. When God cares for you, he cares plentifully. He cares bountifully. David, though he's in the midst of a cave, maybe, he's maybe in the forest hiding. David in the midst of struggle and difficulty is recognizing that God's sure been good to him. He's listening that he's sitting there maybe suffering on the outside, struggling on the inside. But he looks around and has to say, God, you've been good to me. You've dealt bountifully with me, and there's no reason for me to think you're going to change course in the middle of the stream. If God has dealt bountifully, he will deal bountifully because he does not change. God deals in plenties Oh friend, listen, we've got a reason to sing tonight. And have you noticed they're all concentrated on him? They're all fixed around him. They're fixed on who he is and what he does. His character and his person. We we sing because of him. If we could just summarize this whole thing and and and shut it down and go to the house, we'd say we sing because of him. He's the reason that we sing. He's the content of our song That's why we love these, and that's why, by the way, these hymns help us. Because they're about Hym. They might be hymns in the form of H-Y-M-N But their hymns in the form of H-I-M when it comes to their content because they're concentrated upon him. He's our song. He's David said he's become my song. He's my song. He's not only the reason I sing, but he's what I sing about. And beloved, tonight if you're you and I are going to sing, we ought to sing because of him. I appreciate what the ch the the uh young people from the academy started us off with. They're singing about him. And I'll tell you something. You couldn't have put together a better hymn sing than what we had to hear tonight because every song was focused on him. Every song extolled the Lord, magnified the Lord, exalted the Lord. That's what it's all about. It's all about Him. You can sing about yourself if you want to. Some of this new music, I you just can't tell. Are they singing about God or their girlfriend? Maybe some some old relationship. I'm glad when I sing these old hymns and I sing what we learn from the Scripture, we're singing something real clear. We know who we're singing about, what we're singing about, and it helps us because it gets our mind back on him. Oh my friend, when you think about that man of sorrows, what a name. No wonder we cry, Hallelujah, what a savior. When you think about one day I will fly away. I got no interest. I'll just tell you, I got no interest in going up in the air. I'm pretty happy down on the ground. But I know this, when God comes in the rapture, if I'm still living, all that fear is gone. All that apprehension about going up will be far, far away. Some of you get older. You know what you learn when you get older? There's something in your body don't like change. Right? And uh you might have climbed a ladder your whole life. I I climbed maybe ten feet off the ground the other day, and I got so dizzy, I thought, what in the world is wrong with me? That never bothered me before. I'm about half afraid if I sat in a deer stand, I might be on the leaves, in the leaves before uh too long. I don't know, but there's something happens to you. But I'll tell you this when the Lord comes And the trumpet sounds, and the dead in Christ rise first, then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord Thank God that for that great hope we have that yes, one day we will fly away. Dear friend, it is all about him. We sing because of him. And I just want to say quickly tonight, if you're not saved, you don't have a song. You might have some sad, woeful song of the world and of your staras, and all of the drowning and all of the despair. But until you meet the Savior, until you trust the Lord Jesus, you can have no song of joy or song of victory or song of peace or song of salvation or song of deliverance. But when you come to Him as a poor, helpless, broken sinner, absolutely stripped of all your righteousness, recognizing that in you dwells no good thing, and saying, Lord, Have mercy on me. There's a salvation that God gives that satisfies to the full and strengthens you on the inside and makes you a brand new creature and puts a song in your mouth, even praise unto our God And if you're not saved, I urge you to be saved. If you're not a Christian, trust Christ today. If you've never been born again, cry out to the Lord. There's mercy to be had. There's a salvation that He freely gives. And dear friend, oh listen, you too can have that song all about him. Father, thank you for your word tonight and the privilege we've had to be here to sing and Praise you. And then Lord, open our Bibles and hear your still small voice. Father, I pray if there be one lost here tonight, that you would save them. That they would see their great need and turn to Jesus. I pray, Heavenly Father, over these who are your people, and pray that we'd just be tender to your dealings with us. Draw us closer to you. Help and strengthen us, Lord. And Father, thank you for the song you've given us. Thank you, Lord, that it's it's not a song of what we once were. I'm glad it's a song of what you've graciously done. Help us, Lord, I pray as a church to ever sing about thee. May that song just burn. Lord, I appreciate tonight just the singing from the heart. Lord, that wholehearted singing, that giving of ourselves in song of praise to God. Father, how we thank you that we had that privilege to do so this evening. And Lord, I pray you will receive these praises. In such a way that you'd be pleased. And perhaps this evening has brought pleasure to thy heart, Lord. Would you be glorified?