In 1924, Pastor Peter Philpot led Leela Long to the Lord at Chicago at special meetings he was holding. And then six years later at his church in Los Angeles, she came up to the platform afterwards to thank him for leading her to the Lord and for how wonderfully her life had been changed and that she was now using her musical talent for the Lord. She gave him a copy of a song that she'd written right after she got saved. And uh he read the song and he said, Well, what was the inspiration for this song? She says, well, I heard of a mission, a medical missionary in China, that every time after he treated patients for their medical needs, he shared Christ with them. And uh one day a very old woman had traveled many days to the clinic, and he took care of her medical need, and as always, he shared Christ with her, and she was wonderfully saved Well, quite a few days later, the old lady came back again and uh he said what do you have a medical problem? And she says, no, no, I don't have a medical problem. She said, I really came to ask you just one question. And she said He saved me. He lives in my heart. And he's made me so happy. But sir, I've forgotten his name. The missionary said to the woman, his name is Jesus. And she bowed low as Orioles do and thanked the missionary for telling her his name. And as she was leaving, he heard her repeatedly saying as she walked away: Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. She traveled all that way just to learn his name. And she said, that's what gave me the idea for this song. There have been names that I have loved to hear, but never has there been a name so dear to this heart of mine, as the name divine, the precious, precious name of Jesus. Jesus is the sweetest name I know, and he's just the same as his lovely name. And that's the reason why I love him so. Oh, Jesus is the sweetest name I know. There is no name in earth or heaven above that we shall give such honor and such love. as the blessed name let us all acclaim that wondrous, glorious name of Jesus Jesus is the sweetest name I know, and he's just the same as his lovely name And that's the reason why I love him so. Oh Jesus is the sweetest name I know. And someday I shall see him face to face, to thank and praise him for his wondrous grace. which he gave to me when he made me free, the blessed Son of God called Jesus Jesus is the sweetest name I know, and he's just the same as his lovely name. And that's the reason why I love him so. Oh, Jesus is the sweetest name I know. I want to mention before we get in the scripture, if you're listening to the broadcasting Haven't heard Vacation Bible School starts on tomorrow, Monday at 6 o'clock, and it is for ages 5 to 12 this year. And so if you have a young person or know of a young person between those ages of 5 to 12, we would sure love to have them come be apart. of our vacation Bible school. Again, it starts at 6 o'clock, will be finished at 8 o'clock. And that'll be Monday night, Tuesday night, and Wednesday night as well. So please keep that in mind. Well, let's open our Bibles, please, to Revelation, and we're going to chapter 9 this evening. Revelation chapter 9. I'm going to read the entire chapter. This evening, but we'll probably only cover the first half. Revelation chapter number nine. We have come now to that fifth angel, that fifth trumpet, it is one of the three woe trumpets. And so it's distinguished and set apart from the first four. And I believe that has to do with the timing. You'll notice that the vowel judgments that were poured out were divided four and three. And the trumpet judgments are divided four and three. And I believe they're divided that way because you have those first uh trumpets and vials being poured out in the first part of the tribulation, and then you have the vials and the trumpets being blown in the last part of the tribulation. So it's divided up But nevertheless, Revelation chapter 9 starts this way, and the fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star fall from heaven under the earth. And to him was given the key of the bottomless pit. And he opened the bottomless pit, and there arose a smoke out of the pit, as the smoke of a great furnace. And the sun and the air were darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit. And there came out of the smoke locusts upon the earth. And unto them was given power, as the scorpions of the earth have power. And it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree But only those men which had not the seal of God in their foreheads. And to them it was given that they should not kill them, but that they should be tormented five months. And their torment was as the torment of a scorpion when he striketh a man. And in those days shall men seek death and shall not find it, and shall desire to die, and death shall flee from them. And the shapes of the locusts were likened unto horses prepared unto battle. And on their heads were, as it were, crowns like gold, and their faces were as the faces of men. And they had hair as the hair of women, and their teeth were as the teeth of lions. And they had breastplates, as it were, breastplates of iron. And the sound of their wings was as the sound of chariots of many horses running to battle. And they had tails like unto scorpions, and there were stings in their tails, and their power was to hurt men five months. They had a king over them, which is the angel of the bottomless pit, whose name in the Hebrew tongue is Abaddon, but in the Greek tongue hath his name Apollyon. One woe is past, and behold there come two more woes, two woes more hereafter And the sixth angel sounded, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar which is before God, saying to the sixth angel, which had the trumpet, Loose the four angels which are bound in the great river Euphrates. And the four angels were loosed, which were prepared for an hour and a day and a month and a year, for to slay the third part of men. And the number of the army of the horsemen were two hundred thousand thousand. And I heard the number of them And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and them that sat on them, having breastplates of fire and of jasinth and brimstone And the heads of the horses were as the heads of lions, and out of their mouths issued fire and smoke and brimstone. By these three was the third part of men killed, by the fire, and by the smoke, and by the brimstone, which issued out of their mouths. For their power is in their mouth and in their tails. For their tails were like unto serpents and had heads, and with them they do hurt. And the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues yet repented not of the works of their hands, that they should not worship devils and idols of gold and silver and brass and stone and of wood Which neither can see, nor hear, nor walk. Neither repented they of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornication, nor of their thefts. I'm going to stop reading there as we've read Revelation chapter number nine. And we want to look at these woe trumpets. We're going to look at one of the three, the Lord willing tonight. And I want you to see this satanic unleashing. Because that's what's being described here in Revelation chapter number nine. Let's pray together and ask the Lord's help and wisdom here. Father, we come in Jesus' name and are grateful we can open our Bibles We confess to you tonight, O Lord, that these words on this particular chapter, Lord, stir our hearts in so many ways. But Lord, would you help us just now to see the truth? Help us to walk in the truth. Lord, help us to remember the truth and rejoice in the truth, and yet help us to receive warning from it as well. Lord, I pray that you would just do the work that's needed in every heart for the great glory and honor and praise of your holy name. We thank you for the matchless name of Jesus. That name, neither is there salvation given among men. There's no other name like this name. There's no other name like this name that even the demons in hell shudder. For it is the name over which they're ruled by. And I pray tonight, Lord, that you would help us to make much of that name, even as we study these passages about the powers of darkness. Lord, we love you and thank you for your love for us. Hide me behind the cross. Help me to lift up the Lord Jesus. We plead thy blood and pray that you'll bind the strong man and spoil his goods. And God get glory out of our time together, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. And God's people said, Amen. Well, to study this, we've got to go back to Revelation chapter 8, and let me call your attention to verse number 13 Remember the fourth s the uh uh fourth trumpet has already sounded, and then in verse 13 we're told that I beheld, John beheld. And heard an angel flying through the midst of heaven. Notice what he said with a loud voice Woe, woe, woe to the inhabitors of the earth by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three angels which are yet to sound One woe for every trumpet that was yet to be blown. There's a warning being issued here by this angel that What you have seen pale uh i i it pales in comparison to what you're about to see. The judgment, I remember it was a pretty catastrophic thing, the earth has been touched. Every part of the earth that brings life has been touched by the judgment of God. We've had the oceans touched, we've had the rivers touched, the underground flows of water, we've had the trees and the grass, all of that's been touched, the sun, the moon, the stars, all of that's been touched by the judgment of God And the earth, if you will, is reeling from that judgment, and the angel says, Whoa, whoa, whoa. Woe in the sense that what you're about to see is going to be even worse. Now I have to be honest, I read these words with just just awe. I read them with with some sort of trembling in my heart to say these things are horrible. What's coming is unimaginable. And I like how Mr. Spurgeon gives his introduction to Revelation. He noted this. He said, these things are written Not for us to lead us into speculation, but for practical purposes. They're not to gratify our curiosity, but to stimulate our watchfulness. The main objective is to keep us constantly on the lookout. And really, a lot of times when we study prophecy, I think we get bogged down in the details that we don't know all the things we're talking about. I think sometimes we try to say, well, I know what that means when ri in reality we don't know what it means. It just simply says what it says and we've got to take it for what it says. and believe what it says because it's in the Word of God. But to be able to say now, I'm telling you, I know what that stands for and that stands for, the reality is we can't be that dogmatic with prophecy on many occasions. Now I can be that dogmatic about heaven because the Bible makes that clear. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Now we can be dogmatic there, because it's there, it's there plain black and white, and it's very clear. But now we're looking at things that are very difficult, I think, sometimes for us to understand I believe these last three trumpets or these last three woe trumpets are being blown in that latter part of the tribulation. Woe, and remember this in Revelation, you can attach it, we're not going to do it tonight for sake of time, but every time you see woe in the Revelation, it is associated with satanic activity. Whoa, the devil's working. Woe, the devil's unleashed. Whoa? Satan is active. He's doing something. And of course these woes bear his trademark. In John chapter 10 and verse number 10, Jesus warned us that the thief, that's the devil, that's Satan, he cometh not but for to steal. Kill and destroy. Now that's what he does. That's all that he does. That's what his fingerprints are, everywhere he touches. To steal, he steals, he kills, and he destroys. One writer, one old writer said, Satan is unleashed with black rage boiling in his heart. Now you think about where we're at at this stage. The church is gone. The Spirit of God's been withdrawn in the in the church. The church is taken out of here. He who now leteth will let until he be taken away. Well I believe that's a reference to the Holy Spirit. And when the Holy Spirit goes, guess who's going with him? Everybody whom he lives in. Gone, we're out of here. And there's no restraining force on this earth. I don't think we can imagine tonight or fathom just how bad it's going to be when there's nothing holding the devil back. When he's given leash, when he's given leadway. Now unrestrained, Satan holds temporary sway over the earth. There's two things in the chapter we've read. Number one, we see in verses one to twelve, we can divide these this way. We see the satanic beasts. And then in verses 13 to 21, we see the satanic battle. We see the satanic beasts and the satanic battle. It's interesting to me that the Lord takes so much time in this one trumpet to give us so much detail about these creatures. In fact, we're told 13 things about them. This is the most details that we have about any other thing. It's interesting to me that when he speaks of them, well, just note some of these with me, would you? First off, you see their origin. Look with me in verses 1 and 2. It says, That fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star fall from heaven under the earth, and to him was given the key of the bottomless pit. And he opened the bottomless pit, and there arose a smoke out of the pit, as the smoke of great furnace, and the sun and the air were darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit. So their origin is this bottomless pit. Someone has said it's the ancient penitentiary for evil spirits. You think that the devil's got some powers loose on the earth now? You haven't seen anything. And he does. I'm going to say more about that later, but I want you to notice where these come from. These satanic beasts, they come from that bottomless pit. They're released for this period of time. Not only do I see their origin, but look at their operation. Verse 3, and there came out of the smoke, locusts upon the earth. And unto them was given power, as the scorpions of the earth had power. Now these beasts had power. That was their operation. You say, who give them power? The devil did. They're satanically energized. Now, I know a lot of this seems sort of hard to wrap your head around, and it's hard for me to get my head around to be honest with you. But the reality is the Bible records it and goes to great pains to give us details and says that these things that come up out of this pit, they're given a power, and that power comes from the devil. Remember this, the devil has power. He is powerful. The Bible tells us that that that our Lord is all powerful, but the devil is powerful. The devil is not a cartoon character. The devil is not a figment of man's imagination. He's not an allegorical individual who represents evil. He's an active living being. who 's bent on the damnation and destruction of mankind. The Bible makes it clear here that that that He's given power. They're given power from Satan. They're operations. But then notice their orders in verse number four. And it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth. Now you say, Preacher, I thought you said the grass had been destroyed, and it had. The Bible says in that uh that last vowel we read about, or excuse me, the trumpet. First trumpet we read about, that he destroyed a third part of the trees and and and he burnt up all the grass. Well, there's been enough time for the grass to come back. So there's obviously grass growing again. There's been a span of time for for it to I mean, you know, uh the grass, you can go out here and burn apart a portion of the grass. But you go out here, Ben 's been fighting grass in our parking lot this year, and and it seems like he can spray it today and it's green tomorrow. It comes right back. And so the the the judgment of God has fallen and touched the grass, but yet now it has grown back, and he tells these these creatures that they they're not to touch the grass of the earth or any green thing or any tree. But watch this, only those men which have not the seal of God in their foreheads. Now that seal refers back to that hundred and forty-four thousand. Who've been sealed by the Lord, and he says you you're not to touch them. They're given orders. It seems that they are still, even though they're operating in an unleashed manner They're still under the merciful hand of God. And God says, this is what you do, and no further. I want to tell you tonight, just remember this as we study this portion. It's really a dark part of the scripture as far as what's happening here. But God is still in charge of the devil. Don't forget that He still is on his leash, he still is under his control. I love, I'm reading through Job, or I'm about finished now with Job I was listening to it yesterday, and I like replaying that part where it says that he had to ask permission to touch Job It just encourages me to remember that the devil's just not free to do what he wants to do. Now it feels like that sometimes. It sure feels like sometimes he's getting his way. But the truth of the matter is he's got to get permission from God to touch God's little people. He just don't do what he wants to do. And thank God for that. Well we'd be in trouble, wouldn't we? You know, I've you ever watched, you know, I used to watch these old barn cats when I was milking, and uh they'd catch a little mouse and they'd play with it. And listen, I don't like mice no more than you do, but I felt sorry for the little old thing. I thought, man, if I was a mouse, I wouldn't be wanting to be in the claws of that rotten creature. And he's smacking them back and forth, and then he'd pick him up and you'd let him go just a little bit. I watched one one morning. I said, you know what? I had me a water hose there. I said, I'm gonna teach that cat a lesson And uh I I you know, cats don't like water. I don't know why they don't like water. But uh boy he shot about twenty foot in the air, that water hose. uh just lit his little world up and that mouse run away and I said, run buddy, run, run, run. You and I aren't like look look the devil is not allowed to do to us what a cat does to a mouse You're not in his crutches just getting played with like some toy. You're a child of the living God. You belong to Jesus Christ. He rules in your life. And anything that comes your way comes by divine permission. And God says, I allow it. And if God allows it, he's got some sort of purpose for it. You rejoice in that and thank God that we have such a Savior. But I see the orders that are given here. But then notice the ordeal that begins in verse 5. And to them it was given that they should not kill them. So there's the boundary. You can't kill them. You're not going to be able to kill them. But that they should be tormented, notice this, five months. And their torment was the torment of a scorpion when he striketh a man. And in those days shall men seek death and shall not find it, and shall desire to die, and death shall flee from them. What an ordeal! It says that they're given this power to torment five months. You know, five months is the natural life cycle of an actual locust. And so what is it, May when they first erupt and on through to what is it be September? That five months. And I I believe, look, if it it this is a literal book, and I think if if it makes literal sense, then we take it that way. And so five months these things are allowed to go about and they're tormenting men. They're tormenting with a sting. There used to be this program on TV, these guys, there's two of them I think, and they'd go around and try to get these animals to bite them, these all sorts of things. And and you know, I seen a fella one time he he he had a a scorpion sting him and man the pain that that you can see on that guy's face. Now I don't know why you do that. I think there'd be a better way to get on TV. Uh but uh I guess if talent's small, you gotta do what you gotta do. And so they're s getting stung by all these things. Can you imagine what this is gonna be like? These are not normal creatures These are satanically energized. And as they come about, they're stinging men. And the Bible says men are going to want to die. Do you know sometimes death is a merciful occurrence? I mean in a situation here they're suffering and they're being tormented and they're saying, if I could just get out of this by death. Notice that they're not permitted to die. Death flees from them. Ah, what an ordeal. Then I want you to see quickly their ornaments. And these are quite lengthy, and he describes them beginning in verse 7, going down to verse 10. He tells us in terminologies that we can understand and and and and language that we can somewhat comprehend, but in reality when you try to put all this together it's almost unimaginable what they look like. He starts by giving us their shape. He says, in verse 7, their shape of the locusts were likened to horses prepared unto battle. That's what they look like. They're they're shaped like a horse. They're these creatures, again, these demonic creatures that come up out of the bottomless pit, and he said they look like horses. Why that shape? Well The horse in Revelation signifies war and it signifies defiance. Here is a defiant creature. That's raging among men. Shape of a horse. Notice next, the Bible says that he had on his head, as it were, crowns like gold. They had gold crowns. And again, that gold signifies a conqueror. We're going to see that later on in Revelation, the conquering one with gold, but that gold represents conquering. And here's what these creatures are going to do. They're going to conquer. They're going to conquer everything in their path, except those with the seal. As they go forth Notice what it says about their faces. Their faces were as the faces of men. Are you trying to put all that together? Horse -like body? Head with a crown of gold, face like a man. That face like a man, I believe, speaks of intelligence. God created intelligent beings when he made man And so here we find that they have that intelligence, that clever cunningness as they go forth. And then notice this, it says they had hair as the hair of women. And when you study that in the scriptures, hair, the hair of the woman is the glory of her head. It's her glory. It represents beauty. These things are going to have an attractiveness to men There's going to be an attraction here, a seductive attraction. And then it speaks about their teeth. Notice what it said. Their teeth were as the teeth of lions. Now, what does a lion do? He rends and tears with his teeth. Ever watch these nature shows and a lion catches something? And you know, he don't have to pull out a steak knife like you do. He just simply begins to rip and tear. He's got those massive teeth. And then notice they have a breastplate, as it were, breastplates of iron. And here they are, they come forth, iron in the Bible is a symbol of judgment, and here these beasts come out, they have no mercy. They're judging all. They're judging all. And then notice he speaks about their wings. And he says the sound of their wings was as the sound of chariots of many horses running to battle. Those wings. I think it was they say historically that we have record of nineteen fifty-one and two uh was the greatest invasion of locusts that we know of on the earth. It happened in the Middle East. And there were three countries that they came through. I believe it was through Turkey and Iran and Iraq. And they destroyed in a five-month period, they destroyed every living thing, plant-wise, in their path. And they said when those when those creatures took off That it gave a distant rumble. And you could hear them as they went forth. And the Bible's making it clear here that what these things are doing is swift and sure and strong And it can be heard among the multitudes as they make their way across the land. Then notice it describes their tails. It said they had tails like unto scorpions, and there were stings in their tails, and their power was to hurt men for five months. So for five months, their sole aim is to injure men. Now, by the way, that ought to tell you something about the devil. That's what he's out to do. He's a thief. He he steals, he kills, he destroys. He's that's all he's out for. That's exactly what he's doing, and he's unleashed, and he's doing it in a diabolical way as these creatures are turned loose and men are tortured or tormented as the word says. Then you'll notice in verse number eleven, their overseer. As we move away from their ornaments, we see their overseer, and he's named in verse eleven. In fact, the Bible tells us that they had a king over them, which is the angel of the bottomless pit. And I don't believe this is the devil. The name is given both in Hebrew and Greek. Why? Because both the Jew and the Gentile are going to be affected here. But what it does teach me is that God, that the devil has an organized host. The devil's not a dummy. He's a he is an organized enemy. And so they have someone, they have an overseer. Wasn't it Solomon who said in the Proverbs that the locusts have no overseer? These do. And we know his name. We'll use his Greek name, Apollyon. And I know there's a lot of fanciful reading about this and and interpretations of this. But here's what we know plainly from the Word of God that his sole responsibility is to oversee these creatures that have been unleashed on the earth. And he oversees their destructive path, gives them orders. Listen, the devil is not something to play with. For five months their reign of terror begins, and there's untold suffering on this earth. I'm going to tell you something. I read this again today and I thought, thank God I'm going to be in heaven. I'm glad I'm saved, by the grace of God, I know that when Jesus comes I'm going with him. I'm grateful I don't have to sit here and worry and fret and think maybe I'm gonna be there. Thank God I won't be there. You say, preacher, what should I take from this? Let me say one more thing. Verse 12 says, One woe is past. One woe is past. Five months of unimaginable torment. And behold, there come two more woes. Two woes more hereafter. Isn't that a tragic fault? As if it couldn't get much worse, it's getting ready, dude. These satanic beasts are going to be replaced with a satanic battle. And in this satanic battle, a third of the earth is going to be destroyed. A third of the human beings are going to be killed. Now they tried to die in these five months and couldn't. They wanted to die and couldn't. It was impossible. Death fled. By the way, God's still in charge of death. He speaks life and he speaks death. It's pointed out to men wants to die. Now look, I'm thankful for doctors, nurses, and all the medicine and capabilities we've got in this modern day. I was watching something the other day about historically uh how they used to do dental work and I said, Thank God I didn't live then. I I'm I'm telling you something, that was a that was torture I I praise the Lord for Novocaine and whatever else they use or the the stuff you breathe that you know makes you just be happy about the whole situation when there's nothing to really be happy about But the reality is that my life and my death is not in my hands, a doctor's hands, a nurse's hands. My life and my death is in the hands of Almighty God. Now they're gonna they're gonna want to die, but they can't. Now when that battle ensues, there's gonna be a whole bunch who will die Now, can I give you just four very simple practical observations out of this? We're talking about a satanic beast that are unleashed on the earth. I've already stated this, but I think it needs to be said again, the devil is real. The devil is real. Folks, the greatest ploy the devil's le unleashed on man is to portray himself as a figment of man's imagination To reveal himself like some kind of play toy or some sort of cartoon character, that's really not a big deal. He's just sort of that mean little thing that sets on his shoulder and says, do something bad. I've got news for you. He's real. He's deadly. What we learn in the Revelation is that he's a very real foe. He hates God. He hates God's people. He hates everything good and he opposes and fights and goes against. Everything that God's for, the devil's against. You still see old Dr. Jim Whitted, he's about that tall and like a little stick of dynamite. He was our missions teacher. He had been a missionary over in Scotland for years and had to come home to take care of his mother and his mother-in-law. And I remember him saying, Me and the devil, you know, he was a uh I say an ex-marine, there's no such. They're just Not an active service. He was not an active service marine. And he he said, Me and the devil are in the Mutual Admiration Society together. I hate him and he hates me. And then he would stamp his little foot and he said, It's going to be that way to the end. Thank God for that. I got to see Doctor Whited before he went home to heaven and he dementia had really done its number on his mind. I sat in his home. I said, Dr. Whitdy, do you remember who I am? And he said, I'm trying, son. Tell me something. And I just started to speak and I said, I'm in, he said, you're in Canada. I said, yes, sir. He said, You're that groom's boy that milk cows and come to school. I said, That's me. Oh, he said, here's what he said, you still hate the devil, son? I said, I sure do. Good, he said, I do too. He said, Oh, but I still love the Lord. I said, Oh, yes, sir, I do too, and I'm hoping to love him more. Listen, the devil is real. Don't go to sleep on your watch, church, because he's real. He still walketh about seeking whom he may devour. He's still looking for an opening. He's still looking for a kink in the armor. He's still looking for an opportunity, friend. The devil is real. Number two, can I say this? I'm going to say it. Lord help me, please. The devil's nothing to play with. The devil is nothing to play with. Now listen, please, I want to help you tonight. The devil is very active in our culture. And he's utilizing all sorts of tools to win a multitude. And maybe in your home. If your children have unsupervised Unoversaw access to a phone or the internet, you'd be better off to put them in a box of rattlesnakes. Because they'd be safer in there than they would be out there. You say what are you talking about? I'll tell you what I'm talking about. The devil's using the mediums. of this world, and I'm talking about the internet, and I'm talking about these these social media sites in all sorts of ways, he's using those places to woo a generation. And the sad thing is, mom and daddies don't have enough sense. You say, but preacher, I I check on their activity. I'm gonna tell you something, they're smarter than you. And I'm not insulting you. I'm just telling you they're smarter than you and they know how to make their activity invisible. I tell you what, if I was raising kids again right now, they'd be 18, 19, 20 years old before they had a phone. Amen. Because I'll tell you, they unless they're working and need to get a hold of somebody, they ain't got no business being on the internet. All it takes is just one misprint, misspelled word, and they're down a rabbit hole. And the devil's just drawn come on. Huh? He's real. Don't play with the devil. You say, preacher, it's harmless. Yeah, it's about as harmless as petting a snake. It's not as harmless as shooting your veins full of poison. Because the devil knows, look, the devil knows, he's no fool. He knows exactly how to get a hold of a generation of people, and he's doing it all across this land. You better be careful. You better be careful. Boy, I'll tell you, you've got to fight for your children. And you better stand guard on the door and say, hey, there's some things And m Mother Dad, can I help you? Maybe you're listening. I don't know. Uh maybe you listen to the broadcast. Let me just say this. Mother or Dad, it's not your job to be their friend and make them happy. It's your job to keep them safe. And there are things you know that'll hurt them that they may want to do. Joe is a boy, he is he is fascinated with the electric fence in the backyard. I don't know what grew into that thing and I'd say, Don't go there. Just a little thing. Eat toddle down there. Look at it. I'd say don't touch it And he wanted to do it all the time. I said, son, that thing will burn you. It'll hurt you. It was a a horse fence and it had a little bit more electricity than these regular fences. It it encircled an entire marsh. It went for miles and miles around through there And I knew that thing had some juice in it. Don't touch it. And he'd look and look at it, look at me. And one day I just honestly I got tired of telling him. I said, well, there's one way he's going to learn. He was barefoot and the grass is wet. And I'll never forget. He reached up and touched it, and buddy, he looked like a 4th of July firecracker. And that's probably what's wrong with him now, Emily. I'm sorry. I'm sure it short circuited something very important in that boy's head But I'll tell you what, when he turned loose, he runs so fast up the yard. He said, I mean he was screaming and looking at that thing. Never touched it again. It's a long time before we get him to go halfway down the backyard. Nothing to play with. You can get over a little electric fence shock. But when the devil puts his fangs in your soul, it's a whole lot harder to get over. I'm telling you, friend, listen to me tonight. The devil's using pornography. He's using the interest in the occult. It's not accident that some of the most watched television shows have to do with contacting spirits Speaking to those in the other world, so to speak. And all it is is demonic activity. And yet we we we think, oh, it's just entertainment. It's isn't it cute Will it be cute when the devil's ravaged that little boy or girl and stuck his claws into their person and dragging them down that road of destruction? Dear friend of mine down in uh i in Alabama, hi his daddy was an alcoholic, and you know how that started? His granddaddy made moonshine and he thought it was funny to pour a little bit in that four-year-old's mouth and watch him just wobble around and a and uh play around from the after effects and throw up and get sick. And they did him that way. They said, oh, isn't little Tommy cute Well, little Tommy was cute. Well, what happened is little Tommy became a drunk. Little Tommy shot four men. Little Tommy beat his wife. Little Tommy beat his children. Wasn't cute then. It wasn't cute when little Tommy would brag brag and say, I'm the devil's disciple. He was a wicked and a vile man. It wasn't cute anymore. Oh, it started out innocent. And you know a lot of times that's how the devil works. He he says, Oh, isn't it cute, these little children, they're over here making these TikTok videos and and they're watching this and they're watching that. Isn't that cute? Yeah, it's cute. for now. But listen, there's coming a day when it's taken them further than you ever thought they would. And I'm telling you something, I'm preaching to a generation of kids They'll sit and look straight through you like they're uh like they're not even home. It's because their minds have been boggled by all the media they've been bombarded with, and their souls are nearly unreachable except for the mighty power of God. They're not tender like they used to be. You that work with children know I'm telling you the truth. They don't have that sensitive spirit that they once had. Why? Because the devil's building the fortifications around their soul. Mother and daddy, you understand something, the devil is nothing to play with. The occult, all of these things. You know, people talking about I see Christian people sometimes. And and they talk about, well, the stars are in my favor. I'd rather have the one who made them in my favor than those. The one who hung them up there is the one I'm interested in. I'm not worried about all that other stuff Friend, that's the devil's doors. That's just the doorway into the devil's activity. I don't need to read my horoscope. I got my Bible to read I don't need to look to the things of this world and try to get answers. I got a book and I got the Holy Ghost and I'm saved by the grace of God. Look, I've got all that I need in Him. You be careful, don't be playing with the devil. Well, you say, Preacher, I'm I don't like that. Well, God bless you. I love you anyhow. And you need to leave that stuff alone. And you need to double sure, make sure your children don't get sucked down that pipe that the devil's trying to pull them through with. He'd just as soon take them to hell off the pew of Marinatha Baptist Church as he would anywhere else. He'd just as soon damn them and destroy them right here as he would anywhere else. In fact I think he gets greater delight in doing that in the house of God, taking down God's children's children, so that he can say, Look, I got 'em. Boy, you better fight for them. You better realize that the devil's nothing to play with. Drugs and alcohol, all they do is open doors. They're open doors. They're open doors. They're saying, hey devil, I want to play with you. And I'll tell you what, the devil don't play fair. Years ago I worked a construction outfit and we had guard dogs. These things were trained in Germany. And uh the man who took care of them was a cousin to my to me and and um And I'd go out there sometimes, he'd feed them, they fed them raw meat. These things were these were beasts, I mean, kept them in these field cages, and when we'd leave at night, this man would come around, he is the last one out. And he'd left them out. He was the only person they'd listened to. And they looked so fr I said to him, I said, I I'd like to pet him. He said, Go ahead. I said, what do you mean go ahead? He said, if you don't want like that arm in hand, he said, go ahead and bet them. He said they'll take it right off the arm. He said they are deceiving in their looks. He said these things are bred, trained, to kill. If you get in here and try to steal a piece of equipment We're gonna be calling the ambulance and the coroner in the morning to get you out. That's why they're here. That's their job. Listen to me. The devil makes his ways look attractive. Look like a harmless little puppy. Look like something that won't touch you. But listen to me He'll destroy you. Look, Solomon, wisest man in the world , devil got him. Samson, strongest man in the world. Devil got him. David, a man after God's own heart. No match for the devil. I'm just saying that the devil is nothing to play with. Oh listen. May God help us to see the severity and the seriousness of what the devil's trying to do with the generation of our kids. And build your face. You say, well, preacher, my kids won't fit in. Good. Yeah, yeah, pretty happy. I don't grab the hog pen and say, Sure, I'd like to be a hog. Why do we want to water in the filth? With the doomed and the damned and the dis those that are heading destruction. Build your fences high. Well, my children, I I I want my children to be normal. You mean you want them to be like this world? God help us. Search our hearts. May the Holy Ghost make us personal. I'll tell you there's a generation of kids heading to hell 'cause some mamas and daddies sat on a church pew and went home and said, Now, you know that preacher, he's just a little old fashioned and And he gets worked up about things every now and again. You just go do your thing. And they went and did their thing and they're doing their thing and they're heading for hell. Doing their thing. With the blessing of a mom and daddy who's saved but didn't have no discernment. The devil's nothing to play with. Let me say quickly, number three, there is one greater. There is one greater. Greater, 1 John 4, 4. Greater. Let me say it again. Greater is He. that is in you than he that is in the world. I'm glad he's still greater. He's greater than the devil. He's greater than all the demons of hell All these creatures that come out of the bottomless pit, he's greater than the overseer down there. He is greater than them all. He is greater. Thank God we can look to him, rest in him, trust in him, find refuge in him. That's why my Bible says he's not given me a spirit of fear, but of power and love and a sound mind. Thank God for one who's greater. You say, preacher, how are we going to give food? This world's like a minefield, and it is, but there's one greater than this world. There's one greater than this minefield, there's one greater than all the challenges, there's one greater than all the trouble, there's one greater than all the opposition. country and yet God will bring his children through victoriously because he is greater. I can still hear Dr. Sexton Sr. say, he said if a red worm can crawl through a barnyard and come out slit and shiny on the other side. Then surely God can take you as a Christian through the filth of this world and bring you victorious on heaven's sweet shore. He sure can. He's able. Why? Because he's greater You say, I don't know if I can withstand all the pressure. He's greater. He's greater. I know it's Father's Day. Let me just say this. Father's praying God will give you a backbone like a saw log A backbone that'll say, Children, listen, this is wrong, we're not doing it no more. They may cry, pout, fuss, not s not uh you know, stomp their little feet. They may not say, I'm not gonna do this, that, the other. Just let 'em get it all out. They're still smaller than you. Amen. Just let them get it all out and then say we're still gonna do it, whether you like it or not, cause it's right. You hear me? Because it's right We need some fathers with backbones again that says, hey, this is wrong. We're not doing that. It's not coming in my home. That junk's not going to be a part of my family. I'm going to protect them. And by the way, some of the greatest pressure you'll face will be some Christian brothers and sisters. And they'll say, Well, you're being a little strict, aren't you? We made some decisions when Sarah was born, and there were dear people dear to me who said, look, you're taking this a little too far. And said, well, you know, you're going to turn out like one of them weird people. You know. And grant you, we probably are sort of weird. That's just part of the course. But the reality is, there are some things I'm glad I did then, now I look back and say, thank God. There's a lot of stuff that didn't like it. I tell you something personal. Sis Sarah sent me a text early this morning. She said, Dad, thank you for making me mad. Now if you know Sarah, you know. I don't have to say no more. Say thank you for making me mad. Thank you for making me do things I didn't want to do. Thank you for that. She's thirty what? How old is she, Mom? Thirty-one? Something like that. Boy, she's getting old. I don't know what's happening to us, but she's getting up there. Thirty-one years old. Hmm. Anyway Now she sees. And she's getting ready to have one of her own. I said, God please don't let it be like her. But give her enough grace if it is to have a backbone that says you ain't gonna act like that. I'm gonna tell you something, church, the battle's worth it. The battle's worth it. It'll be a battle. It'll be a battle. Now I hope you can smile. I love Sarah. She knows I'd say that if she's sitting here, you know that. And I'm just joking, but there are a lot of things, friend, that are real. You you th this battle's worth it. This battle's worth it Protect them kids. Don't let the devil get in your house. And if that means you can't manage your internet, cut the stupid thing off. It's a whole lot better to be in touch with God than it is with the w world wide web. Lord help us. Number four, and I'm through, stay close to Him Just stay close to the Lord. I'm talking about things I'm observing as I look here at at what the devil's doing and going to do in the days to come. You see, right now he's veiled He's got his charming face on. Right now he's hiding behind the mask. Right now he's the lure. He don't look like all that I'm describing in Revelation 9. But the day's going to come when the mask is gone and and when the uh the the portrayal is put aside and what he really is is going to be unleashed And I want to remind you tonight that the safest place is close to God. The Bible says, I would have you wise in Romans 16, 19, I would have you wise unto that which is good and simple concerning evil. And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. Stay close to him. Your safety is being wise about what's good and simple about what's evil. Do you know nowhere in the scripture does the Bible magnify the devil? It informs, but it doesn't go to the place that it just expounds. There's information, not exposition, about the devil in the Word of God. Why? Because God says He wants you to be wise about what's good, and He wants you to be simple about what's evil. We're not ignorant of his devices, but we're not taken up with them to the point of intense curiosity. Had a lady in the first church I pastored, she f for whatever reason, I don't know if she was saved, to be honest, but she got this fascination with the devil and she studied in the Bible and studied for months about it And nearly lost her mind in her life. And I believe it was simply because she got infatuated with darkness. Hey, if I know there's a rattlesnake in the weeds, I'm not going to inspect every weed to find the snake. I'm just gonna stay out of the weeds. Now that may be simple, but the truth of the matter is, we know the devil's real. Stay close to the Lord. Your safety's in him. You're no match for the devil. Don't be a fool and and make these bold statements about the devil, because you and I are no match for him. But the master is. Jesus met him face to face in the wilderness temptation and defeated him with nothing more than thus saith the Lord. And you and I, beloved, need to find a place of nearness and just stay close to the shepherd, because I'll tell you where the wolves won't go. The wolves don't go around the shepherd. They know better. The shepherd will put them out of commission. Stay near the Lord. Well, Father, I pray you'll use your word now and just do as you please