Won't you take your Bible please and turn to Revelation chapter six? Revelation chapter six. I'm going to read the entirety of the chapter in your hearing this evening, but we're only going to focus on the first eight verses. Revelation chapter number six, notice beginning in verse number one. And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals. And I heard, as it were, the noise of thunder, one of the four beasts saying, Come and see. And I saw and behold a white horse, and he that sat on him had a bow. And a crown was given unto him. And he went forth conquering and to conquer. And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second beast say, Come and see. And there went out another horse that was red, and power was given to him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another. And there was given unto him a great sword. And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beast say, Come and see. And I beheld him know a black horse, and he that sat on him had a pair of balances in his hand. And I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts say, A measure of wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley for a penny, and see thou hurt not the oil and the wine. And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth beast say, Come and see. And I looked, and behold, a pale horse, and he and his name that sat on him was death, and hell followed with him. And power was given unto them over the fourth part of the earth, to kill the with sword and with hunger and with death and with the beast of the earth. And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God, and for the testimony which they held. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? And white robes were given unto every one of them. And it was said unto them that they should rest yet for a little season. Until their fellow servants also and their brethren that should be killed as they were should be fulfilled And I beheld, when he had opened the sixth seal, and there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became as blood. And the stars of heaven fell under the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs when she is shaken of a mighty wind. And the heaven departed as a scroll when it's rolled together, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bondman, and every free man hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains. Said to the mountains and rocks, fall on us and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of his wrath is come, and who shall be able to stand? What a sobering portion of Scripture. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us this evening, please. Father, once more we come into your presence. We certainly need thy help. We ask that you would do the work that's needed in our hearts. Lord, would you open the eyes of our understanding? We thank you for the Word of God. We thank you for the privilege not only just to read it. But the privilege that we have to study it and understand it. Be our teacher, O Lord, and we'll thank you for all that you do. Lord, again, please hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus For it's in his mighty name we pray, and God's people said Amen. Well, I I trust you realize as we have been studying together that we are now in an entirely different scenario. We're in a different scene. Up until this point we've been in the heavenlies. We've been in heaven itself. We've been looking at the worship of the Lamb. We've been looking at the worthy Lamb. We've been looking at that heavenly scene that is a a scene of of worship before the Lord. But now we've come to this earth. And now we're not looking at the worship of the Lamb, but we're looking at the wrath of the Lamb. The judgment of God is being turned loose. It is not, and I and I want you to notice this as we start this chapter in verse number six or verse number one of chapter number six. Notice what the Bible records. And I saw when the Lamb Opened one of the seals. The Lamb opened the seal. It wasn't the Antichrist that opened the seal. It wasn't the devil who opened the seal. It wasn't mankind that opened the seal. It was the Lamb The Lord was the one who opened the seal. I want to remind you as we continue to study through this area of judgment That even in judgment, he's still on the throne. He's still the one in charge. He's the one that is releasing or unloosing this judgment upon the earth. Now, as we study through this, we're going to see these four horsemen. And I'm going to spend the time this evening looking at those four horsemen. But there are seven seals in this section. There also will follow seven trumpets and seven vials. Three series of judgments that are that are released, if you will, upon the earth Now, the events recorded under these seals, under these seven seals, I believe are simply an extension of things that are already evident in the world. They're already in play. The loosing of the seals or the sending forth these horsemen is simply the restraining or the removal of the restraining hand of God and God letting judgment come to fruition. He's letting it come to the to full full bloom, if you will. In these judgments, all restraint is gone. The church is in heaven. There's no holding back the flood tide of evil. And what we see is that pouring out, if you will, of the wrath of the Lamb. The horses that are that are here, I believe, are symbolic in nature. The horse in the Bible is often used as a symbol of war When a horse goes forth, it's going forth to war. In the Old Testament, especially in the Psalms, we're told that we don't trust in horses. We don't trust in that battle equipment, but we trust in the Lord. So that horse represents that battle equipment, if you will, the sending forth of war. You say, what's happening here in this chapter? This rebellion of man is being met with a war from God, the wrath of the Lamb. The horse here, the horseman rather are not necessarily persons. But they are personifications of some evil that is to come. They represent the judgment of God. Now let's quickly look at these, if we will, tonight, and I want you to notice the first horse, and he's called the white horse. He says in verses two, uh rather just verse two, I saw and behold a white horse. By the way, every horse Is preceded by an invitation. Come see. Come and see. Only the four horses are are are Invited, we're invited to come see. When we get to the other three seals, he doesn't use that same terminology, but he wants you to behold these. He wants you to slow down and pay attention. Come and see what these horses bring. The Bible says the white horse, he that sat on him, had a bow and a crown, and a crown was given unto him, and he went forth conquering and to conquer. What does he represent? I want to remind you of something here that first keep in mind that each of these horses cast a shadow on the earth. Each of these horses are casting a shadow. You say, preacher, are the horses loose on the earth today? No, they're not loose on the earth today, but their shadows are looming over the horizon. That shadow is deepening and darkening on the horizon. No, they're not riding yet, because I'm telling you, what these horsemen release will be like nothing this world's ever known We're not here yet. We're not there yet. But their shadow is cast. Each of these horses represent a judgment from God on rebellious man. You know the mercy of God. There's going to come a day when there's no mercy to be found. We need to remember that the mercy of God ought not to be played with. Men play with the mercy of God. God's merciful. The Bible says He's even kind to evil men. He makes it rain on the just and the unjust. Every morning you wake up, the sun rises, he crowns that day with new mercies. But there's coming a day when the mercy of God will no longer be available. Men are going to cry, we read here, for mountains and rocks to fall on us and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. There's no mercy to go run to. There's no mercy to hide in. It's just simply the judgment of God. I want to say right off of the bat, if you're not saved, my friend, I wouldn't wait another minute. I wouldn't wait another second. I would get right with God while the opportunity is available because the mercy of God will not always be available. Each and by the way, God does save rebels, but He doesn't save them in rebellion. I'm glad God saved Rebel because I was one. For God's mercy reached me. But He won't save a man with a bald-up fist and a stiffened heart and say, no, no, no. Man must bow himself, yield himself. Each of these horsemen are destructive and somewhat descriptive. We see the shadows now, but the substance will be far worse. I'm going to borrow Dr. John Phillips' outline because I don't think there's a better one around. And I want to look at these four horsemen and I'll use his outline or his descriptions of these and share them with you. I want you to notice that the first horse Represents the blasphemous philosophies of the last days. Some have said this man is the man of sin. I don't believe it is On the white horse. Others have said it must be Jesus because he's riding a white horse in the end. But I want you to notice that he's going with a bow that has no arrows. I'll tell you, a bow with no arrows is is no good. You don't fight with a bow with no arrows. I mean i it it only is effective as a weapon if it's got an arrow It also you see here that he had a crown and he goes forth to conquer, or he goes forth conquering and to conquer. So he's successful, he's victorious as he rides out in judgment. Now I want you to think about what he's doing. Here is that conquering without an arrow, conquering without a war, conquering without a battle. What sharper than a sword, but a pen and a tongue? The ideologies of man that is anti-God in nature is a war against God and a judgment from God. You think about the ideologies that turn men against the Lord. You think about the mindsets that corrupt our culture and corrupt mankind. You can start with the with perhaps one of the oldest uh influences that was birthed in hell, and that is the idea of communism. You move forward into humanism. We come to this teaching of evolution and situational ethics Moral freedom, and by that I mean the freedom to do whatever feels good, whatever we think is good, whatever we think is right. Sexual perversions, the anti -Christ and anti-Christian spirit. Folks, I I I don't know if you realize how strong that is in the world we live in today. There is a growing hatred for the things of God and for this Bible. There is an increasing spirit that says, uh you know, I'm against it, I'm against it. And uh even this uh uh this idea of of uh these ri rehabilitating fundamentalists There's a spirit in that thing, and I I know there's a lot of things that have been done wrong, but I'm going to tell you something. There's a spirit in that thing that hates everything that Jesus Christ represents. And that's the spirit that that we find here, that white horse going forth to conquer. Socialism, one world governance, this death culture, this culture of death Whether it be pro-suicide or personal suicide or uh medically assisted suicide or whatever you want to label it. this culture of death, of being in charge of our lives. I'm at the helm of the ship. I've got news for you. Man may think he's at the helm of the ship, but the Lord is still on the throne. Deified humanity. We live in a day where man thinks he's God, sets himself up as God. You know what these are? These are the the judgments of God coming forth in the shadow of that white horse. He's riding and he's riding our direction, and as he does, that shadow falls over our culture and peoples, and and we begin to see this mentality, this ideology. And it's going to get to the point That man will believe a lie. He'll be sent strong delusion. He'll believe the lie of the devil. He'll go along with the Antichrist, the man of sin. And my Bible says that he'll not have a chance to be saved after that That the door will be shut, that white horse. Then the Bible goes on to talk about the red horse, verse four And there went out another horse that was red, and power was given to him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth, and that, notice this, they should kill one another. And there was given unto him a great sword. This red horse, the white horse represents blasphemous philosophies. The red horse represents belligerent policies of the last days. Now think about this with me. This horse personifies war on a scale we've not known. Go back real quick. We have to look at this in Matthew 24. And I want you to see what the Lord Jesus told us about the last days. Matthew chapter number 24. Go down to verse number six with me, if you would, please. Matthew chapter twenty-four and verse number six. Here's what our Lord said, and ye shall hear of wars, and rumors of wars. See that ye be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet For a nation shall rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom, and there shall be famines, pestilence, earthquakes in diverse places. I want you to notice something There's going to be that saber rattling of international conflict. And where does that come from? It comes from the belligerent policies of men. International turmoil is going to give way to war, and it's going to give way to a war that is going to be on a scale we've not seen. I read one writer, and he said that I believe that what wars are coming upon the land, World War I and II, are going to look like a minor disagreement. Compared to what's about to fall on the earth. Now, those are the worst things we've ever witnessed, or we know anything about historically. But compared to what's to come, church, there's actually no comparison. There's going to be these policies giving way to war. Notice what it will bring. It says they'll kill one another. What are they killing each other for? They're killing each other over their policies and disagreements and so on. Do you realize that each year there's an increasing number of people die from war? 2024 saw a 30% increase from the previous year. 30%. 233,000 people died in war. Actual combat. 233,000. 61,000 were killed as civilians who were caught in the crossfire, somewhere in the middle. As this red horse rides. He's not out of the stall yet, but his shadow is over the land. You and I are living in a powder keg society. Nation against nation. Wars and rumors of wars. These are standing up. These are stand War and you say, yeah, but we've been here before, but perhaps never at this level. We're standing literally with our toes on the edge of the water. That horse is about to ride, church And when he rides, there's going to be an unleashing of turmoil like never been seen ever before. Let me say quickly, there's another horse about to ride. We have the white horse and the red horse. This is the black horse. And you'll notice he's described here In Revelation chapter number six, and it says that when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beast say, Come and see. And I beheld, and lo a black horse, and he that sat on him had a pair of balances in his hand. And I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts say, A measure of wheat for a penny, three measures of barley for a penny And see thou hurt not the oil and the wine. I want you to notice that. This horse represents blotted prosperity. Blotted prosperity You say, what are you talking about? We're talking about a famine, an economic disaster, all the while the luxuries of the rich go untouched. The oil and the wine in the Bible are the luxuries of the rich. They're what the wealthy possess. They represent those that are living in luxury, the oil and wine. They're living in plenty. But in the midst of their plenty, there is a famine and economic disaster taking place. Dr. Phillips wrote these words. I wanted to read it verbatim. In the days to come, famine and inflation will wreak such havoc that a daily wage will only buy enough food to simply satisfy. Sound familiar? Does it not seem that we are rapidly drifting that direction? Or the black horse sitting out of the stall, but his shadow is coming over the land. And as his shadow comes across the land, know this, there will come a day, there will come a day that there will be such famine and an economic reversal. That the earth is going to rock and reel from all of this devastation. A vast majority of people are going to perish in this. While the wealthy go untouched for a time. Do you realize that in 2024 733 million people faced a hunger crisis? You say, well, that's just a number. Ponder that a minute. 733 million people. Two billion people uh face something they call food insecurity. No regular access to nutritious food. I I got to thinking about how much food's available in our country. And I thought, I wonder how much we throw away. You listen to this? Forty million tons of food is wasted every year. That's about 80 billion pounds. That's 40% of our food. Is thrown out in the trash. Forty percent of our food? Do you realize there's people around the world? That to eat what you had for breakfast would feed them maybe days What you had for lunch. You say, why are you saying that? I'm saying, my friend, while we live in our little bubble of protection, the rest of the world is living a reality foreign to us. And and and this black horse, when he begins to ride, he's been given permission, he's been given orders, instruction, the judgment of God. That this inflation is going to rise and the food is going to be scarce and great suffering is going to come. Now, immediately someone might say, But preacher, what kind of God does that? Let me remind you. This is man wreathing what he sung. This is man getting in return those very things that he asked for when he lifted his hands in rebellion and said, You'll not rule over me. This is man choosing his sin over the Savior. This is what man is inviting when he disobeys and goes contrary to the will of God. Listen, dear friend, it always pays to listen to the Lord. The Lord does know the way. I think about old Elijah. And by the way, there was a great famine in his day There was a famine, the drought had destroyed the crops, and the people were starving and hungry. And you remember when he got to the little widow's house, even she was about ready to die to eat their last meal and go be with the Lord That yet God, in a miracle way, in a miraculous way, provided for Elijah, and provided for the widow, and provided for her son. I just want to remind you that we serve a God who can provide. When the brooks dry up, when the food's scarce, when the drought comes, when listen, he's a God who takes care of his own. Now you don't always see the way. We don't know the way, but I'm glad he's able to make a way. God can feed his little children in the midst of a wilderness. He don't need a supermarket, he don't need a farmer, he don't need anything, he's the God who can say, give him manna, and manna comes. You say, where'd that come from? Came from God. He's the one that provided it. He's the one that can make water where there's no water in a desert, by the way. It's not accessible. But yet God can make water flow in a desert He can make rivers flow where there's no rivers to be found. You know why? Because that's the kind of God he is. I want to remind you that the God we serve is an awfully good God. He's very merciful God. And man to look at this and say, well, what kind of God would do that needs to look in the mirror and say, what kind of man would reject him? What kind of man would turn? How depraved must our hearts be? How lost and blind and dead in sin must mankind really be? You see, I don't think we understand the gravity of our sin or the gravity of the deadness of our spiritual man. It takes a miracle to get saved. It's not something you work up, it's not something I work up. It's not some little magic thing that we uh you know rubber rock and it comes out. I'm telling you, it's a miracle of God that a dead man can live, that a lost man can be saved. That a person who's in his transgression can be turned to God and be born again from above. If you're saved, you ought to thank God right now you're just saved. Because there's absolutely no other reason but mercy and grace. You can't sit here and say I did it or done this. You can't claim anything but being lost and helpless and hopeless. All you did was cast yourself at his feet for mercy, and here come mercy and grace. They met and kissed, and they kissed over you, and they won you, brought you into the family of God. Salvations of the Lord, church. Always has been and always will be. But when this horse rides, can you imagine what suffering is going to come on the scene We come to our final horse, and he's the pale horse. Verse 7 it says, And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth beast say, Here he is again, come and see. And I looked, and behold a pale horse, and his name that sat on him was death, and hell followed with him. And power was given unto them over the fourth part of the earth to kill with sword and with hunger and with death. And with the beast of the earth. Now you think about this. This horse is the only horse that we know the rider's name. His name's Death. He has power to kill a fourth part of the earth. He's going to do it with with sword, war, hunger. And that word death that's used here is actually the word for pestilence. That's actually the word for pestilence and with beasts. That first horse represented the blasphemous philosophies. That red horse represented the belligerent policies. That black horse represented blighted prosperity, but this fourth horse He represents baneful pestilences of the last days. As if the famine, as if the war, as if all of that was not enough, now the diseases break out. A new threat arises. You know, I think man's got in his mind that somehow he'll eliminate disease with his medicine. I believe men think that But what we don't realize is that many of our medicines are strengthening diseases that are making it even more difficult to conquer. And not only are we seeing that, but we're seeing modern man feverishly work. And what's he doing? He's trying to weaponize bacteria. He's trying to take and create chemical warfare and and these biological weapons, and I'll tell you what, all the ingredients are in place. It only takes the right circumstances to set it in motion. I mean, it's just all there. It's just all the players have got to be put in the right position. And then we'll see that pale horse begin to ride. I'm interested in that statement. This intrigued me as I studied with the beast of the earth. And a lot of commentaries, when you read that, either they they skip over it. Usually it's pretty good if they skip over it. But sometimes they speculate concerning it. And boy, Brother Andy, I read some pretty wild speculation about what these beasts of the earth are. But being simple like I am, when I read beasts of the earth, that just means beasts that are here. It's not something that's foreign or something that's that 's going to come that we don't know anything about. It says clearly the beasts of the earth. And so I thought, well, I ought to look and see if there's been a rise in vicious attacks from the animals that we already have, and lo and behold. 2023, they released a study that said since 1950, carnivorous animal attacks are steadily increasing. Steadily increasing. And here's what they say. It could be that we're moving into their territory. It could be that they're getting more adjusted to mankind and are looking at us more as prey than predator. It could be, and this one's always thrown in there, climate change, they always got to throw that in. They said we really don't know Do you know what I really believe and and I you know, you don't have to believe what I believe, but I'm gonna tell you, I believe it's the shadow of the pale horse It's the shadow of the pale horse that's being cast over the land. And the Lord's reminding us that He's coming. It may not be what we think. I I found this interesting that a rat carries fleas that carries thirty-five different diseases. A flea. You can't hardly see a flea. Was it not in the 14th century that the bubonic plague was spread by these fleas and a quarter of the population died? It i it it's not a big thing and now uh that I forget the name of the disease, but there's fear that those little prairie dogs ca carry some sort of disease on them, uh the fleas on them carry that disease. And if they bite you you get it whatever. Now look, I'm not fear-mongering. I'm not saying, oh man, you ought to be afraid of every little thing. I'm just telling you that God's judgment is building on the horizon. And when you look out yonder and you look down the road, if you've got enough sense to look around besides what's going on today, you've got to understand that the judgment of God is swiftly coming. These horses are getting ready to be unleashed from the stall. And when they begin to ride, what I've just described to you, though we know it in part, we know it in part. We know something about these ideologies that are being put in place. And we know something about these policies that are causing international tension. And we know something about famine, and we know something about pestilence and and this thing of death stalking man. We know something about that, but we don't know anything on the scale it is about to come. We don't know what it's going to be like when these horsemen begin to ride across the land. The similarities of the present are no coincidence. But I'll tell you what they are. They're gracious warnings. They're gracious warnings. Friend, these seals And a lot of people, I'm not going to get bogged down here because there's a lot of information we don't have. God didn't give us intricate detail. But he gave us enough information so that we would be aroused and alarmed and awakened. He gave us enough information to let us know in our heart judgment's coming. He gave us enough information to remind us we need to wake up and hear the gracious warnings of God because the signs are all around us. The indications are building, the sky is blackening and darkening, and the clouds are thickening, and friend, the Lord is coming. You say, what are you preaching this for? I'm preaching it for this reason. My friend, listen. Rather than grapple over the hidden. We need to grasp what's been revealed. We need to understand that God is saying, My judgment's coming. My judgment's coming. The horses are going to be released upon the land. And friend, listen, if you're not saved, you need to be saved. You need to be ready to meet the Lord. Prepare to meet thy God. I'm not saying all of this to stir a emotionally stirring or feeling, but I'm trying to present you with the facts that the reality is God's judgment lies somewhere in the future. And when that judgment comes, there'll be no getting saved. There'll be no opportunity for you who've heard the gospel of Jesus Christ to turn and be born again. Your opportunities now. Now is the accepted time. Today is the day of salvation. If you're not saved you need to be. If all you've got's a church membership, throw it out the window If all you've got's a little water on your body, you need to toss that aside. If all you've got's a little prayer you pray, but you know deep down your heart's dead and trespasses and sin. You need to repent of sin, believe on Jesus Christ, and get born again. You need to get ready. Listen, if you're not saved, that you don't have a promise of tomorrow. You don't have a promise the next day, the next hour, or the next second. And you need to get right with God. Be ready. The Lord's coming. Oh, listen, we need to sense the urgency again. People sit in church and they're and they're warned, hey, it's coming. It's coming. He's coming. Judgment's coming. And they yawn and say, I've heard it my whole life. But there's going to come a day when the reality of that will unfold, when the day will dawn when judgment is set And God alone has established that time. And I'm just trying to urge you tonight to understand this is an urgent matter. If you're not ready, you're lost. And you're dead in your trespasses and sin. And my friend, if you enter into the judgment of God, there's no hope for your soul. There's no hope. You must be born again. If I was lost, listen, if I was lost. I wouldn't play my uh games of my soul another minute. I wouldn't do it another second. I'd get I would I would find a place of prayer and cry out to the Lord. And I remember preaching about the coming of the Lord, and somebody got up and they went out back. And I didn't think nothing of it. I thought they went to the restroom. I found out later that week, they said I couldn't wait any longer to get saved, and so I went out in the coat room, nailed down, kneeled down under where the uh coats hung up, and I asked the Lord to save me. Well hallelujah, that's an order. Well listen, if you're not saved and realize you need to be, now's the moment to get right with God Don't put it off any longer. Salvation is such a critical matter. Listen, the judgment of God is coming and you need to get ready. Isn't it funny we get ready for everything but the Lord We get ready for everything. We get ready to go somewhere. We get ready. Right I know that's dying in our culture, but most people get ready. They comb their hair and change their clothes and all that business and they get ready to go. We get ready if we're going to go on vacation. We go through all the things. My wife makes a list. She's a master list maker. And I've learned in these thirty some years that if it's not on the list, it ain't going. Every once in a while I say, put me on that list. Make sure I'm on that list. And then if I remember something that needs to go on that list, I say, put that there. And every once in a while I she don't like her list messed with, by the way. But but I'll I'll draw what it is I want her to take. I don't write it. She don't like my drawing. So I draw a big old picture. This is what I want you to get or to take because we need to take it. There's a list, church. It's called the Lamb's Book of Life. If your name's not on the list, you ain't going. You're not ready. You need to get ready. Take it serious, friend. Take it serious. Your soul hangs in the balance. Your eternity hangs in the balance Jesus Christ died on Calvary's Hill. He shed his precious blood. He made a way for every man to be born again He paid your sin debt. He paid the penalty in full. He calls you to come. He invites you to come. The Spirit of God says, come. And oh my friend, don't raise a stiff heart or a bald-up fist and say no to God. You're choosing a place called hell. You're headed for a place of judgment. Know this. He loved you. He gave himself for you. He'll save you in a moment of time. Thank God for his mercy. Taste and see that the Lord is good. If you're not ready, get ready. But can I talk to us who are saved? We ought to be busy reaching others In the light of the coming of these horsemen, what else are we going to do There's a lot of people preparing to live somewhere God never intended for them to live. I believe we ought to use some wisdom, but listen to me. God don't want you to find a cave somewhere and go live in it. Stock up all your food and ammunition, just hold out and say, Jesus, come get me. If he had wanted you to live that way, he'd have taken you to heaven the moment he saved you. The Bible tells me he left me to be hit to be salt and to be light. He left you and I here because there's others that need to be reached. Do you know the Lord could have mercifully let the birds do the job and they'd done better than we? He let the birds. I was sitting in my chair and had the windows open this afternoon and and I was listening and and there were about fifteen varieties of birds that were singing and going to the birdbath, going to the bird feeder, back and forth and back and forth. And man, they were just, they seemed to be happy as they could be as they were out there getting ready for the storm. And I thought, you know, the Lord could have put the gospel in their little mouth. And as they flew from branch to branch, they could have cried, Jesus saves, Jesus saves, Jesus saves. But the Lord didn't do that. Would it not be difficult to receive a message from something you could not understand in that sense or that you could not relate with? But man, when you see a person that you know was broken by sin and lost and hellbound, and they say, let me tell you what happened to me Let me tell you how Jesus saved me. Let me tell you what he did in my life. Let me tell you the miracle work of grace that he wrought in me. Don't that get your attention and make you think that if God can do it for them, he can do it for me? I'm here to tell you, you and I need to be busy reaching others. Our gospel needs to be spread to the four corners of the earth. You say, preacher, I don't go to the four corners, but you go to a corner. You go to a portion of the earth. There's people that you'll cross paths with that nobody none of us, others of us that will. There may be people you rub shoulders with that nobody else is going to rub shoulders with. There's somebody that you're going to be able to influence and point to the Lord Jesus Christ. Are we reaching them? If we'd just get as worried about their souls or as we are about their party affiliation as politics, we'd have revival. If we just get concerned about people where people are going to spend eternity as to what they're going to do when they get in the ballot box, we would have revival. If we just get broken over the reality that every man I meet is a soul going somewhere, every person I see is going to live forever somewhere. They're either going to heaven or hell. And I might be their last red light on the way to hell. I might be the last one. I can still hear old Dr. Percy Ray. He came in our community years ago, set up a tent, preached all summer long, birthed six churches that summer. Six churches. Every one of them still going. Every one of them still preaching the gospel. God was saving souls, but he had preached a message on the red light to hell. Very unconventional. Most Baptist churches would throw him out because they thought he was crazy. But when he walked through that congregation with that old train light, remember the old the old uh Well I said use it and a thing would had it he had it red and he'd walk and he just walked through and he'd stop right in front of you. Center, is this your last red light? Is this your last opportunity? He'd walk off. You say, well, I wouldn't do that. Well, you're not as near worried about souls as that dear man was You don't have the burden that that man had. He wanted to see men saved and reached with the gospel of Jesus Christ. As he walked through that place. He challenged man, do you know it nearly every well now every one of those pastors of those churches were saved in that meeting? That was God. Yeah. That wasn't that man. Nobody knew him. Nobody they thought, you know, who's this crazy man from Mississippi putting a tent up in our town? And if you know anything about mountain people, if you come from anywhere else, you're an outsider And you're suspect. You're just plain old suspect. Whatever you say, think, or do is suspect. And listen, that's the way it was, but God the Holy Ghost was up to something. And this man was warning sinners, don't go to hell. He was warning sinners you need to be saved. Listen, friend, you don't have to stand on a platform and preach. You can carry a gospel track in your pocket. You don't have to stand in a class and expound the gospel with an open Bible. You can give your testimony in the supermarket as you push your little grocery buggy down the aisle. There's opportunities abounding all around us. People need the Lord. And if we'd get busy about reaching people with the gospel, a whole lot of our troubles would fall by the wayside. I believe a lot of God's people just fuss, fight, and quarrel because they're not busy doing what God's called them to do. I read the story about fishermen who fight. That was the title of it, and that got my attention. I like to fish. I don't like to fight, but I like to fish. And it said fishermen who fought. And this daddy wrote an article about taking his boy and his boy's friend, taking those two boys fishing. But it rained And so they got stuck in this camper for three days, I believe it rained. And he said, you know what? Here's what I discovered. He said, first day them boys were good. Second day they start getting on each other's nerves. He said third day all I did was separate the two because they were duking it out every time I turned around He said they were fighting. And here's what he said. When fishermen don't fish, they fight. And you know what I thought in my heart? Sound like Baptists to me. When Baptists don't fish, they fight. When Baptists aren't work I mean when Christians aren't concerned about souls, they get concerned about things that don't make a row of pens. or a hill of beans and and they begin to quarrel and tangle. I'm just here to tell you, beloved, we need to get busy. There's people sitting out here in their homes, on their jobs, around you and I, and they need to be saved. They need to be saved. At least you say, but preacher, I don't I don't talk good to people. I'm backward. I'm I'm shy. Fill your pocket with tracks. Fill your pocket with tracks. That track r that track rack's been out probably what, a month now, I guess. I can't remember Ben when it was put up, but whenever it was put up, it's been a month, three weeks anyway, and and there's probably about ten tracks gone from it. Ten tracks in a church this size. Now maybe you buy your tracks. I'm going to give you the benefit of the doubt, because love thinketh no evil. But I'm going to warn you, dear friend, there's somebody out there counting on you to carry the gospel to them. There's somebody out there that needs you to get concerned enough to say, hey, you need to be saved. You say, preacher, people don't take tracks no more. I'm going to tell you, people don't give tracks no more. I was in a drive-thru, I handed the girl a tract and she said, What's that? I said, It's good news. It's a gospel tract. It also tells you about the little church I attend. We'd sure love to have you come. A gospel track. I mean she was so she didn't know at all what it was. She was probably eighteen, nineteen, twenty years old. She had no clue what it was And I thought, how can you live in a county like this with as many Baptist churches as we've got and somebody not give you a tract Church, we need to get serious about what's serious. We need to get on fire about what's important. People need the Lord. And as we look at the coming judgment, we need to realize that our opportunity to point people to Jesus is just about over. And we need to be busy about our Father's business. You ever thought about what would matter to the Lord if he was alive today? I mean living on this earth. Well, I got news for you, he is. He's living in you. I mean, you who are saved. That's where he lives. What's he interested in? Do you think he's all upset about the stock market? Do you think he's wringing his hands over inflation? Do you think he's following politics with bated breath? Do you do you think that he's concerned about the color of carpet the church you attend? Do you think he's all tore up about what this one said or that one said? Oh no, I'll tell you what he's concerned about. He come to seek and to save that which was lost And beloved, the heart of God beats for those who need the Lord. And you and I need to remember we can send all the money we want to overseas, but if we're not reaching our Jerusalem, we're just slowly dying. We're slowly dying. People need the Lord. They need him across the way here. They need him over here. Aren't you glad somebody told you? Every one of you who are saved, somebody told you. I don't know who it is, but somebody told you. Might have been your parents, might have been your grandparents, might have been a neighbor. My dear brother, one of our missionaries up in the state of Maine, Brother Todd Bell, his his dad was basically an alcoholic, a functioning, working alcoholic. And had a neighbor move in one day. And the first thing that they lived on that street for many years. And that neighbor said, I need to go tell them about Jesus. And that neighbor knocked on the door and said, Mr. Bell, I'd like for you to go to church with me. He thought, that's funny. He said, uh nobody's invited me to church. And he said, I think I'll just go. Well he just went. And he just got saved. And God changed his life. And listen, you say, would that have happened if that man hadn't to come along? I don't know, but here's what I do know. God used that man who came along. He said that that man needs to be saved. Now, there was nothing about that man that would make him an inviting neighbor until he got saved. He he was he I mean listen if you know uh uh alcohol gives men courage they don't really have inside. It also gives them a loose tongue that they don't have. And he was a horrible neighbor. But that man said, he needs the Lord. Now you know what would have been easier to do, build a fence and put no trespass and say, stay on your side, Turkey. That'd been the easy thing to do. But you know what? He knew that man needed to be saved. Now he had no clue. That man had no clue that God would not only save him, but he'd save his boy and make him a missionary And use him to plant churches in the Northeast. He didn't know that. He just knew this man needed the Lord. Can I ask you something? Who needs the Lord? And who is it that you need to take the gospel to? Every one of us have an opportunity to reach others. Let me close with this thought. We need to realize who's in control. God holds this lamb holds the latch on the gate for these horsemen. He'll be the one that loses it. He's he's in charge. And I don't know about you, but it does my heart real good to know he's in charge. There's a lot of men think they're in charge today. There's a lot of men think that they they're calling the shots, they're gonna turn the tide, they're gonna fix the uh let me tell you something. The Lord's the one in charge. And I don't care what we do, if the Lord determines otherwise, guess what's going to be done? He's the one that's going to turn the horses loose. He's going to set them. That's why I say don't lose sight of the revelation of Jesus Christ. Don't lose sight of the reality that what we're reading about, because if you're a Christian, you want the devil to do, he'll fill your heart with fear He'll get you listening and you'll open the paper and say, i i in the morning you'll say, Oh, preacher's talking about that. Look how the economy is going. Oh no, how are we going to make it? Oh look at that new disease that's just been discovered. And oh no, you reckon I'll get it? Any hypochondriacs in here? You know what's weird? When I read about a new disease, do you ever start You know I've been feeling weird lately. Right? Anybody else like that? Alright, well I'll I'll be the odd one. I'll be the odd one. My wife used to tell, you can't talk to that fella. Nobody here. She said, you can't talk to him, because he is a master hypochondriac. And she said, every time you talk to him, you've got the same symptoms he's got. So stop talking to him, okay? And uh I'm just kidding, but but it you know it it is weird. But but you know what? We've got to remember something The Lamb has his hand on the horses. It's the Lamb who's going to set them out. And by the way, it's the Lamb that's got his hand on you. It's the Lamb that you serve and worship and bow before. He's the one who's in control. Realize that. When you read the paper, when you hear the news, when you look on the internet, just know this. That lamb's still on the throne He'll open the seals, he'll release the judgment, and he'll look after his own. He's still on the throne. He's still on the throne. Are you ready to face him? Are you ready to face him? One day it'll be too late to get ready Are you ready? I pray you are. If you're listening to this broadcast, maybe you're in your home, your car, maybe you're in a a care facility, a nursing home, or a hospital. And you're not saved. Let me give you good news. You don't have to be in a church house to be born again. You don't have to get dressed and get ready and come to church and get on an altar and pray. Right where you are. You may be so weak you can't lift your head, but you can lift your voice. Or maybe you can only whisper or cry out from the depths of your heart. It's not the formulation of words. It's that cry or plea for mercy. Call on him while you can, while you have presence of mind. Say, Lord, save me, and I've got good news for you. He specializes in saving sinners. He'll stop by your way. It might be in a nursing home. It might be in a hospital bed. It might be on the side of the road. You might be in a house of iniquity. And my friend, just leaving some old dirty, rotten place of sin. But if you'll call on Jesus Christ, he'll save you this moment, because that's what he does. Call on him. Get ready. And dear Christian, stop wasting your time. Let's stop playing games with the pitdly things of time and let's start living with the big things of eternity. Let's get let's help others get ready. Let's tell them about the Lord. Get the gospel in your heart. Get the gospel on your mind. Get the gospel in your lips and get it in your hand. And go to it. Go to it. Go to it. Put tracks everywhere you go. Let people know they need to be saved. And then realize He's in control. Go home and go to bed tonight. After you prayed and talked to the Lord. Put your head on your pillar and go to sleep and know whatever comes tomorrow he's on the throne. Get up in the morning and face the day and know he's on the throne. Understand that when you go about your way, he's still God. The Lamb's on the throne. It's the Lamb who's holding the keys. He's the one in charge. And praise him for it. And press on. Church, it ain't gonna be long. It will not be long. Let's stand together. I want to